 
 Adventurous? You've got the wrong girl, Mister. You should know that by now. Her eyes study him.    Assessing something as he pours himself four fingers. 
 FRED (CONT'D) I like how you don't talk about him. 
 That why I get so many chances to not do it? 
 FRED (CONT'D) I'll bet he knew that. First time he met you. 
 He thought I hated him.      He never knew I was fascinated. 
 (without turning) The first time I met her she sat in that chair. The secretary doesn't know whether to write that down.   And still with his back to her... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) You may as well write it down, Mary. Write it all down. Even the parts that are confused or graceless or boring. He turns with a soft smile to put her at ease. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) We'll see if I remember how to edit. She smiles back. She likes him, as much as her level of being awed by him permits. She begins to write, as... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I'd kept her waiting two hours. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) She was a person who cherished her privacy and was devoting her life to social work. And there I was... His smile is kind.   And honestly self-mocking. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Self-obsessed. Wallowing in the glory of my authors and celebrity acquaintances. A vain, fast- talking, manipulator. But then I guess you know all that, don't you? She looks up reproachfully.   Nothing of the kind, and you know it. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Oh, yes. And the kind of man who fishes for compliments. He's made her laugh. 
 (V.O.) The waiting made her furious. She undoubtedly felt I was 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Actually, I hadn't given her a thought. Oblivious as usual. Which, perhaps, was even worse. Now, SKYWARD by ADM. RICHARD BYRD. Photos of the explorer preparing for his flight over the North Pole. One of Byrd with George himself, displaying considerable gravitas. 
 (V.O.) I figured he'd be pompous. Her eye travels over the stack of books. Adventurers, explorers, celebrities. On an end table, a framed photo of George with the great Lindbergh. A pretty SECRETARY comes to summon her. Amelia rises, smooths the wrinkles from her brown suit. They head down the corridor. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I knew, of course, that he wasn't going to choose me. I had no discernible qualifications whatsoever. They reach the door, already ajar. It says GEORGE PALMER PUTNAM on a small bronze plate. The secretary gingerly pushes it open... ...revealing George on the phone in crisp shirtsleeves and suspenders. He paces, prowls, trailing the cord behind him, negotiating non-stop even as he flips through a pile of messages. Off again, stalking the room. Dashing, electric, masterful. 
 (V.O) But to be rejected by this... parasite. A man who had given up any life of his own to flutter near the famous. He glances up, realizing for the first time that she is there. Sit, please. But she doesn't. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I didn't know whether to laugh or throw something at the jerk. He gestures again, more commandingly. Sit. She doesn't move, she doesn't smile. She doesn't take her steady gaze from him. He hangs up the phone. They stare at each other for a frozen beat.   He breaks the moment with a charming smile... 
 Miss Earhart? 
 Mr. Putnam? GEORGE (softly) I asked you to sit. 
 Was that the thing you did with your hand? Sadly, I don't speak dog. His smile now only a trace.       But more genuine. 
 A            Ah.   Well, stand if you like. melia sits. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I'm told you want to fly the Atlantic Ocean. 
 I do. 
 In the 12 months since Lindbergh, 55 people in 18 planes have tried. Three planes made it. Fourteen people have died. 
 I'll make it. 
 Three women died trying. Two others escaped with their lives. If you do make it, you'd be the first. Which...is the real attraction for both of us, I suspect. She nods.    No smile. 
 Always nice to know what the real attraction is. His smile.    Beginning to enjoy this conversation. 
 The plane was bought from Adm. Byrd by Amy Guest, a socialite who wanted the record for herself. Her family wouldn't tolerate the danger. She has asked for a replacement... He gestures.   Perhaps you. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) ...who is American, educated, well- spoken, a flyer, preferably physically attractive... 
 Why would that matter? 
 Because she wants the world to pay attention. And pretty girls command more attention. 
 Was that your advice? 
 Sure. My role is selling this event to the public. There will be a contract for the girl's story with the New York Times. Also a book to be published over her name. Understood...?       G 
 EORGE (CONT'D) But all the money from these will go to Mrs. Guest. 
 Except for the part that goes to you. 
 Which will be as great as I can manage, I assure you. 
 You said she wants a flyer. 
 Don't get your hopes up. The celebrated Wilmer Stultz will be the pilot. There'll be a male co- pilot and navigator. The woman will be purely a passenger. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) That's good for your chances. Because your level of flying experience wouldn't place you anywhere near the group that would be considered for this. If the woman were to do any flying at all. No punches pulled.   Not his style. 
 Why would anyone want a book from a passenger? 
 Because the hook is that we're making the woman the commander. The pilot will sign a contract saying he is under her direction and control. It's her ship, her flight. 
 Good for my chances, you said. What are my chan... 
 The job's yours. She blinks.   Stunned speechless. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I chose you the moment you walked through the door. He smiles his charming smile.    Several phones are RINGING. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Now assuming my awful manners haven't soured you on the enterprise. May I give you a lift to the station? Amelia rises.   Is she pissed at being toyed with? 
 You're a busy man, Mr. Putnam.     I can find my way. The look holds.   He shrugs.   You probably can. 
 I honestly feel an apology is in order. 
 Fine.   What have I done? She watches his smile. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I didn't mind waiting. Caught up on my reading. Knitted a sweater. 
 I mean an apology.   For what's coming. His voice softens. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I'm going to be pretty controlling these next few months. How you dress, move, cut your hair. Speak in public. It's all part of the package we're selling. 
 We. 
 That's right. If you're not in there selling with me, it won't work. The smile turns friendly. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) You're the star. I'm no one at all. 
 Spoken like a gentleman. She steps up onto the train. Extends her hand like a man. He shakes it firmly. The train begins to move. She watches his cheery wave as she rolls away. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Of course a gentleman. Would have paid for my ticket. 
 (V.O.) Courage is the price that life exacts For granting peace We SUPERIMPOSE over her image the wall of a little girl's bedroom, filled with treasured NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS about women doctors, officials, bank presidents, women who had established themselves in positions previously thought to be available only to men. 
 (V.O.) The soul that knows it not Knows no release From little things 
 (V.O.) As the little red airplane passed by, it said something to me. Amelia beams.   She fills her lungs, transported. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I don't think I've ever stopped listening. HOLD on her, hair and uniform whipping in the breeze. 
 (V.O.) Ten years, 28 jobs and an unspeak- able number of crashes later, I hadn't changed my mind. She LIFTS the nose of the tiny craft.   Begins to CLIMB. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I even had my own plane. Bought with my last dime. At the apex of her climb, she FLIPS into a breathtaking LOOP THE LOOP, as... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Course in the early days of flying... ...her engine SPUTTERS. Then STALLS.    The plane DIPS into a TAIL-SPIN, PLUNGING downward... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...crashing was so common, you almost forgot it could kill you... Amelia STRUGGLING to start the engine, the little plane HURTLING toward earth, SPINNING as it goes. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...until it did. The engine COUGHS to life and at the last second she SWOOPS harrowingly above the ground to SOAR FREE. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Almost. 
 Got it.   I think. 
 Girls, this is Mr. Samuel Chapman. Sam, say hullo to the Octopus Club. The Octopus Club waves to Sam.   The adults wave, too. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) You're just in time. Alice has come through the Looking Glass, and things are getting, well... 
 (on cue) 
 They are, actually. She pats the grass beside her.   Sam has no choice but to sit. 
 And it's a secret. 
 Has to be. Competition, you know. Millionaire heiresses, hot shot girl pilots. If George knew I told you, he'd have me publicly flogged. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) So long as he could sell tickets. He's not smiling. 
 And no one else knows. 
 Marion. She's giving me a leave of absence. 
 I would think so. Your name will be in all the papers, and not just Boston. Denison House stands to come in for funding, national attention. 
 Specially if I don't make it. 
 Don't joke about that. She wasn't joking at all. 
 SAM (CONT'D) You'll make it. And then you'll have opportunities to work in aviation. Anywhere you want. She laughs. 
 Well, I'll have impressive credentials as a long-distance passenger. That's not exactly a career in aviation. She looks up at his eyes. 
 I         AMELIA (CONT'D) 'm not going anywhere, social work is my life. After all the years of false starts, I found the thing I'm meant to do. Keep walking.   She gives him time to say... 
 And where does that leave us? 
 You do love to look on the dark side. Whatever did you see in a sunny character like me? She gives him a sweet playful smile.   It doesn't reassure him. 
 It's not as if I'd been putting pressure on you. 
 What love means to you. What it requires. Is the pressure. He stops walking. 
 I love you. Is that such a terrible problem? She gazes at him.   Can he even hear this? 
 The problem is what it's always been. The problem is me. 
 (O.S.) The Queen of Diamonds Mabel Boll, about to become the first female to fly the Atlantic in the wake of Lindbergh's historic journey, regales an eager world press... The sound switches to Mabel at the mikes... 
 Okay, boys. I'll take any questions you wanna throw my way. Except about what's behind this sweater. The boys ROAR.   Mabel keeps her smile tight. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) The story.     Behind it. Of course. 
 (V.O.) George had told me Stultz was Adm. Byrd's favorite pilot, fearless, gifted. He drank. But George said it never affected his work. George waves as we approach.   Bill and Amelia seem locked on each other. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) When he said it, I must have had a funny look. So I just said, `Yeh, I grew up around a guy like that.' 
 Boys, I'd like to introduce your commander, Miss Amelia Earhart. 
 We felt `commander' was less grandiose than, say, `empress.' Bill doesn't smile.   The other man does... 
 Say hello to Slim Gordon your navigator. She is shaking hands in that strong, direct way. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) And Bill Stultz here, simply the most talented pilot working. She takes Bill's powerful hand. The look between them calm, yet somehow intense. As if each is establishing a tone for their relationship. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) We've got Byrd's pilot, we've got his plane... 
 
 Nope, those are new, personally suggested by the old man himself. Bill nods on that.   Sure were. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) This way, if you're forced down at sea, you can wait for a rescue. 
 Hmmn.   What does that do to our fuel? 
 Costs us at least 400 gallons. Don't bother bringing clothes for Paris, we'll be lucky to hit the nearest beach in Ireland. Real lucky. 
 The Admiral estimates the pontoons only cut our range by 200 miles. But Amelia looks to Bill.   That's not really possible is it? 
 The Admiral is the Admiral. He gets to estimate any damn thing he wants. All we have to do is figure out how to fly without petrol. She turns to George with challenging eyes. 
 BILL (CONT'D) Don't go blaming the bookseller. He's been all through this with Mrs. Guest, but she worships the Admiral. And it's money that puts planes in the air. 
 I wonder if it can keep them up there. Not that I've ever had enough to try. 
 Sorry.    I'll try keeping my mouth shut. 
 What I ought to try. Is listening to you once in awhile. 
 Careful.    I could get to like it. No reaction from him. He hops into the boat. Turns, holds out his hand. She hesitates. Clearly doesn't need his help to jump into a boat. Their eyes lock. We are watching her decide. And then... She reaches to clasp his hand.   Hops down beside him. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Thank you, Simpkin. Thank you for everything. 
 (a smile) Simpkin. 
 It's in a book. Oh, that's right. You read the ones you publish. Her smile is friendly, not flirtatious. She goes to sit in the bow. He doesn't follow. But he is watching. 
 (V.O.) There's a Beatrix Potter story about a cat named Simpkin. PULL BACK to see the PHOTOGRAPHER, George beside him. They are on a hotel rooftop, precariously high above Boston. 
 (V.O.) He wasn't happy unless he had several mice, each under a different teacup. So he could never become bored. We see that Amelia's POSE looks exactly the SAME as a photo of CHARLES LINDBERGH in the photographer's hand. It is labeled `LUCKY LINDY.' 
 (V.O.) THe illusion of activity was essential for him to feel at peace. The photographer now shows George ANOTHER PHOTO of Lindbergh in a different pose. 
 What are you boys doing over there? 
 Trying to make you look like a girl. George studies the photo, then goes to Amelia and begins moving her body into the new pose. Tilting her head to Lindbergh's angle. 
 (V.O.) I wondered.     Was I Mr. Putnam's 43rd mouse?     Or his 307th. Now touching her, adjusting her coat, fluffing a bit of her hair, pulling the collar around to frame her face... 
 he more we can make you look like a girl, the better. 
 Oh god, is it worth the effort? He cocks his head, studies her.    Nah, guess not. 
 Wondering who should play you in the film of all this. I'm thinking Chaplin. 
 Valentino's not available? He shakes his head sadly. Adjusts her collar once more. This time, his hands linger. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Two things. One, Chaplin can't play me because he's perfect for you. And two, you have company. She glances to where a WOMAN, beautiful and aristocratic, is being helped onto the roof. George's face lights to see her. He rushes over, sweeps her into his arms, kisses her tenderly. Amelia smiles to see this, makes her like them both. 
 Amelia Earhart, this is Dorothy Binney Putnam. The women trade smiles.   They shake hands, holding eye contact. 
 Great to meet you. George talks so much about you. (a wink) In fact, lately, you're all he does talk about. 
 Hold those smiles for one more, please. 
 Popping off letters. For my dad, my mom, my sis. You know. In case. 
. 
 I'm honored. That you'd leave these with me. 
 Who else? If I do pop off, it's your fault. Said in her sunny way. But she's not kidding.    It takes a beat before he can offer... 
 I'll call them once you're safely on your way. 
 Sam will handle that.   They trust him. That registers. 
 I've figured out the Simpkin thing, you know. 
 Have you. 
 Sure. There are so few books I haven't published, it was easy to find. Well...? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Beatrix Potter, the Tailor of Gloucester. He's a cat in a green frock coat. 
 But why is he you? Oh. 
 He's brilliant, charismatic... 
 So you haven't actually read it. Do you actually read? 
 ...neurotic, compulsive, manipulative. Am I getting warmer? She sighs. 
 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Well.   See ya. She walks off down the dock toward the Friendship. e stands watching her go. 
 (V.O.) Our first hop was to Canada, to start from as close as we could get to Ireland. Just in case we couldn't get the thing in the air and had to row. She walks briskly down the corridor. 
 (V.O.) The fuel was going to be so close, every single mile counted. Turns a corner.      Approaches the dining room door. 
 (V.O.) George told me to keep to my room, just in case there was a reporter or two somewhere. She enters the hotel dining room. Stops cold. Across the room a disgruntled Bill and a sheepish Slim stare at her from their breakfast, surrounded by 15 REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS. Holy shit. Half a dozen CAMERAS RISE as one. It is a defining moment. And Amelia... Cocks her head.      Throws an effortless golden smile. 
 Hi there, boys. How are the ham and eggs? The FLASHES EXPLODE as one.   They keep POPPING as Amelia makes her way to them. 
 Don't blame us, lady. I think somebody's starting to sell books. The reporters are handing her their morning editions. The New York Times front page headline: BOSTON GIRL STARTS FOR 
. There beneath the headline, the glamorous PHOTO we watched being taken on the Copley Hotel roof, Lady Lindy. Next to it, an earlier photo of her as a demure social worker. 
 Say, Amelia. What have you got for Mabel Boll to chew on? 
 Now why would a famous gal like Mabel give a thought to someone like me? I don't have a single sweater made out of gold. The boys ROAR, Slim louder than anyone. Even Bill cracks a smile. They're shouting, teasing, YOU CAN'T KID US! 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Hey, not even silver. The boys make room.   Bill rises to hold Amelia's chair.    A friendly murmur... 
 The ham's a little tough, Commander. But the bacon's swell. 
 (O.S.) The Queen of Diamonds Mabel Boll, upstaged by upstart social worker, seems madder than a rich wet hen. Hey Mabel, tell us about your rival! The sound switches to Mabel leaning her sultry voice to the mikes... 
 Well, how would any woman feel about some tart who steals her man? Reporters furiously writing, more flashes EXPLODE. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) Bill Stultz and I were going to make history together, until this poor little social worker and her sugar daddy, oh excuse me, `publisher,' started throwing money and I don't know what else at him. 
 Mabel, are you implying Miss Earhart used her feminine charms on your pilot? 
 I don't know, Charlie, I never seen her. Has she got any? LAUGHTER, they're all calling out.   She shows them a smoky smile, but stays on message. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) Well, she had to use something on somebody to get from nowhere to here. You figure it out, or wait til George Putnam feeds it to you. Two dozen questions at once.   She's not even listening. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) We're going to Canada, waiting for some good weather on the Atlantic, and then we'll kick Little Miss Whoozis in the keester. 
 What makes you so cocky that she won't leave first? 
 Rusty, we can carry enough fuel to go to China. That thing they're flying can't load enough gas to make Yonkers. Tell that to Putnam's girlie. And while you're at it... She snuggles the gleaming fox fur around her. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) Tell her I do wear silver.   So I'm two up on her. 
 (O.S.) Eleven days of failure for plucky Amelia Earhart and her crew. If it isn't storms over the Atlantic, it's the inability of the seaplane's pontoons to lift from the sea. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Perhaps it's for the best. Remember, no woman has beat the jinx of the Atlantic and three have died trying. Including a princess and the niece of former President Woodrow Wilson. The plane's engine SPUTTERS and STALLS.     It floats on the sea. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Maybe this one's not to be. Hey, Mabel! How's your weather report? 
 
 T! 
. Amelia looks down from her charts.       Her mind going to... 
 Christ, what time is... 
 Time to fly. Get up, get dressed, we're going now. She is calm and angry at once.    A powerful combination.   Slim pulls his pants off a chair. 
 Where's the weather report? She goes to his bed. Hands him a slip of paper.     He blinks, still waking up. Reads. 
 BILL (CONT'D) It's not good enough. 
 Great. Maybe Mabel will think so, too. Because if she doesn't, she's going to Paris and you're going home. Today. 
 It's not good enough. 
 It's fine, there's a tail wind all the way, we'll off-load to 700 gallons, which gets us off the water and the wind gets us to Ireland. 
 We've had better than this and we haven't gone. 
 But this   is the day Mabel's ready, so we're   going now. The weather is going   to get better and we'll be there   to enjoy it. 
 You're serious. 
 Just as serious as you're hung over. (to Slim) You go now, get the late weather, we'll meet you at the plane. Go. Now! Slim pulls on his shoes, grabs his jacket, his bag. Looks to Bill, but the pilot is glaring at his commander. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I've loved one person unconditionally, Bill. He is the most caring and generous and charming and flat-out funny guy I'll ever know. He's my father. Her eyes are burning with this.    And Bill keeps quiet. Anyone would. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) He's a drunk. And he's let me down all my life. She leans closer. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Now you get out of that bed. And you fly that god-damned thing to Ireland. Or I swear to you, Bill... Just above a whisper... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I swear to you I will. Or die trying. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) And either way. You're going to be living with it. 
 Good.     Slim, start the engines. She still hasn't given the paper to Bill. Slim steps onto a pontoon. Starts CRANKING up the propellers. As the engine KICKS to life... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) You signed a contract. You've got a direct instruction from me to go. That report indicates some degree of risk and it's a risk I'm taking. 
 Have a nice flight. 
 Thanks. She motions to Slim, get on board. The navigator grins, starts to climb up, looking back at Bill... 
 Hey, I'm scared shitless of this dame. She climbs up after him.   One look back... 
 Read tomorrow's papers, Bill. We'll both be in them. And disappears. Alone on the dock, Bill hears the engines REV. Jesus, God, she's going to do it. He takes a step toward the plane, but her head appears in the hatch... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) So, to take off, you pull back on the thing, right? Her perfectly straight, innocent face.    He BUSTS out laughing. This fucking girl. 
 
 
 
 (V.O.) Dearest Dad. Hooray for the last grand adventure. I wish I had won, but it was worthwhile anyway. You know that.     I have no faith we'll meet anywhere again, but I wish we might. HOLD on the gray eyes.   DISSOLVE TO... LATER. Amelia at the window, still opaque with fog. Suddenly, the plane SWOOPS down toward a clearing in the clouds. There to the south, a FREIGHTER running across our path. No land in sight. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) 
 
 IRELAND   IS. Checks his watch. 
 BILL (CONT'D) 
 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) 
. Their eyes are locked. 
 
 BILL (CONT'D) 
 
 
. 
 
 
 
 Out of gas. May have to swim for 
 Mr. Putnam phoned. He says there's fella coming from London. Hilton Railey. 
 Oh, yeh. Very important man.   More important than any of us. Really?    Yep. 
 He says ya mustn't come ashore til he gets here. No matter what. Great.    She doesn't like it, but there it is.   She waves, so long. 
 BILL (CONT'D) Some kind of royalty, is he? She nods. 
 Public relations. Goes back to work.    DISSOLVE TO... LATER. Amelia sits with her papers in her lap, dangling her feet from the hatch. Alone. Hear the BUZZ of... ...a PLANE dropping slowly from the sky, gliding onto the water on its pontoons. She stares at it. Gathers up her things. LATER. Amelia sitting in a tiny dinghy, behind her the Friendship in distance. She is being rowed to shore. Our VIEW is over the back of the man rowing. Amelia is staring past him, vaguely apprehensive. REVERSE ANGLE. She's looking at TWO THOUSAND WELSHMEN swarming the docks. You can't even see the sand. The crowd is silent and staring. No cheers. As if they were staring at an alien or an animal in the zoo. Bill and Slim help pull the dinghy to the rocky shore. But when Amelia jumps out, the crowd... 
 Sorry Ma'am. Shoulda brought more men. 
 No, really, this is very sweet, it's an honor. I'm actually enjoying it. 
 That's a good thing. She looks at him as they are jostled along. 
 SHERIFF (CONT'D) Because you're stuck with it. From here on. She is brought to a smiling avuncular HILTON RAILEY, standing beside the closest thing Burry Port has to a limo. She throws an affectionate arm around him, kisses his cheek. 
 Hullo, Hilton. Railey stands back as FLASHBULBS catch the moment.   He's brought photographers with him. And more. 
 Amelia, say hullo to Allen Raymond of the New York Times. A hearty handshake.   She holds out her sheets of paper. 
 I believe you've come for these. Both men regard the pages as if they were gold bullion.     Come for these indeed. 
 (O.S.) A whirlwind week for Boston's Amelia Earhart, our own Lady Lindy. Races at Ascot on Gold Cup day...watching Helen Wills Moody play at Wimbledon...Lady Astor's 3              guest at the House of Commons... 
 I was a passenger on this journey. Just a passenger. Everything that was done to bring us across was done by Wilmer Stultz and Slim Gordon. All the praise... 
 (calls out) But you can fly, can't you? Amelia stares at the man.    Conflicting agendas. 
 This flight was solely to the credit of Bill and Slim. Women should know, however, that I have had 500 hours solo flying and once held the women's altitude record. 
 So you could have done it yourself! 
 This particular flight, under these conditions, I wonder if anyone but Bill Stultz could have pulled it off. But certainly, one day a woman will do this. As easily, as skillfully, as professionally as any man. Such calm self-possession.    Such confidence in that. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Aviation is clear today for the pioneer. And if the pioneer has good ideas nobody will ask whether P            the pioneer is a man or woman. olite applause.       Mostly from women.   She looks around the room. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I hear your doubt. That doubt is our challenge. This is where our Atlantic flight, or any other good flight by a woman can help... She nods.    To them, to herself. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) It starts women thinking. 
 Guess you can burn those letters. Dorothy wonders.       Letters? 
 I saved them for your book. One simple shake of Amelia's head.       A soft... 
 The book's yours.     The letters are mine. He smiles.       Bows in submission. 
 ou're the boss. 
 Hey, that's my job. (to Amelia) Do you think there's enough of him to boss for the two of us? Amelia still looking at George.    Laughs. 
 Barely enough for one. A battery of reporters and flashbulbs wait by our motorcade. 
 Miss Earhart, can you tell us some- thing about your future plans? 
 Well, being a social worker by trade and passion, I'll be going back to work at Denison House when all this fun is over. She sends the guy a smile, and a dozen FLASHES catch it. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) ...if I haven't been fired. George holds the door of their limo. She looks up to him with a mischievous smile. And with no warning... ...Amelia bypasses the limo, climbs into the SIDECAR of a cop's motorcycle, and SMACKS its side. The cop looks up to George, who... ...nods, go for it. And the cop DOES, wheeling out into traffic, opening up the SIREN, as everyone laughs or cheers or darts into the street desperate for a fleeting photo. George watching her go.    Dorothy watching George. 
 Mr. Putnam, sir. How did a social worker like Miss Earhart become comfortable as a celebrity so quickly? George smiles.   His eyes still following Amelia. 
 The truth is, she was a celebrity on smaller stages all her life. 
 (V.O.) So they took me home with them to Rye. And I lived there, while I wrote my book. PULL BACK to see our view has been George's. He sits at an antique writing desk, watching her through a picture window. He rises slowly. We see that he has been reviewing a CONTRACT, which he takes with him. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I thought he'd be a tyrant and that I would have to manage him. He smiles as he approaches.   She goes back to work. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Instead he was kind and generous. And only picked the fights he needed to win. He drops the contract on her table.     She looks at it. 
 Lucky Strike endorsement.      I wrote the copy myself. 
 What does it say?   `I don't smoke but you should?' 
 It says Lucky Strikes were the only cigarettes aboard the Friendship. That's true. 
 True and misleading.      Why would I sign that? 
 So Bill and Slim get paid. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) If you're too proud to take tobacco money, donate it to Byrd's expedition, and we get great publicity. She stares at him with hard eyes. His smile just becomes more relaxed. An easy win, no big deal. She begins to sign the contract. He places a stack of letters in front of her. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) This week's marriage proposals. The top one's the most creative. It's from Sing Sing. She starts to read.    Her eyes widen.   Goodness. AMELIA (reads) `...in the prison yard, so everyone can watch and share in our...' 
 DOROTHY (CONT'D) You make her work for nothing. At least you can feed her. (to Amelia) Are you done yet? If not, make him write the rest, he will anyway. 
 (V.O.) The lecture and publicity schedule was fierce. I was with her pretty much all the time. Amelia and George alone in the wings. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) This was the moment of opportunity. Could we launch her into Lindbergh status as a permanent icon, before her name fell out of the news- papers. He re-ties her scarf.   Checking out the effect. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) We had separate agendas. For her, it was the advancement of aviation and of women. He very slightly rearranges her hair, as if every lock matters. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) As for me, I liked to tell myself it was about the money. Though there was never much of that left over. She stands for inspection, with her trace of a teasing smile. He holds out his hand and she gives him her note cards. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Really, it was about the chance to be around her. He flips through the A cards, frowning as he goes. MELIA (George imitation) This will never do, A.E., simply unacceptable. He looks up.   She starts pacing around, gesturing as he would... AMELIA (George imitation) You need more ammunition in these cards, and where's the goddamned humor, for Chrissake? By which I mean something actually funny! He's trying to look annoyed.   It isn't easy. AMELIA (George imitation) And please remember not to turn your pretty little backside to the crowd when you use your pointer, it's your face they're paying to see. Well, most of them. She WHIPS around.   He's deadpan. 
 (V.O.) I remember the first kiss. It is only one step.     Her hand goes to his chest.    Her eyes close, as... She brings her mouth to his.     Tender and strong.    And deep. It is an act of decision. A held look. No one smiles. We hear her name ANNOUNCED from the podium. But she keeps looking at him. And as the APPLAUSE CONTINUES, she finally... ...turns. STRIDES onto the stage, with one graceful wave, she brings the applause to a crescendo. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Of course, I knew all the stories 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) But I didn't kiss him because I felt sorry for him. Or because it would mean the world to him. INTERCUT.   George in the wings.    His heart in his eyes. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I did it.    Because I wanted to. He looks down.   He's still holding her cards. 
 It's so good to meet you. I've been following your career with a great deal of admiration. 
 Um.   Thanks, and.   You, too. 
 Feel like a drink? 
 Amelia!   What would her mother say? 
 Relax, George. I meant a Coke. As she leads Elinor into the sitting room of their suite, the girl's eye falls on the door to the bedroom. It is slightly ajar, revealing an unmade double bed. Unseen by the others, the kid reacts. Oh, my. 
 They're saying you get $500 a week on the lecture circuit. 
 GEORGE                          AMELIA On a bad week.                  On a good week. 
 All depends. On whether you want the sell or the real. 
 Oh, I don't underestimate the value of selling. It's why I'm here. 
 A 16-year-old girl sets an altitude record, then makes headlines illegally flying under the four bridges of the East River. You don't seem to need much help selling yourself. 
 Well, actually Mr. Putnam, I was hoping you could do to me what you've done to her. Inadvertently, her eyes flick to the bedroom door. Catching this, our couple shares a dry smile. The kid sees that. Uh- oh. 
 ELINOR (CONT'D) What I mean is. It's a good thing. That's why I want it. Now our couple is trying not to laugh. 
 Just so we're clear, young lady. What is your primary ambition? ELINOR (straight back) To take Amelia's place as the number one female pilot. The honesty, the suddenness, leave George atypically dumbstruck. 
 Well, good for you! I would have expected nothing less. You want a tip? 
 I do. 
 Keep doing what you're doing. The girl nods, seriously.    Okay. 
 MELIA (CONT'D) And don't let anyone turn you around. 
 Lovely party, huh? 
 Depends on your point of view. I've been listening to some idiot brag about his girlfriend. Still walking.   She never looks at him. 
 Well, in that case, for your information, it is a lovely party indeed. Anything on your mind? 
 It's not so much that my husband is having an affair with his meal ticket. It's just a pity we can't have one honest conversation about it. 
 What's wrong with this one? A promising start, I'd say, in the honesty department. She finishes her drink. Throws the glass away. From our ANGLE we can now see D Amelia in the window, watching them. 
 If this is what you call an honest talk, I'd say you need some practice. 
 Great. Let's try one about you and Fred Upton. She stops walking.   Turns in shock, to see his easy smile. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Well, I'm waiting for our practice conversation. Hoping I'll learn something. About honesty. 
 Dorothy and I are through. She sits beside him.     Very close. 
 For a long, long time. 
 It's different now. She looks at him.   Squints.    How? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Marry me. Oh.   A breath. 
 I can't do that. 
 If you give it a chance, you'll learn to love me. He seems so sunny and strong.     What can he be feeling? 
 I already love you.    That's why I can't marry you. GEORGE (a murmur) Well, that explains it. For a minute there, I thought you were stuck for an excuse. 
 I know me.     And you don't.   Not really. 
 What if I promise not to learn? 
 The day will come. When I will run away. And when it does... He stops her with a kiss. 
 If you love me. I'll take my chances. He stares in her troubled eyes.   There is no answer. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Race you to bed. 
 (O.S.) Amelia Earhart and a bevy of lovely competitors say hello to the press announcing the First Women's Air Derby, racing from Santa Monica to Cleveland. Dubbed by Will Rogers `the Powder Puff Derby,' these gals certainly know how to capture our attention. The next ANGLE shows Amelia watching some of her colleagues bouncing playfully on a see-saw. She smiles tolerantly, but maybe there's a little too much cheesecake for her taste. 
 Wish I was important enough for you to manage. 
 Well, I've just got one client. And most days she's more than I can manage. Even Elinor's smile seems older, more capable of subtlety. 
 Get in line behind the boys she smacked around on the Derby. He grins back.   You bet. 
 ELINOR (CONT'D) Some of the gal flyers had their doubts about her...well, her skill level. But she's everyone's champion now. 
 And both of those things.      Are the S         reasons I called you. trange words.   He has her attention. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I think it would be huge for women flyers if Amelia won the Derby. The publicity would put the race, and all of you, up there with the boys. 
 I'm not sure she has much of a chance, Mr. Putnam. 
 Well, the one shot would be putting her in a far more powerful plane than anything she's flown. We're thinking the Lockheed Vega. The girl's shock.    He really means this. 
 Sir, I've test piloted the Vega. It's way more than she could ever handle. It wouldn't be safe, let alone successful. He smiles. 
 That's why I'm thinking of you flying with her. You could handle the cross-country flying, the more difficult bits, and I'd pay you $75 a week. Elinor WHISTLES low. 
 Well, I think that's the most generous opportunity I've ever been offered. He stares at her. 
 There's just one thing. Obviously, it has to appear that Amelia did all the flying. So when pictures are taken, you'll stand off to one side. Her eyes narrow.    He's completely serious. 
 In that case, I'll get my own plane and win the race myself. 
 You haven't changed. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Unfortunately for you, neither have I. The look in his eye is not to be ignored. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) You can't win if you can't get a plane to enter. Let me predict that you won't. The voice calm and low and riveting. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) In fact. If you reject my generosity, you may come to regret it. For a long, long time. 
 That's a threat. 
 I'm an intensely loyal person, Elinor. And this is what my loyalty requires. She's glaring.   Reeling.   Trapped. 
 She's the one who said I shouldn't let anybody turn me around. 
 She probably meant me. So honest, the words confuse her. 
 Obviously, she doesn't see me as a threat. 
 Oh, sure she does. A straight smile... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) She just doesn't care. ...which silently fades. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) My job.     Is to care for her. 
 
 he told you that I shut her out of the Derby. And that's true. 
 And when were you going to tell me? GEORGE (calm, straight) Never. I knew you'd go crazy. And I felt it needed to be done. She can scarcely believe this. 
 What? You think I wanted it done, but just let you do the dirty work? 
 I didn't say that. 
 Because I'm no angel. Business is competition and competition is rough, and I thank my stars that you're there making this life happen for me, but... 
 ou're making your life hap... 
 But this is different. It is. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) If women are going to stab women in the back, then women are going nowhere. 
 rom here on, I'll just stab men in he back. A 
 You didn't do this for business, anyway.   G 
 I did it for fun? 
 You did it because you love me. That stops him. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) And when we're married, you mustn't ever... Now she stops.      Because his eyes are wide. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) What's the big shock? I thought you wanted to get married. Full beat. 
 did.   I do. 
 Well, then. His eyes moving over her face. 
 What about what you said? The day S            will come when you run away. he nods.    It will. 
 You'll be destroyed. And part of me will, too. And I think we both know it. And yet. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Sometimes things happen that way. You're not better safe than sorry. Tears stand in his eyes.       He is so happy. 
 (V.O.) ...I want you to understand I shall not hold you to any medieval code of faithfulness to me. Nor shall I consider myself bound to you similarly. Snow falling.    Absolute silence. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) If we can be honest I think the difficulties which may arise may best be avoided should you or I become interested deeply, or in passing, with anyone else. She gazes intently, her heart in her eyes.     He never looks up. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Please let us not interfere with the other's work or play, nor let the world see our private joys or disagreements. And then... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I will try to do my best in every way. And give you that part of me you know and seem to want. He folds the letter carefully.    Places it in his pocket.       And smiles. 
 y Amelia. Brutal in her frank- ness. Beautiful in her honesty. He steps to her.    Looks in her eyes.   They kiss. 
 (READING) `...pure suicide for any woman today...it is madness for them to attempt it and...' He looks up to her. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) `...at least the first dozen will be drowned.' And we're reading 
 I might fly to Paris. Silence. 
 Which is actually across the Atlantic. 
 Hence, the article. Ah.   He nods. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm thinking of doing it solo. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Would you mind? He butters his toast. 
 Not at all. When would you like to go? 
 I'm surprised you're all right with this... WIDEN ANGLE.     George kneeling beside her.   Happily planting his own. 
 Really. 
 Mmm-hmmn. I was braced for the lecture. Five years since Lindbergh, no one's made it solo, so many of them died. He looks at her work. Reaches over. Starts packing the earth HARDER around her plant. She just watches, then... 
 ell, they were only men.   This is different. She reaches to his plant and starts LOOSENING the soil... 
 I was waiting to hear that I'm only doing this because I was just a passenger last time, and I'd rather die than go on living as a fraud.. No one cracks a smile. It's like Laurel and Hardy in a food fight where each lets the other take his best shot. George 
 MELIA (CONT'D) But you don't think that, do you, ear? 
 Of course not. But if I did... She SMACKS his hand. He just keeps working. She finally grins, smacks him HARDER. He doesn't seem to notice. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) ...all the more reason to say yes. 
 Elephant hair, I think you wear it on your toe. It's good luck. He puts it in her hand. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Anyway. That's what the elephant told me. Amelia looks at the ring.   Turns it in her fingers. 
 I think luck has rules. And I try to respect them. My favorite is... She glances up. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) We make our own luck, you and I. Remember that. He will remember that.    And more. 
 Do you have money? 
 No. He pulls out a twenty dollar bill.      Hands it to her. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) All this? G 
 Sure. 
 Thank god, I thought you were going to tear it in half. 
 I spent our money on ocean liner passage to go bring you back. It's non-refundable. So try to do your part. She nods.   She'll try.   He doesn't want to leave her yet. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) So the Simpkin thing. What was all that? 
 I put it in a letter. Which you'll get if I don't make it. So...mixed emotions, huh? He shakes his head. GEORGE (very soft) Either way, something to look forward to. She puts her hands on his face.    She doesn't want to leave him either. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) See ya. 
 (V.O.) The weather report wasn't perfect. But we knew our real chance was to take weather that others wouldn't. Ahead, towering CLOUDS in moonlight.   Too high to fly over. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I closed the deal by choosing May 20, five years to the day from Lindbergh's flight. It was too good a sell for George to resist. 5              What we didn't know... 
 (V.O.) ...was that my altimeter would conk out. Never to return. 
 (V.O.) The only way to have any sense of altitude, was to keep dropping toward the sea. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I was too busy to grasp how impossible the situation had become. The joke was... LATER.   Flying in and out of cloud cover. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) All those months flying only with instruments, I should have been practicing without them. PAN to the windshield. A small GLOW at the surface of a vibrating engine. Amelia hasn't noticed. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I started to wonder if luck was paying me back. For thinking I knew the rules. A small BLUE FLAME LICKS out into the night. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Then I smelled burning oil. She sees it now. The flame coming through a broken weld in the manifold ring.  A 
 MELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) A bad weld, already a small flame. It would be hours back to Canada, trying to find an unlit field, landing with a heavy fuel load. She stares at the little flame.   Is it growing bigger? 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I told myself, push on. After all, if it was a stupid choice... LATER. Flying in blackness.    Rising, as the engines seem sluggish. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...no one would ever know. Suddenly, a FILM of SLUSH on the windscreen. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) With seemingly no warning, there was ice. The controls froze. And the Vega DIVES into a DIZZYING SPIN. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Through the spin I had one thought, it would be warmer lower, the ice would melt, I just had to regain control... 
 (V.O.) ...before I hit the water. And ARCING at last to SWOOP above the whitecaps.   Way close for comfort. SMASH CUT TO... 
 (V.O.) ...or passed out. ...SMELLING SALTS, she inhales, again, blinks, starts to climb... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) The ice happened twice more, and I began to lose heart. Then I remembered Lindbergh's book saying the same thing happened to him. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) So I figured, if he's twice as good, I just have to be twice as lucky... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I'd read that part in George's reception room that first day. Bless him for keeping me waiting. The FUEL GAUGE reads EMPTY. She switches on the RESERVE TANK. And as she DROPS back down into opaque clouds... ...she feels something. Her fingertips go to her left shoulder, and come away... Wet.   Slick. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) The cockpit gauge was defective. There was a steady trickle of fuel down my neck. She looks around helplessly for a way to stem the dripping. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) Toss-up whether the bigger danger was running out of gas or going up in a fireball. I had my answer in less than an hour, when... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) The manifold weld began to separate. I gauged the likelihood of explosion at somewhere between probable and inevitable. 
 (O.S.) Mr. Putnam? Line three. He turns and looks at her. The girl's eyes go down and he BOLTS to the phone, SNATCHES the receiver, SLAMS the button... GEORGE (into phone) Putnam. 
 (O.S.) Sir, this is Douglas McGuire of the Press Association. I'm sorry to tell you that Miss Earhart's plane has crashed in a field, short of Le Bourget airport. 
 (O.S.) Is she all right? 
 (O.S.) If the crash is as reported, sir, I'm afraid not. There were terrible flames. LOWER, it's dropping fast, maybe too fast, WOBBLES in a crosswind, here comes the GROUND, and... 
 (O.S.) Are they completely sure it's her plane? 
 (O.S.) Yes sir, absolutely. ...the Vega RIGHTS itself and GLIDES in for as fine a landing as a bumpy meadow could allow. COWS look up as she rolls past, toward... ...one lone astonished FARM WORKER.   She cuts her engines, leans from the hatch... 
 Excuse me, sir. Where am I? A blink.   The truth... 
 In Gallagher's pasture. 
 MAN (CONT'D) Where are ya supposed to be? 
 When I left, I was aiming for Paris. Oh. MAN (very sad) Ya missed, y'know. 
 (POINTS) It's over there. 
 (O.S.) Amelia Earhart arrives to a tumul- tuous New York reception after her whirlwind tour of Europe, in which our Queen of the Skies danced with her royal counterpart the Prince of Wales, before meeting both Benito Mussolini and the Pope. The MAYOR, the GOVERNOR, every dignitary that could get an invitation is there to greet her. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) The second human to fly the Atlantic solo, she is the only one ever to fly it twice. And she set the record, man or woman, for the fastest crossing. Fourteen hours 54 minutes. As she waves to the crowd... 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Now it's America's turn to show our girl what we think of her! 
 ell, I'm glad someone besides me finally noticed. His smile is light.    Her eyes watching him.   Then... AMELIA (reads) `Using a man-made perfect machine, tuned by men mechanics, trained by men flyers, on a course laid out by a man. By a lucky break she just managed to make the hop.' She stares at the paper.    His voice comes gently... 
 hy would you even read that garbage? 
 Well, it reminds me how much I owe to the men of this world. Keeps me humble. 
 ood. And remembering how little you owe me keeps me humble. And softly... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) He's a crackpot. Let it go. He points to the packed hall... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Cheer up.     They're crazy about you. AMELIA (quiet) Well, they're crazy about something. She looks down.   Self-doubt flickers. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) What have we really done? 
 You've made them feel like this. 
 That's not enough. 
 Most of them are women. And for them, it's very much enough. She shakes her head. 
 The World Telegram said, `a magnificent display of useless courage.' 
 The question is. Can any magnif- icent display of courage be use- less?     A 
 The point is. Men do it every day. And no one throws a parade. Ah.   Well... 
 One day closer, then. To the day when they won't think to throw one for you. She doesn't turn.   She doesn't smile. 
 Reasoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. He nods to himself. 
 And.   It's fun. From the stage... 
 (O.S.) 
 (O.S.) 
. George murmurs close to her ear... 
 If a bomb goes off tonight, the whole government of the United States is out there... 
 (O.S.) 
... 
 Some dog catcher will have to become President. She smiles.    Just for him. 
 (O.S.) 
. GEORGE (a whisper) Boy. Imagine if you'd actually done something. AMELIA (a whisper) Imagine. 
 (O.S.) 
... 
 Ladies. 
 (O.S.) 
 M           iss. She's through the curtain, and the crowd CRACKLES with APPLAUSE as... ...George stands in the wings.   Proud.    And concerned. 
 (V.O.) The irony is, I'd finally put that wedding day letter out of my mind. Stopped watching every beautiful accomplished man who crossed her path. REVERSE ANGLE. Through the glass of our compartment door, a crowd stands jouncing against each other. Gazing at their Queen of the Skies. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I had a call from the Byrds. They've asked us to dinner Thursday. 
 Thursday, I'll be in Boston. Meeting Gene Vidal and Paul Collins. Said lightly. Not even looking at him.     While through the glass, it's become quite a tussle. 
 Don't tell me Gene wants to resurrect Transcontinental? 
 No, he's starting a shuttle service. Washington, New York, Boston... One woman goes flying from view, as a younger one gets her place. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Could be a money maker for us.    Get me off the lecture grind. He stares in her eyes.   Almost as if looking for something. 
 Gene's a dashing guy. He could talk anyone into anything. Their look holds. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) 
 Transcontinental was too ambitious. Too many hops, too tough on the ladies. But the shuttle... A lean athlete's body, easy grace in every movement. Strikingly handsome features that convey not only intellect, but kindness and decency. 
 GENE (CONT'D) Washington, New York, Boston. I think it's the future. Will you go there with us? She's trying to crack her lobster, but can't take her eyes off her host. 
 What on earth would you need me for? She's making a real mess of the lobster.    Gene notices.   PAUL COLLINS doesn't... 
 Hasn't George taught you anything? Lady Lindy, the queen of the air, the best known woman in the entire U.S. of A? Gene reaches over, as if it were his own plate, and begins cracking her lobster for her. She looks in his eyes and tries to concentrate. 
 PAUL (CONT'D) Gene on the poster with you. Legendary athlete at West Point, two events in the Olympics, a top pilot who should be running the skies for Roosevelt when he wins... 
 (V.O.) Gene had a terrible marriage and was separated from his alcoholic adulterous wife. But he was too kind to humiliate her with a divorce... Gene drains the last of his beer. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) As a result, he was basically a single parent to their young son, Gore. He glances at his watch.      Wow. 
 I'm rattling on here, and you've got a morning train. But she's just staring in his eyes.   This could be her last chance to ask... 
 How's Nina doing? 
 Oh, fine. Really?   He smiles, gently. 
 GENE (CONT'D) Actually, she hasn't been feeling her best. She'll probably summer in Newport. So my kid's stuck with Dad again. 
 If you two get bored, I could tag along sometimes. 
 You suggesting you're less boring than I am? 
 Well, yeh. He smiles first.    Hers is slower, but here it comes. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Any given meal, I can eat a lobster and have you boys in stitches. A full beat.    He's deciding. 
 Gore would love that. He has a little crush, I'm afraid. 
 At seven? 
 He's eight. Well, then. He breaks the look.     Fishes out some cash for the bar tab.        G 
 ENE (CONT'D) Listen, Paul and I would be thrilled to rope you into our shuttle. 
 Are you kidding, it's a godsend. No matter how hard George and I work, how many lectures we cram in, there's never enough money for the next adventure. He looks at her. Lets the silence sit there.     His eyes seem to convey a depth of understanding. 
 The next adventure.    What is it? She shrugs.    No idea. 
 GENE (CONT'D) Because we're running out of oceans. 
 Wish you'd do something about that. 
 I'm serious, Amelia. Her soft smile. 
 I know.   Always. 
 The only way you can stay where you are. And be who you are... Serious indeed. 
 GENE (CONT'D) Is to keep feeding the beast. She can't smile anymore.     Because this is the very fear she lives with. 
 GENE (CONT'D) And the beast always needs something larger, greater, more daring... AMELIA (quiet) He costs money, too. 
 The price of fame, literally. Do you and George talk about this? Silence. 
 We don't have to. 
 With all respect.    Yes, you do. 
 For understanding. There is no smile. Without a word, she goes into her room. CLOSES the door behind her. e stands alone. Do I knock on that door?     Then, smiles to himself, and simply... Walks away. 
 (V.O.) After Roosevelt won, his wife Eleanor brought the advancement of women to national attention with stunning success. CLOSE on ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, eating heartily, chatting, laughing with a companion we don't see until... 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) A gutsy gal who rode a bobsled in he Winter Olympics, spent hours each morning on horseback, and carried a pistol on car trips. She possessed boundless energy, a towering intellect... ...we reveal Amelia in a formal satin dress at her side, dishing with the First Lady like the closest of girlfriends. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...and was Amelia's idol. As it happened, she was obsessed with flying, making Amelia her absolute heroine. A 
 So he hasn't actually forbidden you. 
 Franklin doesn't forbid. He just feels it's a waste of my valuable ime to learn. Since I can't afford to buy a plane. 
 The wrong Roosevelt got elected. 
 And it will take at least four years to correct the mistake. Keeps eating. 
 ELEANOR (CONT'D) I did ask about aviation, but he hasn't decided on the structure yet. It might be under the Bureau f Commerce. 
 I think the structure may be less important than the man chosen to run it. Said casually, looking at her plate. 
 My hearing is failing. I missed the words `or woman,' which you undoubtedly added after, or per- haps before, the word `man.' 
 his could be one of those rare instances. When the most accomplished candidate. Turns out to be male. Glances up for the reaction. 
 How exciting. I love finding the exception that proves the rule. Is t a name I know? Amelia's straight gaze.   Her small smile. 
 How do you feel about flying at night? Eleanor's eyes register the change of topic.     Rolling with it... 
 I've never done it.   Franklin finds t dangerous. 
 Outstanding. 
 It's dual controls.   No one will ever know. Hesitation. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Don't you trust me? And slowly, Eleanor's fingers close on her wheel.     Amelia's hands come away from hers. 
 Dear God. The Condor purrs along through the night air. The moon bobs slightly off to one side. Eleanor's eyes are swimming with the thrill of this. 
 I feel like a Coke.   Can I get you something? And stands up. Only the trace of her smile as the pilot's eyes WIDEN in absolute shock. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Do try not to hit the ground. 
 Today, we proudly announce an appointment critical to America's commerce, and to its role as technology's leader in the Twentieth Century. PAN to Gene at his side.   Sober.   Distinguished.   Proud. 
 ROOSEVELT (O.S.) (CONT'D) 
 Have I told you what a perfect job ou did on the peonies? They're miraculous. 
 Sorry. 
 It's all right. You've been distracted lately. No spin on that.   If G anything, the tone is kind. 
 EORGE (CONT'D) Listen, I've put together a month n Europe. Close some foreign licensing deals, open new markets... She doesn't look up. 
 When are you leaving? 
 Thing is.     I'd like you to come. She stiffens only slightly.     Can he sense it? 
 I don't really see how I can. 
 I've talked to the promoters, they'll switch some lecture dates for us. Now he's looking at her profile.     Saddened, if not surprised, by what he sees. 
 Well, it's not just that. There's y work on the shuttle, we're at a critical stage, and...I've just started as Gene's consultant at the Aeronautics Branch... She knows he's watching.    Shakes her head.    Keeps on working. 
 Normally, I'd be worried about leaving you here alone. But I suppose that won't be a problem, will it? She stops now. Looks up at him.      If he wants a direct conversation, he can have it. 
 What are you trying to say? 
 I think I've just said it. A long held look.       Neither backing away.   Sadness on both sides. (softly) Is there anything you want to say? She sighs.       Her fingers reach out, rub his hand with affection. 
 I can't think of anything helpful. He nods.   Well, then.      Rises slowly... Walks back toward the house, his garden tools forgotten.          She stares after him. 
 (O.S.) Los Angeles, California. The Tenth Olympics of the modern era kick off, as movie stars mingle with ordinary Joes. On the track, WOMEN RUN the 100 meter high hurdles as every throat CHEERS. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Here's the gold medal run of the world's best woman athlete, abe Didrickson. Cheered on by the most celebrated woman of today... TIGHT INSERT of Amelia with Gene and 8-year-old GORE, all applauding excitedly. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) ...that's right, Amelia Earhart. Hollywood glamor, American winners, and wait til our boys warm up for their action. The camera lingers as Amelia says something to Gore.     They look like a family. 
 (V.O.) By this time, I had a side job as chairman of the editorial board of Paramount Pictures. So Amelia and I bought a little place in Los Angeles. He goes slowly back to his desk.   On it, sits a large cardboard CARTON. 
 (V.O.) She was out there, preparing for a flight, when our home in Rye burned to the ground. We SEE that the contents of the box, papers, small objects, have been SINGED or CHARRED. He stares into it. 
 (V.O.) We both cried when I called to tell her. She asked to come be with me. But I insisted she stay there, to keep on schedule for her flight. He reaches into the box... 
 (V.O.) So many treasures lost. Letters and poems she'd written. I poured through the rubble... 
 (BEAT) Yeh. What's today been like?       You still okay? INTERCUT George at his office. He's standing at the window, phone in one hand, single sheet of paper in the other. Like the other objects in the box, it is partially singed. 
 I found something you'd written. Draws a breath.     Reads... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Thank you for writing that. A beat.   His voice still softer... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Even though I'd never seen it. HOLD on him.     The pain of what that must mean.    And... 
 I suppose I thought.      It was too revealing. WIDEN ANGLE. Gene enters the room with a drink in his hand and sits down next to her, concerned by her obvious distress. (into the phone) I'm so glad you have it now. 
 (LISTENS) 
 (O.S.) The odyssey began in Honolulu when he became the first person, man or woman, to fly solo over half the Pacific to California. Touching down, the cheering CROWD held back by police. As Amelia taxies to a stop, the crowd BREAKS THROUGH police lines and SURGES toward the plane. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Then, the first human to solo from California to Mexico City. Followed by her daring solo across the Gulf. As she passed over Washington, D.C., she eclipsed the time of a certain previous flight, from 27 hours to 13 hours. Amelia hops down from the plane, grinning and waving.   She is surrounded by adoring fans. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) The pilot of that previous flight? Some guy named Lindbergh. The JOSTLING of the crowd gets out of control, the police can't protect her as she is SWEPT ALONG by the mob, beaming, laughing, enjoying it all. 
 If you don't drink, why do you come o bars? 
 Must be the ambience.   And the nuts. 
 What worries me is, in some of these bars the nuts are the ambience. Specially when they make a pass at you. 
 Any guy would have to be nuts to do that. I'm considerable trouble, if you haven't noticed. 
 You keep advertising that, but I'm still waiting to see it. She looks down at her fingers as they shell.    Barely audible... 
 You'll see it. 
 Well, here's your chance. I'm taking Gore to the conference in Bermuda. He wants you to come. 
 Gore, huh? 
 Sure.   I'm completely indifferent. 
 I wish. Do you? 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Would make life simpler. She throws a peanut which BOINKS off his face.    He smiles a suddenly goofy, very non-elegant smile. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Actually, I'll be in Indiana. Edward Elliot of Purdue wants 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'll be back and forth. When I'm there, I've asked to stay in the dorm with the girls. 
 That's a wonderful idea. Especially now. Something in the way he said that. 
 What's special about now? 
 A good time for some positive press about you as a role model. Her eyes harden.   Whatever do you mean? 
 GENE (CONT'D) You don't read the papers? 
 Not unless someone makes me. 
 Well, someone should. Because they're all saying you took recklessly dangerous solo flights for no earthly purpose except publicity. Meaning, money. Dead.   Silence.     G 
 ENE (CONT'D) They also harp on a growing list of products that you commercially endorse. 
 How thoughtless of me to be doing ll this in a society where no one else is interested in making money. Present company included. He's not afraid of her. 
 Look, George had you taking money rom the sugar cartel for the Hawaii flight, the Mexican Government for theirs, he's selling commemorative stamps which you carried on the flights... 
 If this is about George, just say o. Because we made those calls, nd we includes me. 
 I'm sorry I said it that way. This s actually about you, because I'm picking a fight, apparently a useless one, for the benefit of someone I care about. 
 And what's your point? Women are eld to some higher standard? Bankers and industrialists are ad- mired for succeeding, but women are just considered selfish and grasping? ENE (quietly) Of course they are. 
 Well, let's change that, shall we? r would you just prefer to adopt t, since groveling would be easier. Staring at each other. 
 If you want to make money, my guess s that people viewing you as Lady Lindy, America's Sweetheart of the Skies, the wife/mother/daughter they all wished they had. Would be helpful. 
 Thanks for the tip. 
 Thanks for not being defensive. Full beat. 
 Well, I'm an open-minded girl. And o prove it, I'm hereby resigning as your consultant at the S            Aeronautics Branch. he throws some money on the table for the drinks. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) The public linking of our names does more harm to that image of mine than everything else put together. She stands up. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Next time you read the papers.      Try reading between the lines. Walks out.       Gene makes no move to follow.   He's said his piece. 
 I came to Washington today with the National Women's Party, to ask the President for his aid in passing the Lucretia Mott Amendment for equal rights. She waits for the press to quiet. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) And that's because I haven't needed it. The winsome smile. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm the lucky one. Our Department of Commerce shows no prejudice in issuing licenses to fly. A pilot is a pilot. And now it fades. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) How about giving the rest of our women. The ones who can be productive for their families and for our nation an equal break? She is not defiant.      Gentle and strong. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) They are your sisters and your daughters. They are your wives. And fellas... The smallest shake of her head. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) You've no excuse. And you know it. 
 CO-ED Okay, it's all well and good to tell us to study whatever we want, and work at whatever we want, and not give a darn about what the world of men think... 
 ...including them wanting us to say darn instead of damn. Laughter.   The girl flushes a little, her point is a crucial one... 
 CO-ED But what about those of us who are getting married when we graduate? What advice do you have for us? 
 Don't. She meant that.      And no one is laughing now. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Build your career first. And, surprisingly, that's the best thing you can do for your eventual marriage. So many eager faces, so many disturbed ones. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Look. It starts with a strong sexual attraction, that the oman assumes must be love. Some heads are nodding.   Some eyes suspicious. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Everything works until the first financial crisis jars the man's confidence and threatens the oman's security. Why...? She looks from one to the next. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Because she can't help. All she can be is dependent. Because that 
) He says he's the man in your life. Amelia hops off the piano.   There are plenty of curious faces. 
 Trust me. Only a husband talks like that. In their laughter, she goes to the phone.      EVERYBODY hangs on every word of... (into the phone) Yes?  Yes. Yes... (hand over phone, to the 
) They love when we say `yes.' Laughter. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm flying in Tuesday. Yes, of course, I'll make time. 
) Me, too. 
 (BEAT) Me, too. Thanks for the roses. She hangs up. Turns to her adoring pupils, and drops a curtsy. Ta-da! They APPLAUD. She stares at them. As if deciding whether to say... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Can you women keep a secret? They can.   And boy, do they want to hear one. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Well, it's no secret that I'm a bit driven, some might say obsessive, about my little flying adven- tures... They are nodding, wide-eyed, go on. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I've decided to embark on easily the most exciting, possibly cra- ziest, ever... They hold their breath. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm going to fly. Around the world. A frozen beat for them to even absorb this. They BURST into WILD APPLAUSE, Amelia beaming, as we DISSOLVE TO... 
 Are you going to tell me your surprise, or do I have to get physical? 
 Boy, that is the last thing I'd want. Well, then? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I only thought that if you're serious about this around-the-world nonsense. It might be handy to have a plane to fly in. 
 Except it would have to be an Electra, and they cost... 
 ...$36,000. After a generous discount from Lockheed. 
 May as well be a billion. 
 ...not to mention at least another 36 to get it modified and ready. She glances at him.      He looks awfully smug. 
 And your surprise is, you robbed a bank. 
 Actually.    A university. They stop.    What on earth...? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I've sort of persuaded Ed Elliot to create an Amelia Earhart Fund for Aeronautical Research at Purdue. And suggested a budget item of... He shrugs. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) ...oh, eighty grand. For a suitable `flying laboratory.' Her eyes just bug out.      No!   He nods, slowly.   Uh-huh.   And she... ...THROWS her arms around his neck, KISSING him hard enough 
 EORGE (CONT'D) As I said, I've sort of persuaded Ed. There are a bunch of trustees and donors, tho. We have to get them on board. 
 Think I could help? He looks in her eyes. 
 Nah. She grins. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) By the way. That's not the surprise. It's not?    Uh-uh.   And he glances to... ...the window of the GALLERY they've stopped at. She sees a magnificently carved CHEST. On a crest in the front: AE. We PAN the surface, to see planes, oceans, a shamrock for the Londonderry landing, dozens more symbols of her triumphs, and in a bottom corner, looking up at all of this in wonder... ...a small cat.     In a long frock coat. GEORGE (a whisper) Merry Christmas. Her tears just come. She's standing on Park Avenue and she can't do anything about it. He reaches a tender hand... ...and strokes her hair.      He is her hero.   See it in her eyes. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Can't wait to see what you got me. She sniffles. 
 Cat food.    A whole case. 
 (O.S.) Dear Mr. President: Some time ago I told you and Mrs. Roosevelt about my confidential plans for a world flight. The chief problem is the jump westward from Honolulu... 
 As President Elliot has said, it would be a shining adventure, beckoning with new experiences. Making me more useful to the program here at Purdue. She looks into the eyes of each in turn... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) It is much more. I believe that women should do for themselves what men have done - and occasionally what men have not. Yes? 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) This might encourage other women toward greater independence of thought and action. And I know how deeply you gentlemen desire that. There is gentle laughter.   Amelia reacts in mock surprise. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I know, of course, from my chats earlier in the evening. With each of your wives. More laughter.   Applause from a wife, then the others, then all. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) In that spirit, I want each of you to reach for your checkbooks... She regards their amusement.   And losing none of the warmth of her own smile... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I mean that quite literally. This is an opportunity for me to exhibit the quality my husband admires most. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) The capacity. To be relentless. 
 So you'd be the first one, right? ou always like that. First one? 
 GORE (CONT'D) To fly around the world. 
 Well, there's Magellan, 400 years go. Actually, he didn't make it. And he died. And he used a boat. 
 So it's almost the same, except it's completely different. 
 Pretty much. He glowers at her.    She glowers back. 
 There are men who say they flew around the world, but they didn't ly around all of it. 
 Because at higher latitudes, it's short trip. At the North Pole, ou just spin in a circle and you've gone around the world. 
 So why are you asking? Just to show how smart you are? 
 Pretty much. 
 ORE (CONT'D) The only way to really fly around he world is to fly the entire circumference of 27,000 miles. Like at the equator. 
 No one's tried it.    You think I should? No answer. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Dare me. 
 Okay. 
 Okay. Is she serious?       She seems to be. 
 Ask her about the Pacific. The maximum range of the Electra is 4000 miles. And the closest land est of Honolulu is farther than that. Gore looks to her.       Well? 
 I'll have to refuel. 
 Where? 
 In the air. One plane to another. The boy is staring at her now.       Staring. 
 You're really going to do all this, aren't you? 
 Well, don't you think I can? A beat. 
 I guess we'll find out. 
 Pretty much. HOLD on Gene.   He smiles at his kid... 
 Go out to the car and get Sara. Ask if she'll take you for an ice cream. Okay? The boy knows he's being dismissed. Looks from his dad to Amelia, who steps forward to give him a hug and a kiss. 
 We'll play some cards before you leave. Okay, then. He waves. One more glance at dad, and Gore goes. Gene gestures for Amelia to come with him, away from the mechanics. What's up? But he's already walking to... ...a little folding table, off in a corner.     She follows. Sits. Well...?       G 
 You can't refuel in the air. Just like that. 
 s that an opinion or an order? His rueful smile. 
 The only good thing about losing our former relationship is I feel a little freer to tell you when you're being completely crazy. 
 Oh, I bet there are more advantages than just that. No one's backing down on this. 
 You're not a good enough pilot to o mid-air refueling. You will not be able to control the Electra or that docking maneuver for that amount of time. 
 I've taken bigger risks. 
 I've noticed. Don't be so proud of it. He reaches into a pocket. Pulls out a folded sheet of paper. It opens to reveal a MAP of the Pacific. A dot is CIRCLED in red. 
 GENE (CONT'D) This is Howland Island. It's half- way between Honolulu and New Guinea. It has no elevation, no trees, it's a mile wide and a mile and a half long. Hardly anyone knows or cares that it exists. 
 It's your vacation home. 
 We're colonizing it, because when the Japanese make their move, we're going to need a refueling strip there. She blinks.   The Japanese. 
 GENE (CONT'D) Try reading the newspapers between he lines. We haven't started building the runways yet. Maybe if someone I knew could get the President's attention... She stares at the map.   The dot. 
 GENE (CONT'D) It's really tiny, a grain of sand n the middle of a thousand miles f nowhere. Her eyes are clicking through a calculus of their own. 
 GENE (CONT'D) 
 GENE (CONT'D) Can you handle that? 
 Hullo, Fred. It's good to meet you. She holds out her hand. He juggles the mugs, so he can shake it. Strong look in each other's eyes. Hands her a mug... 
 This time of day, I like it with bacon and eggs. His slight grin.       A handsome guy. 
 Over easy on the eggs.      Your job could depend on it. Silence between them.       Comfortable smiles. 
 I'm told that mid-air refueling would be beyond my abilities. 
 Better odds of hitting that island? 
 Even with cloud cover? 
 They did. 
 FRED (CONT'D) Pan Am will tell you. Everyone I ver worked for will tell you. Nothing's interfered with my performance. Not once. 
 My dad drank. He lied all the time. Rest his soul. 
 Bill just had to find Europe. We're looking for something less than two miles long, with nothing higher on it than 18 feet. He shakes his head. 
 FRED (CONT'D) Money-back guarantee. She holds the look. AMELIA (softly) Hey.   How can I lose? 
 Did I pressure the navy to build a landing strip at Howland Island? How exactly would I do that? L         Threaten not to enlist? aughter in the room.   More flashes. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) The airstrip has been planned for a long time. I was thrilled to learn it will be ready in time for my flight. The navy has been wonderful, as always. 
 #1 Amelia, what do you say to the charges that your husband is pulling the strings, pressuring you nto this around-the-world flight o make a financial killing? George BOLTS forward to the microphones, looks at his wife with astonishment... 
 Wait a minute, you're flying around the world? Don't you know a woman's place is in the home?? The press ROARS with laughter. 
 #2 George, why don't you go along this time? Watch over the little woman. 
 I begged to go. But it seems that between 185 pounds of husband and 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) At least, I think that's what all he laughter meant. He gives her a kiss.   Thirty FLASHES record it.   As he steps back... 
 #3 Experts are saying that this `flying laboratory' is a sham. There's nothing to be learned for aviation, and you're just in this for the money. The place gets really quiet. 
 Who am I to argue with `experts?' I'll just give you my plain old common-sense thinking on this... Pens come up, cameras jockey for position. This is what they're waiting for. She holds up one finger. First... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) We may not learn much about the plane, but we will about the pilot. Endurance over a month's journey, flying nearly every day. Response o stress, crises. I think that will make a contribution. Holds up a second finger.   Two... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm a working stiff like all of you. I don't apologize for the fact that I need money to live. And to keep financing my flying, which is what I love. I think that's a positive example for women. Third finger.   Three... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'm not doing this as a scientist. I'm a flyer, boys, pursuing my passion. For the fun of it. The fun of it. Something I recommend as a healthy motive for women. A wink.   A shrug... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) ...and maybe even some men. 
 Well, we need enough for a third pass at Howland. After you miss it the first couple times around. Ah. 
 (V.O.) We were, all of us, fearful about hat landing. No one guessed... Amelia ROARS OFF, gathering SPEED. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...it would be the take-off. The Electra SUDDENLY VEERS TO THE RIGHT, and we SMASH CUT 
... INTERCUT. Oakland Airport. George and his retinue waiting. A phone RINGING. Someone takes the call, his face freezes, 
 (O.S.) Have you heard? They crashed, the ship's in flames. SMASH CUT to the cockpit, the Electra SPINNING crazily on its belly, SPARKS EVERYWHERE, the plane suddenly comes... ...to a BONE-JARRING STOP. The right MOTOR is pushed up INTO its wing, which itself has BUCKLED, the stabilizer BENT, the left wing extends UPWARD from scraping the runway, the landing gear no longer exists. SIRENS SCREAM as fire trucks and ambulances race toward them. Amelia is ashen, disbelieving. Next to her, a gentle... 
 
 O! George alone on the tarmac.   Stops in his tracks.   Now he can cry. 
 Three weeks, she'll be good as new. It's a remarkable crew. The best 
 ...the best that money can buy. I just can't believe I've done this o us. All the money wasted that's never coming back. 
 You cut the engines. It would have cost a bundle more to replace a burned-up plane. Not to mention pilot. She shakes her head.    No. 
 I overreacted. The plane was too heavy, I should have used the rudder pedal instead of the throttle. Tears stand in her eyes. She is so ashamed and remorseful. He lets it stay silent as they walk. Then... 
 t's only money, we'll figure it out. We always do. 
 I'll make it back and more, I promise. The book sales, the lectures, this flight will keep us going another three years. 
 Maybe.   Or... 
 No, it will. Our prices, our sales, are going to double. 
 (SNIFFLES) They thought I was competent. GEORGE (softly) I meant.    Or maybe we can quit. She looks over.    Not sure if... 
 You mean after. 
 Or.     Even now. A strong smile.    He nods.     We could. 
 So my exit would be a stupid crash. nd withdrawing from a world- publicized attempt to finally do something no man had done before. 
 Yeh. That. And it would be fine ith me. Her eyes overwhelmed A his offer. by                  Her voice soft with... 
 But that's because you're an idiot. 
 Lucky for you. A held beat. 
 And what if it's not something I have to show the world? Hmmn? 
 What if it's something I have to show me. He has no answer for that.       Takes her hand.   They head toward the house. 
 Have fun. 
 Who let you off the hook on this? She takes his hand firmly and together they cross the hangar toward Gene. He smiles, unfolds a third chair. As they arrive, Amelia steps forward... ...kisses Gene on the cheek.    George shakes his hand. 
 Thanks for letting me come. As they sit, Gene looks from one to the other. 
 GENE (CONT'D) I guess I'm already outvoted. 
 She'd outvote you all by herself. he does it to me every day. Gene's smile can't mask the concern in his eyes. 
 I don't have a choice. I have to reverse my route and fly east. If go west now, I'm risking hurricanes in the Caribbean and monsoons in Africa... 
 But you're flying Howland last, when you're exhausted. She knows this.   In the silence... 
 Gene, this way our first leg is Oakland to Miami. It's a shakedown o make sure the plane is right. That's crucial. Gene nods, slowly.    His eyes still locked on her. 
 Maybe I'm obsessing on Howland because it was my bright idea, and I'd feel responsible if... 
 Well, if I do pop off, I'll try to make it somewhere that's not your fault. 
 I'd appreciate that. Draws a breath. 
 GENE (CONT'D) You miss that island. You'll be out of fuel, with 2000 miles to go. 
 But I'll have Fred so I won't miss. In fact, I'm taking Fred along for this whole trip. Surprisingly, he doesn't seem to like this.   She smiles. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Giving up my little arrogance about solo. Safety first, yes? But he's still unhappy.   She waits for him to say. 
 You and Fred alone for a month... 
 If you're worried about his drinking, I'll deal with it. Straight look. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I can handle Fred. And now we get a sense of exactly what does worry him.   He glances to George... 
 How do you feel? 
 Tip-top. Every little girl needs a man around. Even strong girls like ours, hmmn? A very direct gaze.   Words neither said nor needed. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) She can handle us. She can handle Fred. A full beat.   The look holds between the men. 
 EORGE (CONT'D) And thanks for being here. You've always had Amelia's best interests t heart. he look still unbroken. 
 EORGE (CONT'D) And, for that. I'm grateful. 
 (O.S.) The legendary Amelia Earhart lands in Miami, completing the first and easiest leg of her around-the-world equatorial flight. A feat no man has ever attempted. That's hubby George with her, he gets off here. Behind them, coat slung casually across his shoulder, is Fred. Waving like he belongs. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) That handsome guy behind them isn't a movie star. Nope, it's navigator Fred Noonan, who will be Amelia's sole companion on the exotic odyssey... CLOSE on the rugged smile. 
 ANNOUNCER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Hey, where does a guy go to apply for a job like that? 
 I'll be flying sky no one's ever been in. You made that happen. She looks down to his easy smile. 
 Hate to think where you'd be without me. She smiles back.       Tenderness we don't always see. 
 I'll try to make you proud. 
 You did that long, long ago. Only ne person left to prove yourself o. Just make sure you do it. 
 And then what? 
 Then the best part.    The future. She stares in his eyes.       Leans to him. AMELIA (a whisper) Oh yeh.    That. She brings her hands to his face. Her mouth to his.      Deep. Longing. Her body sinks into him. LONG ANGLE.      Two alone.   Only each other. 
 (V.O.) The radio problems crept up on us ver time. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) The marine 500 kilocycle radio was left in Oakland. Amelia said she 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) The 250 foot trailing auxiliary antenna, she would leave behind in Miami. Too heavy, not important. FLASHES now. And plenty of them. She reaches down to take George's hand and HOPS down from the wing. More FLASHES... 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Then, suddenly our remaining radio ouldn't reach its designated frequencies. Pan Am hurriedly replaced the main antennae. And we thought all was well. Amelia and George coming toward us now, hand in hand, leaving the press behind. Into... The hangar. In shadow here.     The world far away, she takes his hands. A silence. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Race you to California. I'll go west. Five bucks? 
 If you'll fly the plane.   Make it twenty. And then... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Simpkin keeps many mice at one time. Each under a different teacup. Wow.   He's finally going to hear this. 
 We're saying he's cruel? 
 No. 
 Controlling? 
 Insecure. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) He needs the illusion of activity o feel comfortable. That he's preparing for all contingencies. George has to grin. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) That he has more irons in the 
 Especially the mice. 
 Exactly. Each poor mouse thinks it's all about her. Staring at each other. 
 And one of them.    Is right. AMELIA (a murmur) She knows. And then... 
 want you to give me something. He's never sounded quite like this before. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Tell me this is your last flight. Her eyes flicker.     Look down.   A whispered... 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Promise. And when the eyes come up. 
 Don't you know I couldn't? Even if part of me wanted to. Very, very much. The look holds. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) How can we be anything. But what we are? 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I do love you. Something in her serious face makes him smile. 
 Well, I love you back. 
 Thanks. Takes a step back toward the hangar door. One hand slightly up, stay here. Then, the smile he's waited for. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) See ya. He smiles back. She turns and heads out toward the idling plane. She seems small, even fragile, alone on the tarmac. STAY with George.    Watching her go. 
... 
 
. He just glares at her.   Rain POUNDING all around them. 
 MELIA (CONT'D) 
. He doesn't move. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Stay if you like. And she climbs into the plane.   He just stands in the rain and glowers. 
. 
 
 
 
 
.' Held look. 
 That's more like it. She starts to TURN the plane around. 
 've got an idea. Let's never land. Better safe than sorry. He takes her point.    She turns back to work... 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'll wake you when the coffee's ready. And with cold-blooded nerve, she SWOOPS down, down, THROUGH the flock of eagles, scattering them as we arc in for a perfect landing. She never turns to... ...Fred, who is still white-knuckling, trying to get his heart started. He can't believe what she's just done. Rolling, rolling... 
 FRED (CONT'D) 
 FRED (CONT'D) Now stand over there. That's what it's going to look like, if the weather's good. 
 (O.S.) Mrs. Earhart? She glances up.   He beckons respectfully. NGLE. Alcove still with a VIEW of Fred and the courtyard. She lifts a telephone... 
 Mrs. Earhart? Mr. Earhart, here. He looks elegant in crisp suit and tie. INTERCUT: Amelia's eyes WIDE. She seems truly thrilled. INTERCUT BETWEEN THEM now throughout... 
 Oh, my goodness.   Simpkin, is it really you? George makes a PURRING sound.     A sharp MEOW. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) This is insane. It's so extravagant. 
 It gets worse, I bought a brand-new suit and tie. Got a date with my wife. 
 We can't possibly afford this. 
 ure, we can. It's Tuesday's call o Lae that we can't afford. AMELIA (delighted) You hang up the phone this minute. You'll bankrupt us and I'll have to walk home. 
 easoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. Her eyes remember.    A soft... 
 ..and it's fun. HOLD on her face.    And MATCH DISSOLVE TO... 
 An honest one. It's what you wanted. He nods.   That's right. 
 If you mean Gene, we're not together anymore. In that way. Not for a long time. 
 It was mine. 
 Anything but easy. Are you disapproving of the way I live? 
 FRED (CONT'D) Actually, I'd like a piece of it myself. Right about now. Her eyes harden.       A 
 If you have a point, Fred.   Make it. 
 Allow me to cut you a deal, my friend. Steel in the spine of that. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) You show up tomorrow morning. You show up sober and you get me to Howland Island. Okay? 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) And I'll forget you ever said that. She WHEELS around and holding her slicker over her head, goes OFF into the POUNDING RAIN. Fred's smile is gone.     He stares after her. 
 Ready, Mum. He stands and she takes his seat. He shows her the key to press, then steps back toward the window. But she makes no move to the radio. Just stares at him. He doesn't understand. AMELIA (gently) Feel like stepping out for a smoke...? 
 I don't smoke. 
 ...or something? Oh.   The monsoon beats down. 
 If you need help, I'll be right outside. In the rain. 
 Thank you.     I'll only be a moment. 
 You should be sleeping. He smiles to keep his voice up. The eyes aren't smiling.       We INTERCUT their conversation throughout... 
 You should be working. 
 I'm running a big adventure here, 'm a very important fellow. 
 You told me I was the star.   And you were no one at all. GEORGE (soft) I thought I was lying. Guess the joke's on me. Silence. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) How's Fred? 
 I'm mad at him. I'll be in Honolulu on the 3rd, and with you in Oakland for Fourth of July. Okay? 
 Don't keep me waiting. 
 I won't dare. You're a very important feline. Uh, fellow. 
 Talk to me about Fred. 
 Fred is fine. He's calculating head-wind speed versus fuel as we speak. CLOSE on his face. 
 You wouldn't sell a salesman would you? 
 He's fine. 
 So what's that I hear in     your voice? A beat. 
 Is he drinking? AMELIA (soft) I can handle it. 
 Call it off. Right now.      I mean it. 
 I can handle it. And then... 
 I love you. Silence. 
 After the Fourth.     We're going home. 
 Where's that? 
 For me?   Anywhere you are. She begins to cry. Both hands fly to her mouth and she looks away. She swallows hard. 
 I'm going to like it there. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) I'd better. Since this is my last flight. A long silence. 
 Well.    If you insist. She nods.   She does. 
 t's late here. Guess I'll go curl up under a teacup. 
 I'll go tell the world you're on your way. Neither wants to let go.      We feel it so strong. (a whisper) Sweet dreams. A beat. AMELIA (whispers back) See ya. And he's gone.      She stares at the radio. 
 Traveling light, that's all. She sits on the lip of the hatch.       Her legs dangling.   Her eyes down. 
 FRED (CONT'D) 
 It's fine. Her eyes come up. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) Everything is. He doesn't understand, but he's glad to be forgiven. She takes a LETTER from her pocket. Runs her finger over the envelope. 
 It's for my husband. I'm going to hand it to him. So I can watch his face as he reads it. She sniffles slightly. 
 AMELIA (CONT'D) It's our tradition. 
 (V.O.) Ten A.M., Friday July 2. They lined up on the thousand-yard runway. One thousand gallons of fuel, enough for 20 to 21 hours of flying. LONG ANGLE. Crew and onlookers watch as the plane STARTS its run, gathering speed, BOUNCING over uneven ground... CLOSE now on the jouncing undercarriage, a momentary PUFF of DUST, and as the plane moves PAST, we may notice that the belly antenna mast seems to be GONE. DOWN the runway it RUMBLES, still earthbound, only 200 yards to go. Then 100. Then FIFTY, then at the water's edge, the Electra RISES and... 
... 
 (O.S.) Mr. Putnam. Their headwinds are stronger than they knew when they took off. Then... 
 BALFOUR (O.S.) (CONT'D) I recalculated their fuel. It will cost them 9%. George staring off. Assessing the consequences. PULL BACK to see an ENSIGN standing, waiting for instruction. 
 BALFOUR (O.S.) (CONT'D) I can't raise them, sir. I tried voice, and Morse Code... 
 ire back. Tell him to forget the Morse Code. They didn't bring the receiver. The young man looks concerned. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Just tell him to stay with voice. He'll get them. 
 (V.O.) The U.S. Coast Guard cutter Itasca had been anchored off Howland just for us. CLOSE on the ITASCA now... 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Its radio would be her lifeline. Its black plume of smoke would reach for miles. More visible than the island itself. DISSOLVE TO NIGHT. The island visible only by its slender LIGHTHOUSE. The ship illuminated in the darkness. CLOSE now on a path by the sea. A lone figure with a FLASHLIGHT approaches a SHACK. Enters... 
 The direction finder.   How long has this been on? The seaman turns back at the door.   What? 
 That's her on 3105. She said `cloudy and overcast.' O'Hare looks at him. Are you serious? Bellarts mimes typing with his fingers. O'Hare starts typing into the log. 
:    3:45 A.M. Radio CRACKLES.    All eyes turn. 
 (O.S.) Itasca from Earhart. Overcast. Static.   Dalten leans to the mic... DALTEN (into mic) We are receiving your signal. Please acknowledge ours. What is your position? When do you expect to arrive Howland? No answer.    Light static. 
 Commander estimated 7:00. If she's having trouble on voice transmission, stay with Morse. And begins to carefully pack his pipe.      Dalten begins to transmit Morse Code. DISSOLVE TO... 
:    6:45 A.M. The radio.    The static.   The sudden voice... 
 (O.S.) Please take bearing on us and report in half hour. I will make noise in microphone. We are about 100 miles out. The transmission cuts out.     Dalten answers in Morse Code.    No response. 
 She's got to stay on longer. Bellarts dictating as O'Hare types... 
 Earhart signal strength 4, but on 
:    7:18 A.M. DALTEN (to Bellarts) Maybe her Morse receiver is out. (into mic) Can't take bearing on 3105. Please send on 500 or do you want to take bearing on us? Go ahead, please. Silence.   O'Hare typing:    NO ANSWER. 
:    7:30 A.M. DALTEN (into mic) Please acknowledge our signals on ey. Please acknowledge. CRACKLE.   O'Hare typing:    UNANSWERED. 
 Tommy, intercom top deck, double check the smoke stack... INTERCUT: AERIAL ANGLE high above the ship.       BLACK SMOKE PLUMES into clear sky... 
 BELLARTS (O.S.) (CONT'D) They should be able to see it for twenty miles, at least. TILT ANGLE.    In far distance, thirty to forty miles, a gray 
. 
:   7:42 A.M. 
 (O.S.) KHAQQ calling Itasca. We must be on you but cannot see you... Glances are traded. It is the first moment of visible concern. STATIC interrupts. Then... 
 AMELIA (O.S.) (CONT'D) Gas is running low. Been unable to reach you by radio. We are flying t altitude 1000 feet. DALTEN (into mic) You are reaching us. We are sending on 3105 and 500 constantly. Please acknowledge. Massive BURST of static. Dalten frantically CLICKING a message in Morse Code. DISSOLVE TO... 
 (O.S.) We are circling but cannot hear you. Go ahead on 7500. BELLARTS (into mic) Itasca to KHAQQ. Your signal is strong. Are you receiving this? A breathless moment.   A sharp CRACKLE. 
 (O.S.) KHAQQ calling Itasca. We received your signal, but unable to get a minimum. Please take bearing on us and answer 3105 with voice. BELLARTS (into mic) Your signal received okay. It is impractical to take a bearing on 3105 on your voice. Give us a longer signal, please. Go ahead. Silence.   Feet are shifting.   No one speaks. 
 You've got her signal, dammit. What about the direction finder? 
 Cipriani reports the battery's dead, sir. It was left on all night. Full beat. THOMPSON (low) I don't believe this is happening. 
:     8:12 A.M. BELLARTS (into mic) Itasca to Earhart. Did you get transmission on 7500? Go ahead on 500 so that we can take a bearing on you, it's impossible on 3105. Please acknowledge. 
:     8:33 A.M. No breath in this room.      No one moves. BELLARTS (into mic) Will you please come in and answer n 500? We are transmitting constantly on 7500 and we do not hear you on 500. Please answer on 500. Go ahead. 
:     8:44 A.M. Suddenly, a thin and anxious VOICE cuts through a burst of static...            A 
 (O.S.) We are on the line of position 157- 337, will repeat this message on 6210 kilocycles. Wait, listening n 6210 kilocycles. We are running north and south. 
 O'HARE Um. An hour. And two minutes, sir. HOLD on this room.    DISSOLVE TO... AERIAL ANGLE. The ship in clear daylight.       The BLACK PLUME of smoke stretching to heaven. 
 EORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Looking back, the questions were obvious. Why would anyone try to ind such a tiny target in a vast ocean, with barely an hour's lee- way in fuel? He draws a breath. GEORGE (into phone) Well, we're most grateful. With such an effort, of course they'll e found. 
... 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) So I tortured myself. Why hadn't killed this plan on day one? And then I realized... 
 (V.O.) If I tried to count the insane and reckless chances she took from the first moment I met her. I wouldn't know where to begin. Slowly to his knees.   By the plants they had tended together. 
 GEORGE (V.O.) (CONT'D) It was the most tragic of endings. The most cruel and senseless and wasteful. And yet... And yet. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) It's hard to imagine another. 
 (V.O.) My Simpkin. We POINT toward the water. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I want to be married to you. The way you've been married to me. It begins to draw CLOSER. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) As you read this. I am watching your face. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) I am hoping to see. That you know how much I mean each word. 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) All the things I never said, for so very long... 
 AMELIA (V.O.) (CONT'D) 
