 (The great smile flashes) John Henry Patterson, come in. I'm Robert Beaumont. (They shake hands) Firm- I like that, tells me a lot about you- (beat) -now why don't you tell me about me? To get you started, many people find me handsome, with a wonderful smile. I'm sure you agree. (Surprised, uncomfortable, Patterson nods) Winning personality, heaps of charm? 
 My wife is the game player in the family, sir. 
 Games? (staring dead at Patterson) Look at me closely, Patterson: I am a monster. My only pleasure is tormenting people who work for me, such as yourself. (again the smile - only now it's chilling) One mistake and I promise you this: I'll make you hate me. 
 (pointing along the line) We are building this railroad across Africa for the glorious purpose of saving Africa from the Africans. And, of course, to end slavery. The Germans and French are our competition. We are ahead, and we will stay ahead providing you do what I hired you to do- 
 -build the bridge over the Tsavo river. And be finished in four months time. Can you do that? 
 I'm sure you've examined my record. So you know I've never yet been late on a bridge. 
 You've never built in Africa. 
 But I have in India- every country presents problems. 
 You'll need your confidence, I promise you. 
 I've got a reason far beyond confidence: my wife is having our firstborn in five months and I promised I'd be with her when the baby comes. 
 Very moving, Patterson; I'm touched you confided in me. (beat) But I don't really give a shit about your upcoming litter. I've made you with this assignment- (the smile) -don't make me break you. 
 (smiling right back) You won't have the chance. (glancing at his watch) Any further words of encouragement? (silence) Then I've a train to catch. 
 I tried to be late, John- it would have been easier if you'd gone. 
 (They are nutty about each other - he nods) We're not much good at goodbyes, Helena. 
 (brightly) Tell me about Beaumont- does he understand how brilliant you are, how lucky he is to have you? 
 It was embarrassing- the man showered me with compliments. 
 Oh dear- (beat) -you're geting that downtrodden look again- 
 -well, it's just... (beat) ...other men don't abandon their wives at such a time- 
 (not unkindly) -oh please- if I'd been against your taking this, you would have abandoned me. You've been desperate to see Africa your whole life. 
 What if there are complications?- 
 -not "what if"- there will be, there always are. Which only means that our "son" and I- note my confidence- will have an excuse to come visit. 
 Go, now. (He kisses her hand) Such a gentleman. (Now he holds her) 
 I am desperate to see Africa- but I hate the leaving. 
 You build bridges, John- (beat) -you've got to go where the rivers are. 
. 
 He just gave me his "monster" speech. 
 (shouting toward Starling) "Breathtaking" doesn't begin to do it justice. (As Starling starts to laugh, his mouth opens and sand flies in, and his coughing fit returns and) 
 You know the most amazing thing about them?- they only sleep five minutes a day. (Starling glances at him- clearly, he didn't know that) 
 (nods) The females are bigger- only animal here like that- have to be or they wouldn't survive because the males eat the young. 
 Just that they fart through their mouths. (beat) Must make kissing something of a gamble. 
 (looks at his watch) Almost three hours. (beat) But I've been getting ready all my life. (Now, from them-) 
 Beaumont says it's to end slavery. 
 (They really like each other) Have you got that in writing? (Starling, amazingly good natured, laughs. And now-) 
 A. 
. 
 (softly) Does he speak English? 
 (not softly enough) And very poor French. 
 (as they shake) The bridgebuilder- (gesturing to the working men) -we have been getting ready for you. 
 Excellent. Could I see the bridge site? (Samuel nods) 
 I will bring him, Nigel. 
 Why do the workers look unhappy? 
 Because they are here. (beat) Because Tsavo is the worst place in the world. (He points ahead) Come, John- to the bridge. (And on that-) 
 (as they pass the INDIAN tent area where prayer is starting) It's all wonderfully under control, Samuel- you've done a splendid job. 
 Thank you. The truth is this: you have to work at it constantly. 
 The workers don't get on? 
 Get on? They detest each other. Obviously the Africans hate the Indians. But the Indians also hate the other Indians. Some of them worship cows, while others eat them. (As they move on) 
. 
 
 (to the far side) Railhead is across there. 
 Three thousand men laying track- when the bridge is done, it all joins up. 
 Did it look like this in your mind? 
 (shakes his head) This is more difficult- 
 (eyes bright) -but how wonderful that it's difficult, it should be difficult- what better job in all the world than build a bridge?- make things connect- bring worlds together- and get it right! (Now from Patterson-) 
 (nods) And anxious to get started. (indicating the hospital) What is this, mostly malaria? 
 (to Patterson) I'm David Hawthorne, this is my hospital. And my advice to you is, "don't get sick in front of it." (beat) That was meant to be charming, sorry. I seem to have lost the knack. 
 Nigel and I don't like each other much. 
 (breaking the tension) I am also liaison between these two. 
 (to Hawthorne) Clearly you don't agree about building the railroad? 
 This sham? Ridiculous. Who needs it? It's only being built to control the ivory trade, make men richer. 
 Then why do you stay? 
 Who else would hire me? (to Starling) Beat you to it, didn't I? (beat) Oh yes, almost forgot- brought you a little welcoming gift. (Now he gestures and we-) 
 This is Karim, one of my orderlies- attacked by a man-eater earlier today- first incident of that kind here. 
 Well, he got away, didn't he? (to Patterson) Riding a donkey not far from here when the lion sprang on them- donkey took the brunt of it- then suddenly the lion ran off. 
 I know it's your first day and of course you must be tired from the journey- (beat) -but what are you going to do about it? 
 (a long pause, then evenly-) Karim will have to show me where it happened. And of course, I'll need the donkey. (beat) With any luck, I'll sort it out tonight. (And he walks out, leaving an astonished Starling staring after him) 
 Well, he put me in a spot, didn't he? But that's all right- after all, I'm responsible for everything that happens here. And it certainly won't do much for morale if a man-eater's on the prowl. 
 (taking a rifle, moving outside) We know three things about man-eaters. First, they always return to where they've attacked before. Second, they're always old- they can't catch other animals so they turn to us. And third, they're always alone- they've been cast out by their pride because they can't keep up. 
 (delighted) Might be exciting for you. 
 I'd love the company. And I've hunted all my life. 
 Shhh. 
 (interrupting) -you'll have to deal with it, Nigel. 
 They own the night- nobody moves when there's a man-eater out there. 
 What? 
 Not to terrify you, Nigel, but it's worse than you think- I've never even seen one. 
- 
 (even more amazed) So that's what a lion looks like. (Now from the tree-) 
 
 Patterson has made the nights safe again. 
 (mimes shooting) 
! (Now as the crowd continues to grow-) 
 (gesturing) All right, I'd like to start the embankments today- (to Singh) -sufficient supplies on hand? 
 (nods) More than. 
 -true enough- but without the comedy relief. (Starling, amazingly good natured, smiles, gets back up) 
 How lucky we are. 
 Possibly. 
 (soft) You know, I too have killed a lion. 
 I used my hands. 
 
 All right- thee second embankment will go there. (He gestures toward the river) 
 (smiling) In your honor, Nigel. And you and Singh will be in charge of building them- and you'll also build the roadbeds and the three foundation pillars- and you'll be finished in eight thrilling weeks. 
 Nigel, you'll just have to use your hands- (And he smiles, repeating Singh's gesture, both palms out) 
 What are they looking at? 
 You- they cannot believe you're still here. 
 Nonsense. 
 You don't know what Tsavo means, do you? (Patterson doesn't) It means "slaughter"... 
. 
. 
. 
. 
 -HOLD- 
 -then he feasted on him, starting with his feet- 
 You intend "sorting this out" tonight? 
 I'll try- but this feels so different- that old lion I killed could never carry off a man Singh's size. 
 That's what the books say... (Now from that-) 
 SINGH'S TENT 
 You were contracted to work- 
 (gesturing around) -malaria epidemic; very sudden. 
 Let me see the sick. 
 (not backing off) Oh, you're a doctor now, too? 
 There is no reason for fear. 
 On that I choose to remain dubious. (beat) Two are dead now in two nights. (And on that news-) 
 (to Starling) Second death? Where?- 
 (just shakes his head) But it's crazy- the lion shouldn't be that hungry this soon. (getting control- he looks to Samuel) Samuel? 
 We should construct thorn fences around every tent area. Fires burning at night. 
 Fine. Get started. And a strict curfew- no one allowed out at night. (to Abdullah) Send half your men to the bridge, the rest with these two. (Abdullah nods) And I'm sorry for my tone earlier. But I repeat- there is no reason for fear. I will kill the lion and I will build the bridge. 
 Of course you will, you are white, you can do anything... (They look at each other. They are not friends. Now-) 
 You mean nobody died? 
 Oh yes, I think so. (Starling smiles, starts to speak) 
 Look out, Samuel, here it comes. 
 I've had four wives, good luck. 
 
 For you. 
 (taking it) Thank you, Samuel. 
 (watching as Patterson opens it) Good news? 
 (glancing at the letter) I expect so- it's from my wife. 
 Do you love her? 
 I do, actually; very much. 
 (his wonderful smile) You give me hope, John. (As he walks away-) 
 That was an attempt at humor but I don't feel very funny these days. I miss you terribly and after our son- I still have total confidence- well, after he's born I think travel might be broadening. As he kicks me at night I'm quite sure he's telling me he definitely wants to come to Africa. (pause) Thought you might need reminding. 
 (dazed) Jesus, two of them... 
 (shouting over the noise of the approaching train) -oh, sing a different song, Abdullah- (gesturing toward the men who stand by the train tracks) -there's nothing wrong with your men so stop telling me there is- 
 (advancing on Patterson now) -you do not call me a liar- you know nothing of their health- consider yourself fortunate I persuaded so many to stay- consider yourself fortunate I have decided to stay- 
 (losing it) You think you matter? (gesturing toward the train which is close to stopping now) -Beaumont is on that train- he matters- 
 He sees this chaos, he'll replace you all. 
 He'll replace you, too- that's all you really care about. 
 You think so? Fine. (finished arguing) It's best you get out. Go. Tell all your people to go, run home where they'll be safe under the covers and when the bridge is built and the railroad is done, they can tell their women that out of all the thousands who worked here, they were the only ones to flee- (And he wheels around, starts to walk away as we-) 
 Pleasant journey? 
 (stepping off the train) How could it be? I hate Africa. 
 Lovely sound- they seem happy. 
 Don't they, though? 
 So work must be going well? 
 (delicately) Truthfully? (beat) There has been the occasional odd hiccup- but then, as you so wisely told me, I'd never built in Africa. 
 But overall, you're pleased? 
 (moving in) I have never experienced anything like it. 
 I almost feel like getting right back on. (glances at his watch) 
 (a sigh) I suppose it would be a dereliction of duty not to at least look around. 
 (waving) Morning, friend, glorious day. 
 As are they all. 
 I do need to see Starling. 
 (dully) Starling? 
 Awhile back he ordered some bibles- (indicating the box) -I've brought them. (looking around) Is he here? 
 (beat) Yes he is. 
 Well, I need to speak to him. 
 (helpfully) Let me deliver the bibles. 
 Excellent show. (voice low) Where is Starling? 
 Here he comes now. (And on that-) 
 What in hell is going on? 
 The Ghost and The Darkness have come. 
 (snapping) In English. 
 It's what the natives are calling the lions- (beat) -two lions have been causing trouble- 
 -what's the surprise in that, this is Africa? 
 It hasn't been that simple so far. 
 What have they done besides kill Starling? (beat) How many have they killed? (Patterson nods for Hawthorne to answer) 
 Well, of course, I can't supply a totally accurate answer because there are those that are actually authenticated and there are those that we once thought were workers killing each other or deserting from camp so any number I give is subject to error- 
 (cutting through) How many? 
 Thirty, I should think. 
 (stunned) Christ! (whirling on Patterson) What are you doing about it? (Now from there-) 
 This is supposed to be salvation? (staring at Patterson) What kind of idiocy are we dealing with here? 
 (keeping control) I'm calling it my "contraption"- we're going to surround it with a boma- a fence, to you- and we're going to leave a small opening opposite that door. 
 In that half will be bait- human bait- I'll start things off- (points to the open doorway) -a sliding door will fit above that and a trip wire will run across the floor. 
 (The smile is back) Genius- the beast will enter, tripping the wire, the door will slide down, trapping him, you, safe behind the bars, will have him at your mercy and will shoot him. 
 Are you running a high fever, man? How could you expect something as lunatic as this to succeed? How could you even conceive of it? 
 I didn't conceive of it for the lions- I built one in India when there was trouble with a tiger. 
 (incredulous) And it worked? 
 (He hates to say this) In point of fact, it didn't. (hurrying on) But I'm convinced the theory is sound. 
 What? 
 I made a mistake hiring you- you're simply not up to the job. (Silence. Then-) 
 You genuinely enjoy trying to terrify people, don't you? Well, fine- (lashing back) -except there isn't a higher rated engineer and we both know that. And since time is so important to you, how long do you think it would take to find someone else qualified and bring him here? 
 Let me explain about time- you've been here three months and already two months behind. And the Germans and the French are gearing up. And I don't care about you and I don't care about the thirty dead- I care about my knighthood and if this railroad finishes on schedule, I'll get my knighthood and I want it. (glancing around as Samuel appears, goes to the workers) Professional hunters may be the answer. 
 All they'll bring is more chaos and we've plenty of that already- and if they come in, word will get out- and what happens to your knighthood then? 
 I'm going to try and locate Redbeard- I assume you've heard of him. 
 Every man who's ever fired a rifle has heard of him- by the time you find him, the lions will be dead. 
 (long pause) Very well, the job's still yours, I'll go. But if I have to return, you're finished. And I will then do everything I can to destroy your reputation. Am I not fair? (The great smile flashes) Told you you'd hate me. (And he turns, walks off) 
 (staring after Beaumont) I do hate him. (takes the bag from Samuel, pulls out flares) I want you to distribute one bag of flares to every tent area- (takes out a flare) -tell the men to light them if there's trouble- (beat) -make it two bags. (HOLD briefly, then-) 
. 
 (impressed) Very good indeed. 
 (he wears glasses) We have hunted since childhood. 
 All right- you'll spend your nights inside. (He indicates the railroad car. The Coolies nod) You'll have plenty of ammunition. You're totally protected, you have really nothing to fear. 
 That is correct. (beat) Nothing. 
. 
 Not once?- you didn't hit it once?- 
 -I would never make excuses- but a fire broke out- the light was bad- he kept moving- 
 -well, of course he kept moving- but he couldn't have been more than ten feet away from the three of you- surely you must have wounded the thing- 
 I assure you we came close many times- 
 -the next time we will do better. (Patterson makes no reaction; moves outside) 
 The next time will be as this time- The Devil has come to Tsavo- 
 (not in a mood for this) -that's ridiculous talk and you can't seriously believe it- 
 (moving in- tension rising as others crowd behind him) -now you're telling me my beliefs?- I don't think so- 
 I wasn't and you know it and don't push it- just listen- we have a problem in Tsavo- 
 (cutting in) -at last you're right- we do- you are the problem in Tsavo- 
 -careful, Abdullah- 
 You do not tell me "careful"- you do not tell me anything- you listen while I talk- (Now suddenly a shadow seems to cross-) 
. 
 (not looking around) No hints, Samuel. 
 (The name has registered) You don't know all that has happened here- the Devil has come to Tsavo. 
 You're right. The Devil has come. Look at me. I am the Devil. 
 (louder) I am a man of peace. 
 Am I to take it you want to live? 
 Most certainly. Absolutely. Yes. 
 Excellent decision. (Now he suddenly reaches out, shakes Abdullah's hand) Your name is Abdullah? I'm sure we'll meet again. Go and enjoy the splendid morning. 
 (dazed- leaving) I think it's been a pleasure. 
 (three words) You got old. (Now he releases Samuel, turns to Patterson) I'm sure you're John Patterson. (before Patterson can reply) Stay out of my way. (And without another word, he's gone) 
 (as Redbeard approaches) I didn't have a chance to thank you. 
 (preoccupied) What did I do? 
 Got me out of trouble. 
 (matter of fact) Nonsense- Samuel would have done something. (starts to move on) 
 We need to talk. 
 Let me save time- (1) you are the engineer; (2) you are in charge; (3) you're sorry I'm here. Right so far? (Patterson nods) Good- because (1) I am not an engineer, (2) I don't want to be in charge, and (3) I'm sorrier than you are that I'm here- I hate Tsavo. So I will help you by killing the lions and leaving, and you will help me by doing what I tell you so I can leave. See any problems? 
 Actually, no. 
 All right- let's go into battle. (suddenly taking Patterson's hand) I'm Redbeard. (as they shake) 
 Somehow I guessed. (As they move outside-) 
 Starting now, we attack them. 
 How; we don't know where they are? 
 We'll have to make them come to us, won't we? And since there are two of them, we're going to set two plans in motion. (to Hawthorne) First: we must move the entire hospital by tomorrow night. 
 (appalled) That's a terrible idea- 
 (backtracking) -is it, I'm sorry, but then, of course, you're the doctor, you should know. 
 Silliest thing I ever heard of- why in the world should we go through all that? 
 (charming now) I suppose I could answer you. I suppose I could explain that the place is so inviting, what with the smell of blood and flesh, that they have to strike. It's even possible that I tell you I found some fresh paw marks around back which means they're already contemplating feasting here. (Turning on Hawthorne now- his voice building) But I don't want to answer you because when you question me you are really saying that I don't have the least idea what I am doing, that I am nothing but an incompetent, that I am a fool. (big) Anyone who finds me a fool, please say so now. 
 (The words burst out) I have been desperate for Patterson to let me move the hospital since the day he arrived. 
 (nice smile) Then we agree. (And on that-) 
 Soon. (Redbeard nods) 
 (to Redbeard) I have to ask- why do you need me? 
 I don't really. But understand something- even though it may take me two or three days to sort this out- (Patterson has to smile at the phrase) -when I'm gone, you'll still have to build the bridge. And I don't want the men to have lost respect for you. 
 (kind of surprised) That's very considerate. 
 I'm always considerate- my mother taught me that. 
 Why do you laugh?- you don't believe she taught me? 
 I don't believe you had a mother. (And as Redbeard laughs too-) 
 You like him, don't you? 
 Oh yes. But it takes time. 
 You've known him long? 
 (He has) Since his beard was red. 
 How many cattle? 
 Four should do it. 
 They will want a lot of money. 
 (to Redbeard) Have you got it? 
 No, but you do- (beat) -see, you were needed after all. (to Samuel) And fifty warriors at the camp before dawn. 
 (Samuel explains. The Masai Chief replies. Translating) Why so many? 
 Because I have two plans to kill the lions- one involving the cattle, the other the men. 
 (translating) The Ghost and the Darkness have come... and we can do nothing... but if you anger them... they will stay in Tsavo... and life will become more unberable, that I know... 
 (beat) Two lions are all that have come... they're only lions, that I know. (beat) And I will kill them both tomorrow. (HOLD BRIEFLY, then-) 
 (terribly tense) You're certain about tomorrow? (Redbeard is) But you don't seem excited. (Redbeard isn't) 
 You don't enjoy killing, do you? (Redbeard doesn't) 
 Then why do it? 
 I have a gift. 
 Strange man. (to Samuel) Has he always been this way? 
 Much gentler now. 
 (shakes his head on that) John?- (He holds out his beautiful rifle) Change guns with me- mine's much more powerful. I'll be finishing the hospital tomorrow so I won't be with you- but if you'll use this... (beat) ...then I will. 
 Thank you. (He turns to Samuel) Why does he need you by him? 
 He doesn't. He needs nobody. But we have hunted many times... (beat) ...he knows I am afraid of lions... 
 
 A. 
 (whispered) I spotted one of them- (gesturing toward the thicket) -in there. 
 The best way to ensure the kill when you're using trackers is for one to shoot while the other uses the trackers to force the lion toward the shooter. Have you ever led trackers? 
 (He hasn't) I can try. 
 (no good) Samuel says you killed a lion. 
 It was probably luck- I'd rather you did the shooting. 
 You'd never force the lion to me- and nobody ever got a lion with one shot by luck. (points- hand out straight) Around there's a clearing- you'll know it from the anthills- get there and hide and listen to the sounds- I'll make the lion come directly to you. (He gestures for Patterson to take off and as he does-) 
 (as Samuel translates) -all of you- spread the width of the clearing- no gaps- go- (claps his hands once) 
 Shoot for chrissakes!- 
 Did you ever see a lion that size? 
 Not even close. (Now he moves to Patterson) What happened? 
 (a whisper) ...misfire... it jammed... 
 Has it ever done that before? 
 ...don't know... 
 It's Hawthorne's. 
 You exchanged weapons? (Patterson nods) You went into battle with an untried gun? (Patterson nods) 
 They have an expression in prizefighting: "everyone has a plan until they're hit." (beat) You've just been hit... (beat) ...the getting up is up to you... (And he turns, moves off and) 
 (to the Orderlies) Gentlemen, there's no sickness smell at all here, and little blood. When we leave, close the gate securely, don't open it til morning and keep your fires high. Any questions, ask them now. (They understand- now to Samuel and Hawthorne) You two will sleep beautifully in your tents. (beat) And stay there. 
 And where will you sleep beautifully? 
 (smile) Patterson and I will be in the old hospital- where the enticing smell of sickness still lingers- (beat) -and by the time we're done, I promise you, the odor of blood will be irresistible. (And on that-) 
 Think about something else. 
 Have you ever failed? 
 (sad smile) Only in life... (He walks away. Patterson watches.) 
 Goddammit! 
 It's all right. Stay ready. (indicates the blood) They know it's there. 
 (going to him) Meant to ask you- the railroad car trap. Your idea? (Patterson nods) Excellent notion- I used the same device myself once. 
 But of course yours worked. 
 In point of fact it didn't- but I'm convinced the idea is sound. 
. 
 (out of the blue) It would have been a beautiful bridge, John. I never noticed before, occupied with other business, I	suppose... (He's rambling) ...never really pay much attention to that kind of thing but I've had the time today, nothing else on, and this... it's graceful and the placement couldn't be prettier... and... (He goes silent now, stares off) 
 You just got hit. (Redbeard nods) The getting up is up to you- but they're only lions- (beat) -and I'm going after them crack of dawn... (And on that-) 
 In my town, when I was little, there was a brute, a bully who terrorized the place. (beat) But he was not the problem. He had a brother who was worse than he. But the brother was not the problem. (beat) One or the other of them was usually in jail. The problem came when they were both free togther. The two became different from either alone. (beat) Alone they were only brutes. Together they became lethal, together they killed. 
 What happened to them? 
 (pause) I got big. (They move on) 
 Dear God- (And on those words-) 
 Their den? (Redbeard nods) Have you ever seen anything like this? 
 Nobody's seen anything like this. Lions don't have caves like this- (beat) -they're doing it for pleasure. 
 One of my chief attributes is that I'm always calm. 
 (The words pour out) Where could it have gone? How could it get across the water? (looks at Redbeard) They're only lions, yes? 
 (shakes his head; he doesn't know) Don't they have to be?... 
 (pointing) Both of them over there. 
 Ever have to use a machan? (Redbeard hasn't) I did once. In India. We will tonight. (Now from that-) 
 They're used to people in trees, not in a clearing. (indicating the plank) It may be tight. 
 Not for me- I'm too bulky and it's your idea, you go up there. (to Samuel) Take the others to the water tower for the night. 
 I'll be bait alone? 
 Yes. And I'll be in some distant tree where I can provide no assistance whatsoever. (beat) Can you control your fear? 
 I'll have to. 
 I can't control mine- I'd be lost without the shame factor driving me. 
 Was that supposed to make me feel better? (Redbeard doesn't reply. Now-) 
 (glancing around) It's certainly the best chance they've had to kill you. 
 You think they'll come then? (Redbeard does) Why? 
 (not answering) Good luck. 
 Why? 
 (beat) Because I think they're after you. 
 How many do you think they've killed? 
 (reluctantly) The most of any lions... a hundred...? (beat) Probably more. (Now Redbeard looks up at the younger man) Johnny...? 
 Don't fuck up. (And he turns, never looks back, just goes) 
. 
. 
. 
 I think another for posterity- this is an important moment in my life. 
 Understand, I had help- 
 -not a time for modesty, Bob- 
 -undeniably your triumph. 
 Oh surely there's enough credit for us all- let's not forget, you did the actual shooting. Of course, I hired you, I was the general who put the team together. And generals are the ones who tend to be remembered. 
 Perhaps you might put your head in its mouth, sir- could be a corker. 
 Clever idea, I like it. 
 (drunk) I never thought I'd say this, but I'm glad you came. 
 (drunk) Understood- you realize now you could never have done it without me. 
 Actually, I could have done it much more easily without you, but for whatever reason, I'm glad you came. (They toast each other) 
 (drunk) Where do you go next? 
 Some Russian princes want to hunt the Himalayas. You? 
 Help finish the railroad. 
 I want to meet my son- he must be what, two months old? 
 Three years I've worked for the railroad. Now I don't know why. It seemed a good idea once. 
 I feel the same about the bridge. This country certainly didn't ask for it, doesn't need it. 
 Too soon to tell. 
 My life was shaped because someone invented gunpowder. Our lives have crossed because two lions went mad. But what if in the future the three of us do something grand for humanity? Was that worth all the lives? Too soon to tell. 
 (drinks) Some mysteries should not have solutions. 
 (finishes his bottle, rises, looks at Patterson) Hold your son high. (And he turns, goes to his tent) 
 (beat- quietly) He has children? 
 (beat- quietly) Once... (HOLD on the two in the firelight. Then-) 
. 
 Could you tell him that his wife- (catches herself, smiles) -that his family has come to see him. (On that-) 
... 
. 
 You're positive lions hate baboons? (Samuel is) Pebbles? (Samuel holds up a bag) Let's get it over with. 
 Where is it? 
 (pointing down) Underneath. (beat) Somewhere. 
 (embarrassed) Afraid of lions. 
. 
 It's all right, Samuel- we all get hit- (Now he shuts up fast and-) 
 Samuel! (And he gestures for the rifle and the instant he does-) 
. 
. 
