 
 
 
 
 (almost inaudible, as if to himself) Stopping...? 
 (softly, staring at the towns people) Man. They look woebegone and far away. 
 (looking around) I'll only be here twenty-four hours. 
 In a place like this, it could be a lifetime. (turning to face Macreedy) Good luck, Mr. Macreedy. 
 You for Black Rock? 
 (easily) That's right. 
 (uneasily) There must be some mistake. I'm Hastings, the telegraph agent. Nobody told me the train was stopping. 
 (with a ghost of a grin) They didn't? 
 (upset) I just said they didn't, and they ought to. What I -- want to know, why didn't they? 
 (shrugging) Probably didn't think it was important. 
 Important?! It's the first time the streamliner stopped here in four years. (swallowing nervously) You being met? You visiting folks or something? I mean, whatd'ya want? 
 I want to go to Adobe Flat. Any cabs available? 
 (as if he hadn't heard right; as if he wanted everyone in town to know) Adobe Flat?! (he gulps, recovers slightly) No cabs. 
 Where's the hotel? 
 (patiently) I asked where's the hotel? 
 Thanks. 
 (into mouthpiece) Hello, Pete? Now, listen... 
 T.J. J.S. 
 (slowing up) 'Afternoon. 
 (blocking doorway) Anything I can do for you? 
 You run this hotel? 
 No. 
 (pleasantly) Then there's nothing you can do for me. 
 (turning to Coley) Find Smith! 
 (pleasantly) I'd like a room. 
 All filled up. 
 (a beat) Got any idea where I might -- 
 (stiffly, shaking his head) This is 1945, mister. There's been a war on. 
 I thought it ended a couple of months ago. 
 Yeah, but the O.P.A. lingers on. 
 You don't know about the O.P.A... 
 (without looking up) Tell me. 
 Well, for establishments with less'n fifty rooms hotel keepers got to report regularly about... 
 ...about tenants and... and... registration... (drawing himself up) There are penalties imposed... 
 (eyes still on the ledger) You seem to have lots of vacancies. 
 (uncomfortable) Well... as I said... 
 Lots of vacancies. 
 They're everyone of 'em locked up. Some are show rooms... 
 Yes...? 
 (with touching sincerity) ...for cattle buyers, feed salesmen. The others -- they're spoken for, rented to cowboys, ranch hands... (Macreedy listens respectfully) They pay by the month. For when they come into town. We provide for their every wish and comfort. (weakly) You understand...? 
 Not really. But while I'm pondering it, get a room ready. Just for tonight. (picking key from rack at random) This one. 
 (signing) Sure could use a bath. Where is it? 
 Head of the stairs. 
 I don't know just why you're interested -- but the name's Macreedy. I'm... (grins) It's all in the ledger. 
 (slowly, his eyes glued to Macreedy's stiff arm) You look like you need a hand. 
 (reading aloud) John J. Macreedy. From Los Angeles. (looking up) I wanna know everything he does, Pete. Check every call -- any mail. 
 (nodding) And in the meantime...? 
 (grinning harshly) In the meantime, I'll crowd him a little... (looking up the stairs) ...see if he's got any iron in his blood... 
 (slightly amused) I think you have the wrong room. 
 (not budging) You think so? 
 What else you got on your mind? 
 Nothing, I guess. 
 If you had a mind, boy, you'd of heard what Pete downstairs said. He said these here rooms are for us cowboys. For our every wish and comfort. 
 And this, I guess, is yours? 
 When I'm in town. And I'm in town, as any fool can see. You see that, don't you, boy? 
 I guess I do. Would you mind very much if I sort of... (he gestures toward his suitcase and clothing) ...clean up this mess and get another room? 
 Not at all. But if you want this room real bad... (he raises his enormous bulk to a sitting position, rubbing the knuckles of one big fist with the palm of his other hand) ...we could maybe settle your claim without all this talk. (no answer from Macreedy) If a man don't claim what's rightfully his'n, he's nuthin'. What do you think? 
 I guess so. 
 You guess so. But still you ain't claimin' this room? 
 I guess not. 
 You're all the time guessin', boy. Don't you ever know anything? 
 One thing I know. Since I got off the train, I've been needled. Why? 
 (after a beat, slowly) I guess I don't rightly know. 
 (straight) Who? 
 (irritated) You know who! (Doc grins impishly; Sam's anger subsides) What do you think, Doc? 
 Why ask me? He's no salesman, that's sure. (again the impish grin) Unless he's peddling dynamite. 
 (squirming visibly) Maybe he's a cop, or something... 
 Ever see a cop with a stiff arm? 
 (squinting thoughtfully) Maybe his arm's all right. Maybe he's just holding tight to something in his pocket... 
 (scoffing) Like what? A pistol? A stick of T-N- T? (gleefully) To blow up this whole mangy, miserable town! (with sudden, almost naive, seriousness) Why are you so interested, Sam? 
 Who, me? 
 I mean, if I was that interested... (his eyes look up toward the hotel stairs o.s.) ...I'd ask him. 
 Hey! Hold it! 
 Got any cigarettes? 
 This is all. 
 How long you staying? 
 In my new room, you mean? (flatly) I'm staying. 
 I mean, in the hotel. 
 Just about twenty-four hours. (sharply) Why? 
 (flustered) I... I was just askin'. 
 (evenly) Why? You expecting a convention? 
 (doggedly) I was just askin'. 
 Stale. 
 Where can I rent a car? 
 I don't know. 
 (as to a child) Let's put it this way -- if I had a car and if I wanted to put gas in it, where would I go? 
 (refusing to cooperate) But you don't have a car. 
 (to Macreedy) You might try the garage at the end of the street. 
 Thanks. 
 (grinning wearily at Coley) Here we go again. 
 (deferentially, gesturing toward the open register) That's all I know about him, Mr. Smith. 
 (to Coley's back) Sit down. 
 (spinning to face him) I was only... 
 (interrupting) Sit down. 
 (after a pause) Pretty cool guy. 
 Doesn't push easy? 
 (frowning) That's it -- that's just it. He pushes too easy. Maybe we oughtta... 
 What do you want, Doc? 
 Nothing. (archly) I was just wondering what all you people were worrying about. (Smith looks at him coldly) Not that I have the slightest idea. 
 You wonder too much, and you talk too much. (pauses) It's a bad parlay, Doc. 
 I hold no truck with silence. (impishly) I got nothing to hide. 
 (suddenly towering over Doc) What're you tryin' to say? 
 Nothing, man. It's just, you worry about the stranger only if you look at him... (slowly) ...from a certain aspect. 
 How do you look at him, Doc? 
 (firmly) With the innocence of a fresh-laid egg. 
 (after a pause) Keep it up, Doc. Be funny. Make bad jokes. (he starts to walk toward the window, Doc and Hector following him) And some day I'll have Coley wash out your mouth with lye. 
 Hi, T.J. 
 This your garage? 
 (a beat) Where's the man it belongs to? 
 Where'd she go? 
 When will she be back? 
 (with a grin) Thanks. 
 I called the Circle T. He ain't got business there -- not if they don't know him. Right, Mr. Smith? 
 (to Hastings) Send a wire to Nick Gandi in Los Angeles. Tell him to find out all he can about John J. Macreedy. Tell him I want to know fast. Sign my name. 
 What was that? 
 Nick Gandi. G-A-N-D-I. Care of the Blake Hotel. 
 (after a beat) Who's Gandi? 
 He's a private detective. (beat) I drive to L.A. now and then. 
 (slightly worried) He'll get us the dope? 
 He'll get us anything, for twenty bucks a day and expenses. (Hector frowns) Hector, you worry too fast and too easy. 
 It's just, I don't like it. 
 Maybe he's just passing through. 
 Don't bet on it. He can only mean trouble. 
 (smiles faintly) Hector, you're jumpy as a stall horse. 
 (doggedly) We oughtta see him... talk to him. 
 (quietly) About what? (Hector doesn't answer) What'll we talk to him about? The birds, the bees? The weather? The crops? (pauses) You tried -- where'd it get you? 
 (uncomfortably) I only thought... 
 Sure. You only thought. 
 (after a beat) What do we do? 
 What do you do? You wait. Like Pete here. Right, Pete? 
 That's all you do. But while you wait... I talk to him. 
 (o.s.) Hey! 
 Now what do you know? (beaming) Mr. Macreedy seems to be heading for the jail. (impishly) Now what do you suppose he'd want to see the Sheriff about? 
 Hold it, friend. 
 (grinning) I ain't hankerin' to get locked in my own jail. 
 Sorry. I thought you were a guest. 
 As it happens, I'm the host. 
 Snort? 
 No, thanks. 
 Don't blame you. It's awful. 
 (suddenly mean) What're you lookin' at? 
 (easy) You tell me. 
 (after a beat, relaxing) I ain't always this bad -- just that last night me and my pal Doc Velie, we did a little celebratin'. At least I did. 
 What were you celebrating? 
 (shrugs) You name it. (studies Macreedy) What do you want? 
 My name's Macreedy. I came in on the Streamliner. 
 You what? 
 I said I came in... 
 (interrupting) You ain't from around here. Up Tucson way -- Phoenix? Mesa? You ain't sellin' cattle nor seed nor nothin' like that? 
 No. (sighs, then distinctly as to a child) All I want from you is a little information. I've got to get to a place called Adobe Flat. 
 (reacts; then, tight- lipped) This ain't no information bureau. 
 One thing about Black Rock -- everybody's polite. Makes for gracious living. 
 Nobody asked you here. 
 How do you know? (he moves toward the door, with a rueful grin) 
 (starting after him) What about Adobe Flat? 
 I'm looking for a man named Komako. 
 Almost a disaster. 
 (sinking back in his chair) A fate worse'n death. (he takes the bottle from Macreedy) You move fast for a crip... for a big man. 
 What about Komako? 
 (slowly) If there's no further questions... 
 (o.s.) Mr. Macreedy. 
 That's the friendliest word I've heard since I got here. 
 (grins boyishly) My name is Smith. I own the Triple- Bar ranch. (holds out his hand; Macreedy shakes it) I want to apologize for some of the folks in town. 
 They act like they're sitting on a keg. 
 A keg...? Of what? 
 I don't know. Maybe diamonds. Maybe gunpowder. 
 (disarmingly) No. Nothing like that. We're a little suspicious of strangers is all. Hangover from the old days. The old West. 
 I thought the tradition of the old West was hospitality. 
 (with a sincere smile) I'm trying to be hospitable, Mr. Macreedy. (boyishly pushes his dusty cap back on his head) Going to be around for a while? 
 Could be. 
 How would you like to go hunting tomorrow? I'd be proud to have you as my guest. 
 Thanks, but I'm afraid not. 
 (with admirable candor) You mean, because of your arm? (slaps Macreedy's shoulder in a friendly, understanding gesture) I knew a man once, lost an arm in a threshing accident. Used to hunt all the time. (almost too blandly) But he was quite a man. He... (pauses; then, with discreet and charming gravity) I'm sorry. I... What I mean is -- if there's anything I can do while you're around... 
 I'm looking for... (sighs) Never mind. Thanks, anyway. 
 (quietly) You're looking for what, Mr. Macreedy? 
 (eyeing him) A man named Komako. 
 (no hesitation) Komako -- Sure, I remember him -- Japanese farmer. Never had a chance. 
 No? 
 He got here in '41 -- just before Pearl Harbor. Three months later he was shipped to one of those relocation centers. (shaking his head) Tough. 
 Which one did he go to? 
 Who knows? 
 You think maybe if I wrote him, the letter would be forwarded? 
 I'm sure it would. Write your letter. I'll see it gets out tonight. 
 It wouldn't be too much trouble? 
 No trouble at all. 
 Funny. Because I think it would be a great deal of trouble for you. It's been a great deal of trouble for me. 
 I wrote these letters to Komako. They weren't forwarded. They were returned -- address unknown. (he smiles grimly at Smith) So I guess there's nothing you can do for me, after all. 
 (going to her) Need a little help? 
 I can manage. 
 Well, I need a little help. (she looks at him questioningly) I'd like to rent your jeep. 
 It'll be two dollars an hour, gas extra, and ten dollars for my time. 
 (to Liz) Aren't you going to ask him where he wants to go? 
 He wants to go to Adobe Flat. 
 The road's marked? 
 (nodding) Yeah. It's about six -- seven miles down... 
 Then I won't need your time. 
 (uneasily) I thought you might... need a little help. 
 I can manage. 
 Liz. Do you have a license to rent cars? You could get into trouble. 
 It's all right. I won't mention it to the Sheriff. 
 (slowly) You shouldn't have done that. 
 I thought it would be better if he went out there and got done with it. (Smith looks at her sharply) I mean, what could he find out? 
 (as he studies it) This is liable to be the hardest ten dollars you ever earned in your life. 
 (after a beat, disinterestedly) What did he want -- the stranger? 
 (abstractedly) He asked about Komako. (looking up at Smith) You think he'll kick up a storm? 
 (easily) A storm? About what? 
 I don't know. All I know, I don't want trouble around here. (pauses awkwardly, then) Never again. 
 Trouble? You don't know anything about Komako, now do you, Tim? 
 I do not. That's the point. 
 The point is, what you don't know can't hurt you. 
 Maybe there's something I ought to know. Maybe I ought to ask you... before the stranger comes back and starts breathing down my neck. 
 (a faint smile) Tim, you're a lost ball in the high weeds. I told you a long time ago, nothing happened for you to worry about. 
 (stands up, facing Smith) Thing is, I do worry. Maybe I ain't much else, but I'm sure a worrier. (beat, then with soft emphasis) And I'm still the law. 
 Then do your job, Tim. 
 What is my job, Mr. Smith? Maybe I'd better find out before Macreedy does it for me. 
 (evenly) Macreedy'll do nothing, Tim. And neither will you. 
 Suppose I decide to try? 
 That would be dangerous. You got the body of a hippo, Tim, but the brain of a rabbit. Don't overtax it. 
 (lowering his eyes, mumbling) Yes, Mr. Smith. 
 (to Smith) From L.A.? 
 Yeah! From that private detective! 
 (to Smith) What does he say? Who is this guy? 
 Never heard of him, that's what he says! He checked and there's no John J. Macreedy. No listing -- no record -- no information. Nothing. 
 (quietly, after a beat, to Smith) Where does that leave us? 
 I'll tell you where... 
 Shut up! 
 (turning to Coley) Now, Coley...? 
 (takes a breath, then) I think Macreedy's a nothing. A nobody. 
 Is he? 
 So there's nothing to worry about. 
 Isn't there? (a beat) You got brains, you have. 
 (squirming) But what can he find out? That Komako was...? (Smith glares at him) Suppose he finds out? 
 A nobody like Macreedy can raise a pretty big stink. The point is... who would miss a nobody like Macreedy if he just, say, disappeared? Who, Coley? 
 (exasperated) Coley! 
 (galvanized from the rail) Huh? 
 Why don't we wait... 
 Wait for what? 
 I mean, maybe he won't find anything. Maybe he'll just go away. 
 Not Macreedy. I know those maimed guys. Their minds get twisted. They put on hair shirts and act like martyrs. They're all of 'em do- gooders, trouble makers, freaks. 
 But there's no danger yet. Let's wait and see. 
 (interrupting, appealing to Coley as an equal) No danger, he says. This guy's like a carrier of small pox. Since he arrives, there's been a fever in this town, an infection. And it's spreading. (he glances from Coley to Pete) Hastings has been in a sick sweat, running around, shooting off his face. Doc, for the first time in four years, gets snotty with me. Liz... (to Pete) ...your own sister -- acts like a fool. 
 (hotly) She's just a kid. 
 (scoffing) Kid! She must have strained every muscle in her head to get so stupid! Renting him a jeep! And Tim -- Tim, the rum-dum. Tim suddenly decides he's gotta act like a Sheriff. (to Coley, gesturing at Pete) And he says what's the danger. 
 (easily) Of course, if you want to take the chance... 
 (grimly) Not me. 
 All right, then... 
 It's not all right! You're so mighty quick to kill -- he's not an animal! 
 (to Coley, with mock surprise) Well, listen to little spitfire... (turning slowly on Pete) You sniveling toad! I'm saving your neck! If I don't, who will? 
 (squirming) All I said... 
 Who will?! Doc? Tim? Your sister, with the rocks in her head? 
 One thing about your sister -- she's got twice the guts you have. You're only fit for running away. 
 It's too late for that. (belligerently, slowly, at Pete) He's in this, and he ain't running no place. 
 (finally) All right, then... 
 Let Smith find himself a new boy. I can't take it another day. (pauses, looks at Doc) If you're a sheriff, they gotta respect you, otherwise you can't do your job. (shakes his head) They just laugh. 
 I don't laugh, Tim. 
 Why don't you? 
 Cut it out, Tim. 
 You should! 
 In the name of well-adjusted manhood, snap out of it. You're going to get a complex or something. 
 Four years ago if I'd of done my job... if I'd of checked up and found out what happened. But I didn't! Just like Smith figured. 
 What could you have found out? They told you a story. You had to believe it. 
 Do you believe it? 
 Do you know what happened? 
 I don't know. (ironically) I lead a quiet, contemplative life. 
 Me, I didn't even try to find out. (a beat) Don't you understand? (he taps the badge on his chest) When you wear that badge, you're the Law. And when something happens, against the Law, you're supposed to do something about it. It's your job. (simply) Me... I did nothin'. And that's what's eatin' me. What kind of prescription you got for that? 
 I don't know. I've never been able to find one for myself. 
 Only one thing -- don't quit, Tim. 
 Why not? 
 Maybe this feller Macreedy has the prescription. 
 
 
 
 INSERT - ENGINE 
 Well, if it's not Macreedy - the world's champion road hog. 
 Yeah. It's a small world. 
 But such an unfriendly one. Now why did you want to crowd me off the road? 
 (with a slow grin) I'm kind of sorry if I've incurred your displeasure. 
 Look what you did to my car. 
 If there's anything I can do to make up for it... 
 You ought to be careful, man -- all that one-arm driving. 
 I'd be glad to pay the damages. 
 It's a threat to life and limb. 
 Fortunately no one was hurt. 
 You could get yourself killed that way -- nosin' all over the countryside. 
 That's the real danger, I can see that. 
 Why that's pretty smart of you. How long you intend to keep it up? 
 I'm getting out of here, right now. 
 (to Pete) Still expecting that convention? 
 (looking up) What...? 
 If you're expecting any extra cowboys, my room is available. 
 You're checking out? 
 (nodding) Is there a train through here tonight? 
 Nothing till tomorrow morning. The streamliner. 
 I know that. How about freights? (Pete shakes his head) Milk train? 
 Tomorrow. After the streamliner. 
 Busses? 
 Closest stop is Sand City -- thirty- two miles away. (a beat) You're in such a hurry, you should have never got off here. 
 I'm inclined to agree with you. 
 Anybody home? 
 (o.s.) If you're looking for the jeep key... 
 ...it's not there... 
 (after a beat) In that case, where do you suggest I look? 
 (over her shoulders) The jeep's not for rent. 
 It was, just a few hours ago. 
 (flatly) Things change. 
 (with grim amusement) Sure. And Smith is the kid who changes 'em. 
 Miss Brooks. (softly) What's the matter with this town of yours? 
 Nothing. It's none of your concern. 
 Then why are they all so concerned about me? 
 Am I concerned? 
 No, you're not. But... 
 But what? 
 (easily) But it strikes me you're a little too unconcerned. So unconcerned you won't even rent me a jeep. 
 (flaring) I don't run a taxi service. I don't have a license. 
 I wish others in this town were as scrupulously devoted to law and order as you are. 
 (hotly) Why don't you lay off! If you don't like it here, go back where you came from! 
 Funny thing. They try to kill me, and you feel persecuted. 
 I don't want to get involved. 
 Involved in what? 
 (retreating) Whatever you're up to. Whatever happens, I've got to go on living here. These people are my neighbors, my friends. 
 All of them? 
 (slowly) This is my town, Mr. Macreedy, like it or not. Whatever happened here, it was long ago, now it's... it's... 
 (evenly) Dead and buried? (a beat) Whatever did happen, you don't seem to like it. Why do you stick around? 
 (after a beat) Because of my brother. Pete. He'd never leave. 
 Didn't you ever think of going without him. You're sort of independent and he's... he's... 
 Weak. I know. That's why I couldn't leave him. 
 (softly) What did your brother do? 
 He... I... (flaring again) What do you care? What do you care about Black Rock? 
 Nothing much. Only, there're not many places like this in America -- but even one is too many. Because I think something sort of bad happened here. (frowning) Something I can't find the handle to... 
 You just think so. You don't know. 
 This much I know -- the rule of law has been suspended in this town. The gorillas have taken over. 
 You're a fine one to talk! You come in here, sneaking around, trying to steal the key to my jeep. 
 I kind of had a notion that was the only way I could get it. 
 (simply) Was I wrong, Miss Brooks? 
 (calling) Mr. Macreedy. (reasonably, as Macreedy turns toward him) I'd like to ask you a few questions... as long as you're around... 
 (walking up steps) I'm around all right. 
 (with just a touch of wryness) You probably know that Miss Brooks is no longer in the car rental business? 
 (solemnly) Good. I wouldn't want to see that girl get into trouble... 
 You wouldn't? 
 ...what with rental permits, gas rationing... you know what I mean. 
 Sure. I admire your sturdy sense of responsibility. 
 (dismissively) It's just, a girl like that has a future. 
 Let's talk about my future. 
 (almost slyly) Do you have the time? 
 I don't seem to be going any place. 
 (after a pause) I hear you handle a jeep real well. 
 I have a way with jeeps. A certain familiarity. 
 I think I understand. You're an Army man. (looking at Macreedy's stiff arm) Where'd you get it? 
 Italy. 
 (sincerely) Tough. I tried to get in myself, the day after those rats bombed Pearl Harbor. 
 What stopped you? 
 The physical. They wouldn't take me. The morning after Pearl, I was the first man in line at Marine recruiting in Sand City. And they wouldn't take me. 
 (flatly) Tough. 
 What do you do in Los Angeles, Mr. Macreedy? 
 I'm retired. 
 You're a pretty young man... 
 You might say I was forced into retirement. 
 What were you looking for in Adobe Flat? 
 Komako, like I told you. Like you told me, he wasn't there. 
 What's so funny? 
 Nothing. It's just -- I don't believe you. I believe a man is as big as what he seeks. I believe you're a big man, Mr. Macreedy. 
 Flattery will get you nowhere. 
 Why would a man like you be looking for a lousy Jap farmer? 
 Maybe I'm not so big. 
 Yes, you are. (a beat; looking hard at Macreedy) I believe that a man is as big as the things that make him mad. Nobody around here has been big enough to make you mad. 
 What makes you mad, Mr. Smith? 
 Me...? Nothing in particular. 
 (bemused) I see. You're a big man, too. Only... (calmly) ...the Japanese make you mad... 
 That's different. After the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor... after Bataan... 
 ...and Komako made you mad. 
 It's the same thing. (scoffing) Loyal Japanese-Americans -- that's a laugh. They're mad dogs. Look at Corregidor, the death march. 
 What did Komako have to do with Corregidor? 
 Wasn't he a Jap? Look, Macreedy, there's a law in this county against shooting dogs. But if I see a mad dog loose, I don't wait for him to bite me. (exhales sharply, shaking his head with irritation) I swear, you're beginning to make me mad. 
 (calmly) All strangers do. 
 Not all. Some of 'em. When they come here snooping. 
 Snooping for what? 
 I mean, outsiders coming around, looking for something. 
 (pressing) For what? 
 I don't know. People are always looking for something in this part of the West. To the historian, it's the "Old West." To the book writers, it's the "Wild West." To the businessmen, it's the "Undeveloped West." They all say we're backward and poor, and I guess we are. (snorts) We don't even have enough water. (a beat) But this place, to us, is our West. (heatedly) I just wish they'd leave us alone. 
 Leave you alone to do what? 
 (coldly) I don't know what you mean. 
 What happened to Komako? 
 He went away, I told you. Shortly after he left, a bunch of kids got fooling around out his place. They burned it down. It was one of those things -- you know how kids are. 
 What's funny? 
 Nothing. Only -- I don't believe you. Any more than I believed you about the letters. 
 (smiling) You don't seem to believe anything I say. 
 (vaguely) Yes, I do -- about businessmen, for instance. I think a businessman would be interested in Adobe Flat. 
 Why? 
 All that land lying fallow. Could be put to some use. Like a graveyard. (Smith opens his mouth to speak but Macreedy goes on) A historian might be interested, too. Because of the strange customs around here, such as burying cattle... 
 Burying cattle...? 
 (calmly) Something's buried out there. 
 See these wild flowers? That means a grave. I've seen it overseas. I figure it isn't a man's grave or someone would have marked it. Sort of a mystery, isn't it? 
 Sort of. Maybe you can figure it out. 
 Maybe. 
 Why not give it a whirl? (Macreedy turns) It'll help you pass the time... (continued; meaningfully) ...for a while. 
 Not interested. I got other things to do. 
 Hi. Pull up a chair. 
 (nodding) Can I use your phone? 
 Help yourself. (chuckles) You know, you're one of the few people who's ever been back here I can say that to. 
 It's 4-2-4. 
 (pausing) What's 4-2-4? 
 If I've got you pegged -- and I think I have -- you're calling the State Police. But if I was you -- and I'm purely glad I'm not -- I'd look it up myself. (emphatically) I wouldn't trust anybody around here, including me. 
 (to Doc) Thanks. (into receiver) 4-2-4. 
 
 (into phone) 4-2-4...? (he looks up) 
 (into phone) Lines 're busy. (he clicks off the instrument) 
 (sing-song) I know -- don't tell me -- lines all busy. They'll be busy all day. 
 (after a beat, grimacing) Don't look at me like that. 
 Like what? 
 Like I'm a potential customer. 
 Everybody is -- and I get 'em coming and going. 
 (gesturing toward it) First I sell 'em a piece of land. Think they farm it? Nope. They dig for gold. 
 They rip off the top soil of ten winding hills. They sprint in here, fog-heaved with excitement, lugging nuggets, big and bright and shiny. 
 (rhetorically) Is it gold? 
 It is not! Do they quit? They do not! 
 (with theatrical gesture toward reproduction) Then they decide to farm. Farm! In country so dry you have to prime a man before he can spit, and before you can say "Fat Sam" they're stalled, stranded and starving. They get weevil- brained and buttsprung... 
 (simply) So I bury 'em. (a beat, as he rejoins Macreedy in the center of the room) But why should I bore you with my triumphs? 
 Yeah. I've got a problem of my own. 
 (like an old testament prophet) They're going to kill you with no hard feelings. 
 (nastily) And you'll just sit on your hands and let them. 
 Don't get waspish with me, young feller. 
 Sorry. 
 I feel for you, but I'm consumed with apathy. Why should I mix in? 
 To save a life. 
 I got enough trouble saving my own. (he refills his glass from a milk bottle on the desk) I try to live right and drink my orange juice every day. But mostly I try to mind my own business. Which is something I'd advise you to do. 
 It's a little late for that... 
 You can still get out of town. And you'd better get out like a whisper. 
 How can I? 
 (taking a key ring from his pocket) I got sort of a limousine at your disposal. 
 Where is it? 
 (tossing him the key) Out back. 
 (concentrating on the dashboard) Won't start. 
 (nervously, to Macreedy) Something wrong? 
 Just won't start... 
 (gratuitously) Could be the wirin'. Why don't you look under the hood? 
 For that I thank you. (pause) How much time you think I've got before...? 
 They'll wait at least till dark. (angrily) They'd be afraid to see each other's faces. 
 (slapping Doc's shoulder lightly) Well, so long, Doc. I can't say it's been charming but... 
 Where are you going? 
 I don't know. But I'm going on foot. 
 That's no good. You stray ten yards off Main Street, and you'll be stone, cold dead. (offers Macreedy a cigarette) That's the situation, in a nut. 
 It's the wirin', like I said. Now wasn't that a good guess? 
 (quietly) It can be fixed. 
 Easy. Unless, of course, this here wire... (reaching inside the hood, pointing) ...got broke or something. 
 (suddenly, heatedly, turning on Hector) Do the nice little things, like keep your big fat nose out of my business. 
 (triumphantly, holding up the wires) Yep. It's the wirin'. 
 (softly, after a beat) I'm sorry, son. You got to admit, I tried. 
 (as if to himself) Maybe... 
 Maybe what? 
 If I can't get out of town, maybe I can get the state cops in. 
 (irritably) You tried the phone, didn't you? You know what happened, don't you? 
 There's another way. I'll be seeing you, Doc. 
 (calling) I hope you'll be seeing me. 
 You notifyin' the state po-lice? 
 (putting a bill on the counter) That's what it says. 
 (plaintively) Lemonade? 
 (mopping his forehead) It's hot as Billy-be-durned. 
 Don't you like lemonade? 
 I never thought much about it. 
 It don't have the muzzle velocity of some other drinks drunk around here, but it's good for what ails you. 
 (after a beat) What ails you, Mr. Hastings? 
 Me...? 
 Why are you so upset about... (points) ...this wire? 
 Me...? 
 Are you afraid, Mr. Hastings? 
 Me...? (a beat, then softly) I guess I am. (awkwardly he puts Macreedy's bill back on the counter) But what's the use talkin'...? (with grudging respect) You don't know what it's like, being scared. 
 (not unsympathetically) You want me to describe the symptoms? Right this minute I'm scared half to death. 
 (simply) You should be. 
 Yeah. But not of the state police. 
 (stonily) Neither am I. 
 Then what are you afraid of? The grave at Adobe Flat? A grave nobody marked, nobody knows anything about. 
 That ain't it, either. 
 Is it Smith? (no answer) Is it?! 
 (squirming) Look, Mr. Macreedy. I'm just a good neighbor... 
 To Smith you are. How about to Komako? 
 (meeting Macreedy's eyes) I never seen Komako in my life. Honest. 
 (again pushes the bill toward Hastings) Then send that wire, and bring me the answer. You'll do that, won't you? 
 (pauses, then worriedly picking up the bill) Yes, sir. 
. 
 I tell you, I won't have anything to do with it. 
 (nodding emphatically) Live and let live, that's what I say. 
 (frowning) I don't know. I just don't know. 
 (to Bentham) You gonna brood about it? Or you want another beer? 
 A beer, I guess. Only... 
 What'll you have? 
 What have you got? 
 Chili wit' beans. 
 Anything else? 
 Chili wit'out beans. 
 You don't like the taste, that's what they make ketchup for. 
 In that case, I'll have it. And a cup of coffee. 
 (to Macreedy, with menacing friendliness) You still around? I thought you didn't like this place. 
 (pleasantly) Going to, or coming from? 
 Staying put. 
 No comment. 
 (to Smith, gesturing a thumb toward Macreedy) No comment, he says. No comment, and all the time he's got my chair. 
 I always seem to be taking somebody's place around here. 
 This seat ain't comfortable. 
 I was afraid of that. 
 I think I'd like the seat you're on. 
 (to Macreedy, mildly) He's as changeable as a prairie fire. 
 (to Coley) Suppose you tell me where to sit. 
 (to Macreedy) I hope that ain't too much. 
 (to Smith, gesturing toward Coley) Your friend's a very [...] fellow. 
 (nodding) Sort of unpredictable, too. Got a temper like a rattlesnake. 
 That's me all over. I'm half hoss, half alligator. Mess with me, I'll kick a lung outta you. What do you think of that? 
 No comment. 
 Talking to you is like pulling teeth. You wear me out. (loudly, after a beat) You're a yellow-bellied Jap lover. Am I right or wrong? 
 You're not only wrong -- you're wrong at the top of your voice. 
 You don't like my voice? 
 (again turning to Smith) I think your friend's trying to start something. 
 Now why-ever would he want to do that? 
 I don't know. Maybe he figures, needle me enough and I'll crack. Maybe I'll even fight back. Then he or Hector -- your other ape -- would beat me to death and cop a plea of self-defense. 
 I don't think that'll be necessary. You're so scared now you'll probably drown in your own sweat. 
 Before that happens, couldn't I pick a fight with you if I tied one hand behind me...? 
 If I tied both hands...? 
 (to Smith) Wouldn't it be easier if you just waited till I turned my back? (looking toward the loafers at the bar, then back at Smith) Or are there too many witnesses present? 
 (with effortless ferocity) You're still in trouble. 
 So are you. (Smith snorts) Whatever happens -- you're lost. 
 You got things a bit twisted... 
 You killed Komako. Sooner or later you'll go up for it. Not because you killed him -- in this town you probably could have gotten away with it -- but because you didn't even have the guts to do it alone. You put your trust in guys like him... (gesturing toward the unconscious Coley) ...and Hector -- they're not the most dependable of God's creatures. Sooner or later they'll get the idea you're playing them for saps. What'll you do then -- peel them off, one by one? And in the meantime if any one of them breaks, you'll go down hard. Because they got something on you. Something to use when things get tough. 
 And they're getting tougher every minute. 
 (softly, full of awe) Man... man-oh-man. 
 STAIRWAY - MACREEDY 
 Anything for me? 
 Nothing. 
 Any message -- a telegram? 
 (returning to his cards) Nothing. 
 (to Macreedy, shrilly, gruffly) In case you're interested, Coley'll live. (glaring at Smith and Hector) I'm truly sorry to say. 
 (to Doc, jerking a fat hand toward Macreedy) Your friend's pretty tough. 
 Yeah. He's wicked. He defends himself when he's attacked. 
 (with some irritation) Well...? You going to just sit here and let time run out? 
 I'm waiting for a wire. From the state cops. 
 You sent it through Hastings? (an audible sigh) Just don't expect an answer, if that's the way you sent it. 
 (looking toward the door) No? (he rises) 
 (evenly, to Smith) I think that's for me. (he takes the message from Smith's hand and quickly glances at it. Looking up at Hastings) Where's the answer? 
 You expect an answer -- to a wire that's never sent? 
 What's so funny? 
 Nothing. Just a thought -- (his eyes turn to Hastings. Hastings wilts) -- a thought dazzling in its purity... 
 (slowly) You're in a jam, Hastings. You gave my telegram to Smith. 
 (excitedly) You warty wretch! That's a federal offense! 
 (to Smith) You're in deep, too. (grins hard) Like I said, it's getting tougher and tougher. (to Tim) Sheriff, you'd better do something about this. 
 (to Smith) I reckon that's right, Mr. Smith... 
 Don't be a jerk, Tim. 
 (to Smith, seriously) Divulging information -- there's a law... 
 Tim, you're pathetic. 
 (doggedly) Could be. But I'm still Sheriff. 
 That's the point. You're not Sheriff any more. You just lost a job, you're so pathetic. 
 (to Hector) All right, Sheriff. Take over. 
 You can't do that! 
 Can't I? I put him in office. Now I take him out. 
 Now. You want to register a complaint? 
 To register a complaint, boy, you've got to have evidence. You got evidence? 
 You got a big mouth, boy, makin' accusations, disturbin' the peace. There's laws in this county protectin' innocent folks from big mouths. Why, I'd just hate to... 
 (interrupting) Hector... (wearily) Come on, Hector. 
 (hopefully) It's all right, Tim. We're not licked yet. 
 (numbly) Ain't we? I am. 
 There comes a time, Tim, when a man's just got to do something. 
 Not me. I'm useless, and I know it. 
 (imploring) No man is useless, if he's got a friend... 
 I'm your friend, Tim. 
 Then let me alone. 
 (jabbing at Macreedy with a thumb) He's going to need you before the night is over. 
 (contemptuously) And all the useful men are on the other side. 
 (angrily) Lemme alone, I tell ya! 
 I can't let you alone! I can't let myself alone! Don't you understand that? (he turns from Tim to Pete, who is unable to shake his gaze. Then, sadly, fiercely) Four years ago something terrible happened here. We did nothing about it. Nothing. The whole town fell into a sort of settled melancholy, and the people in it closed their eyes and held their tongues and failed the test with a whimper. 
 Now something terrible is going to happen again, and in a way we're lucky because we've been given a second chance. And this time I won't close my eyes, I won't hold my tongue, and if I'm needed I won't fail. (almost harshly, again facing Tim) And neither will you! 
 I got such a headache, I'm bewildered. I hurt all over. 
 I know -- (unconsciously his right arm strays to massage the paralyzed left) -- pain is bewildering. I came here bewildered, full of self-pity, afraid to fight back. (gesturing with his hand to Pete) And then your friend Smith tried to kill me. (the muscles around Pete's mouth tighten) Funny, how a man clings to the earth when he feels there's a chance he may never see it again. 
 There's a difference between clinging to the earth... (eyeing Tim almost contemptuously) ...and crawling on it. You going to stand by and watch forever? 
 (flatly) I ain't gonna watch, and I ain't gonna get into it, either. 
 I'm gettin' out. I'm sorry, Mr. Macreedy. 
 (to Doc) You'd be smart to get out, too. 
 (angrily turning to Pete) There's too many smart guys around here. I'm glad I'm a dummy. 
 You're a troublesome dummy. You're liable to end up on your own slab... 
 (heatedly) I expect to be in a lot more trouble before I die... 
 Go home, Doc. (he jerks his head toward Macreedy, and with mock bravado...) He's all washed up. 
 (grinning harshly at him) You think so? 
 I was washed up when I got off that train... 
 (flatly) You shouldn' of got off. 
 Had to. I had one last duty to perform before I resigned from the human race. 
 (quizzically) I thought you were going to Los Angeles, that hot-bed of pomp and vanity. Is that resigning from the human race? 
 (shrugging) L.A.'s a good jumping off place -- for the Islands, for Mexico, Central America. 
 Why? 
 (again shrugs) I don't know. I was looking for a place to get lost, I guess. 
 Why? 
 (slapping his paralyzed arm with the whisky bottle) Because of this. I thought I'd never be able to function again. (turning to Pete) Thanks to your friend Smith, I found I was wrong. 
 (drily) Sure. You're a man of action. 
 (slowly) I know your problem. (with mounting vigor) You'd like me to die quickly, without wasting too much of your time... (Pete opens his mouth to say something, but Macreedy presses on) ...or silently, without making you feel too uncomfortable... or thankfully, without making your memories of the occasion too unpleasant. 
 (bitterly) My memories are so pleasant as it is... 
 (quietly pressing his advantage) What happened, Pete? 
 Are you going to tell him -- or you want me to? (beat) Smith owns Adobe Flat. He leased it to Komako -- thought he had cheated him, thought Komako could never even run stock without water. There was never any water on Adobe Flat. Komako dug a well, by hand. He must have went down one hundred and fifty feet. 
 He got water, plenty. Smith was pretty sore. He didn't like Japs anyway. 
 That's an understatement. 
 The day after Pearl Harbor, Smith went to Sand City. 
 (interrupting) I know. To enlist. He was turned down. 
 He was sore when he got back. About ten o'clock he started drinking. 
 Ten o'clock in the morning. 
 Yeah. Hector joined him, and Coley. Then Sam, and about nine p.m. -- me. We were all drunk -- patriotic drunk. We went out to Komako's for a little fun, I guess -- scare him a little. 
 Did you know him? 
 We'd seen him around some, but none of us knew him. When he heard us coming, he locked the door. Smith started a fire. The Jap came running out. His clothes were burning. Smith shot him. I didn't even know Smith had a gun. 
 Then you all got scared, buried him, kept quiet. 
 (softly) Did Komako have any family besides his son Joe? 
 (puzzled) His son...? Nobody around here knew he had a son. 
 He had one. But he's dead, too. He's buried in Italy. 
 What are you doing here, Mr. Macreedy? 
 Joe Komako died in Italy, saving my life. They gave him a medal. I came here to give it to his father. 
 (awfully) God forgive me... 
 (to Pete, harshly guttural) It'll take a lot of whiskey to wash out your guts... 
 ...And it will never help -- not even a barrel full washes away murder! 
 But maybe I'm wrong. Go on -- drink. (scornfully) What else is left for you?! (mounting anger) You're as dead as Komako, only you don't know it! (roaring) You also don't know that it's not enough to feel guilty. It's not enough to confess. It's not enough to say, "Forgive me, I've done wrong." 
 Take it easy, Macreedy. Sit down. 
 (turning on him) Sit down?! Or would you rather have me kneel, to beg his pardon for raising a touchy subject? 
 (shaking his head) You don't have to remind me. I've never forgotten... 
 Well, that's mighty noble of you. You feel ashamed -- that's noble, too. (in mounting crescendo) And four years from now you'll probably be sitting here telling somebody else you haven't forgotten me. That's progress -- you'll still be ashamed but I'll be dead. 
 Go on, have your drink. (with exorbitant scorn) You need it. 
 (leaning over counter, staring at him) What are you doing? 
 (into phone, ignoring Doc) Hello, Liz. Now listen... I... 'm getting Macreedy out of town... 
 (into phone) I don't care about Smith! Let him try to kill me -- I might as well be dead as... 
 (into phone, interrupting) Liz, Liz... There's not much of me left any more, but however little it is I won't waste it! (again Liz's voice briefly; then...) I'm telling you because we need your help. (again Liz's voice) ...No matter about the past -- you've got to do this! You'd be saving two lives, Liz. Macreedy's, and mine. (again Liz answers and...) All right. Yeah... I've told him everything. 
 (flatly) She'll be here in five minutes. 
 Thanks, Pete. Thanks very much. 
 (controlling his jangled nerves) Hector! 
 Hmmmm? 
 What you want? 
 He's still in his room. Macreedy, I mean. 
 So...? You want me to tuck him in? 
 I thought maybe you wanted to tell Smith. 
 (explaining something he feels Pete already knows) Smith said he'd be here at midnight. He don't want to be disturbed. 
 You got a match? 
 Come on. I got some in the lobby. 
 I thought you didn't have a match. 
 (with a half smile) I'll never forgive you, Doc... (he gestures toward Hector, out cold) ...for depriving me of that pleasure. 
 Sorry I can't get more out of this heap. 
 (with a burst of irritation) We could make better time with a dog team. 
 (calmly) You're doing the best you can. (a beat) Aren't you, Liz? 
 Don't expect too much from me. 
 (dryly) Don't worry, I won't. 
 (quickly) I mean, people have always expected things from me. You know why? Because I'm pretty. Well, that's not enough. 
 (softly) Maybe I could have been something -- a model, or something. (glancing at him) You don't believe that. 
 Yes I do. 
 Well, I don't, really. I'm a dime a dozen. 
 That I don't believe. 
 I'm too little and too late. 
 It's never too late. 
 I lack the muscle. 
 (frowning) Why is muscle so important? 
 (cynically) Oh, you're the brainy type. (harshly) Did it take brains to rough up Coley? Whatever you did to Hector, you didn't do it with brains. How'd you get Pete to change his mind? 
 Not with muscle. 
 And not with brains, either. He's a pushover for a muscle man. 
 I'm beginning' to think it runs in the family. (looking at her hard) You think strength is in the width of a man's shoulders. 
 I'd sure have liked to see you tangle with Reno Smith. 
 He wasn't around when I left... Maybe I will yet. 
 (alert, expectant) What's this? 
 (vamping nervously) We need water... (she turns off engine, pulling ignition key from its lock) ...radiator's overheating. 
 Leggo! Leggo of me! 
 (harshly, through his teeth) You're stupid, Liz. You're a fool. If he finishes me, he's got to finish you. 
 (calling toward the headlights) Smitty! Smitty! 
 SMITH'S VOICE (o.s.) I'm here, honey. Just head for the car. 
 (an almost bantering voice) So long, Macreedy. 
 (o.s.) Just a few more steps, honey. 
 (breathlessly) Get him! Get him now! 
 (easily) First things first, honey. 
 (unsure, reaching out her hand) Help me up, Smitty. 
 You were going to help me, Liz. (she looks at him quizzically) I still need your help. 
 (confused) I did what you said... 
 You two started out in a car. That's the way you'll end up. Over a cliff, burning. (she tries to interrupt him, but he goes on...) You can blame that on Macreedy, too. He said I had too many witnesses. 
 (dry whisper) But why me? Why start with me? 
 I got to start with somebody. 
 (yelling wildly) Macreedy! Macreedy! 
 (sadly, almost reproachfully) You shouldn't have done that... 
 
 (through his teeth) Go ahead -- kill me. Now. 
 I'd like to kill you now, but you caused too much pain to die quickly. (a beat) You'll be tried in a court of law. You'll be convicted by a jury. Then you'll die. 
 (tonelessly, prodding Smith off the fender with his rifle) Hands behind your head. 
 (after a beat) Am I going to have trouble with you? 
 Nope. But I sure thought the situation was going to be like reversed. I thought I was going to have trouble... (nodding sharply in Smith's direction) ...with him. I'll take care of him. 
 (still hesitating) Just as you took care of his buddies? 
 Just as I took care of his buddies. Me, an' Doc, and Pete... 
 (to Macreedy) It's all right, Macreedy... 
 Old Tim here's got his badge back. 
 (looking around) Well. The gang is all here. 
 I thought I'd take one last whack at my job. Even if Smith killed me for it. 
 (jerking his head toward Smith) Put him in with Hastings. 
 Your sister's outside, Pete. 
 (flatly) She's dead. 
 (walking, after a beat, to Doc) Tim knows where to find me if I'm needed. 
 What's on your mind, Doc? 
 Nothing. Only... about that medal. Can we have it? 
 "We...?" Can who have it? 
 We. (indicating the townspeople, with a vague wave of his hand) Us. 
 Why? 
 Well, we need it, I guess. It's something we can maybe build on. This town is wrecked, just as bad as if it was bombed out. Maybe it can come back... 
 Some towns come back. Some don't. It depends on the people. 
 (still pressing) That medal would help. 
 Thanks, Macreedy. Thanks for everything. 
 (curiously) What's the excitement? What happened? 
 A shooting. 
 I knew it was something. First time a streamliner stopped here in four years. 
 Second time. 
 
 PHOENIX 156 MILES 
