 HER FACE. FLASHES . She looks gorgeous, then ordinary, sloppy, white waitress uniform, gorgeous again, dishes stacked in her arms, turning, looking, happy, tired. INTERCUT TITLES. 
 Hi, can I help you? What would you like? Want a menu? Hey Billy. Hey Tom. You take care, Rosie. 
 Sure thing, Annie. Have a good one. That's two straight up. You're good to go. Morning. Hey there. Morning to you. (beat, embarrassed) What? (looks down, sees she's carrying lunch food) Right. Afternoon. 
 What can I get you? Whattaya like? Whattaya want? (rolls eyes; good-humored rejection of a.come-on:) Nice try, bud - 
 Why not? My grandfather was a lawyer... Plus: I have a logical mind... 
 And you're only like 299 thousand short of what you'd need for law school. 
: 
 I Piece of cake - 
 Piece of pie - 
 Piece of ass. So what would you do? 
 I don't know... 
 
 - 
 
 In what? I thought you hated - 
 Psychology maybe, I don't know. I know it's not cool to say so, but I'd like to contribute something to society, even if - (it's just) 
 We contribute. We give 'em food, energy, so they can go out and save Western Civilization - A bell rings, a CUSTOMER comes in, and the owner of the place, PHIL (45, Syrian, also the cook) sticks his head between them: 
 Ladies, please. Am I paying you? 
 Not that we noticed. 
 (SEES CLOCK: 11:15) Oh my God, speaking.of time - The lunch rush is coming; they start working triple speed - 
 Ever try the rock, hey? 
 Excuse me? 
 The deodorant thing. It's salts or something, it comes in like a...it looks like some kinda hippie crystal. 
 You're saying I sweat. 
 Perspire, Ginny. You lightly - 
 (PERSPIRE) 
 (a vow to get even) I'll remember that. (as someone comes in) Your turn, I'm sweatin' too much. Slim gives her a look, grabs a menu, goes over to where the new customer, whom we will call for the moment OUR HERO, is seated. 
 Waiting for somebody? He shakes his head. She can't help noticing he's very handsome. 
 SLIM (CONT. Something to drink? 
 Just water, thanks. 
 I'll give you a minute to look over - 
 That's okay. I was in yesterday... (reads her nametag) Slim. She nods, slightly uncomfortable. He hands her his menu. 
 What's your real name? 
 No. 
 Hmm. I like it, but don't you think it's kinds negative? 
 No, I don't tell my name. 
 Okay. Coke and a turkey burger, coleslaw no fries, couple extra slices tomato. I write books. 
 Oh. 
 You read books? She kind of half-nods half-shrugs. 
 Finneaan's Wake by James Joyce. A friend told me it's the hardest book in the English Language. Not the hardest hardest, just the hardest one it's actually possible to read, and I figure if I can get through that one, I can do the others. 
 How long you been reading it? 
 Six years. I'll be back with your 
. She leaves, goes back puts the order in, mutters to Ginny: 
 SLIM {CONT.} Asshole. 
 What'd he say? 
 Wanted to find out how smart I was so I told him I was reading the hardest book in the English language. 
 He likes you. 
 I think he's just a dick. 
 Slim...he was in yesterday - 
 I know - 
 And he's back today with a rose, he pulls you into conversation. Honey, if you can't tell he likes you, you need to study psychology. 
 Okay, so he likes me. 
 Do you like him? 
 I don't know him. 
 What's that got to do with it? Slim: he is a major piece of cake/piece of pie. 
 I didn't notice. 
 Trust me. Carrot cake. And when a guy like that - cuter than you? - he actually likes you - 
 He's cuter than me?? tinny gives her a long stare; this is obviously a favorite 
: 
 Hey. Wise up, huh? No-one is ever gonna go for you 'cause of your looks. 
 
 (NODS SOBERLY) That is bad news, 'cause my personality bites. Ginny grins. Slim writes up a check for a CUSTOMER at the counter. When she finishes, the turkey burger is up. She carries it to the table: 
 TB, coleslaw, and so forth. You don't really write books, do you? 
 Nope. 
 I don't read Finnecan's Wake either. 
 I'm goin' into law. Enforcement. She nods. This is more like what she expected. 
 Who's the rose for? He shrugs. She's busy, so she starts to go: 
 Enjoy your grub, huh? She's seven feet away when she hears: 
 
 - Sheturns back toward him - He smiles, offers the rose: 
 You. She smiles back-their eyes meet... a sudden utterly magical moment. This is also the moment to.note should be played by a famous actor doing a cameo. Because at this instant the scene changes. The man (MITCH) in the booth behind Our Hero - a man we haven't noticed because all we've seen is the back of his head - turns and looks at Slim. Stands. Looks down at Our Hero... 
 How much did you settle on? 
 Excuse. me? Slim frowns, steps closer so she can overhear: 
 The bet. How much is it? Our Hero has a completely blank look on his face - 
 MITCH (CONT.) You and your friend. Yesterday. Was it 200 or 500 or - ? 
 
 He bet his friend he could get in your pants in less than twelve hours, starting noon today. Our Hero rises to his feet and pushes Mitch in the chest, which looks like a stupid move, since Mitch is bigger - 
 Is this your business? (right in Mitch's face) What are you, the morals police? He pushes again and Mitch,s hand shoots out like a snake striking. Grabs him by the collar. Lifts him. A frozen moment, more violence just a breath away, and a sense of things about to spin out of control... Our Hero's eyes are popping; he tries to hide his fear: 
 Take it easy, M...man. She and I were just having some fun - 
 (to our Hero) Was it two hundred or five? 
 The bet was two, but now that I know you? Way too high. A pained look flashes across Slim's face - Our Hero starts toward the door, but Mitch steps in his path. Speaks quietly but with authority; there's a physical power in his words. Since he's protecting Slim, the power is 
 Don't come back here, buddy. Ever. Our Hero nods nervously. Mitch steps back 3 inches, just far enough to let our Hero leave. Which he does with considerable relief. Slim's leaning vs. the counter, shaken, tears in her eyes - Mitch tugs his baseball cap, mutters as he heads for the door: 
 Sorry to get in your business. 
 No. Hey. Thank you. He nods, keeps going. 
 SLIM (CONT.) (blurts out, grateful:) I... I can't believe you actually said something. 
 (turns, shrugs) If I'd kept my mouth shut, I'd'a felt bad later. Good luck, huh? She nods. He ambles out the door. A touch of the cowboy in him. She shakes her head, looks at Ginny. Ginny gestures as if to say, well? At first Slim doesn't get it. Ginny gestures more urgently: Come on. What're you waiting for? She looks toward the door - Slim follows her look. PUSH IN ON SLIM'S FACE as she tries to work up the courage... Just as she starts toward the door, we: 
 
: Wedding photos. Mitch has lots of (surprisingly upper crust) family, Slim has a few friends. The more photos FLASH, the more pronounced (and sad), the contrast. FLY RIGHT INTO: Bacchanalian DANCING. French Champagne has flowed; shoes and inhibitions were abandoned hours ago. THE CAMERA weaves through the DANCERS to find: Slim and Mitch, dancing close, never quite touching, every move intense, physical, like subtle public sex. Their eyes are locked; she runs her veil down his body, his hand lightly touches her ass; they slow down and stand, lips a millimeter apart but not quite kissing, the sexual tension building... We see how crazy they are about each other, how completely physically involved - and how much fun they have. Watching them is Phil, with Mitch's parents, MRS. TYLER (58, confident, at ease with her power and family money, and likeable despite monstrous flaws) and MR. TYLER (someone Mrs. Tyler married in a moment of cupidity). 
 MRS. TYLER Mitch was kind of.. .evasive. Is her father dead too? 
 Dead to her. He left when she was two. 
 MRS. TYLER Oh. Well, I'm happy to pay for the 
 - 
 MR. TYLER Yes, we're very happy - 
 MRS, TYLER (ignoring Mr. T.) It's a way to build bridges... Not that you can... (repair all the damage) When there's such a vast body of water... 
 You don't get along with your son? She gives him a look. She's both offended by, and appreciative of, his bluntness. Looks out at Mitch: 
 MRS. TYLER He's like my father. Which means, I guess, that he'll do very well. 
 He's done well to get Miss Slim. 
 MRS. TYLER Yes, he has, hasn't he? He's married down, but he's gotten value. As Phil reacts, he notices his wife, SALIMA, has joined him. With her are two kids (5 and 2). Salima's looking out at the floor: not at Slim, but at Ginny and her dance partner. We see a thought cross her mind. She bends down and whispers conspiratorially to the kids. They whoop their response, run out to Ginny (who looks quite uncomfortable in her Maid-of-Honor dress). 
 Don't eat at their ice cream, huh? They squeal with pleasure and run off. Ginny turns back, resumes dancing with JOE (24, handsome in a casual way, a good guy): 
 So this was during college or after? 
 During. 
 What was wrong with you? (off his puzzled look) I mean-why'd you and Slim break up? 
 Oh. Well. I'm terrible in bed. (lets this hang for a moment for shock value, then:) Plus, I don't know: we just sort of.. . evolved into being friends. 
 Evolution? You were going the wrong direction, bud. 
 That's kinda what .1 thought, but I guess I was so totally pathetic - 
 Why am I not believing this? 
 If you've got a sense of humor. 
 My kids are out for the night, and... 
 Another thing: I live in Chicago; women always want the possibility of 
 LONG-TERM - 
 I didn't propose, huh? I just want to have... (looks at him...) a brief and completely unsatisfying sexual encounter. 
 Hey. I'm your guy. She pulls him into a kiss, and...well: he's not a bad kisser... We glide from them to Slim and Mitch, hardly moving. Suddenly: tender and insecure and almost comic, she looks at him... 
 You sure,you love me? 
 Uh-huh... 
 For ever and ever? He stops dancing. Senses the real issue beneath her questions: 
 You're safe with me, Slim. You're safe, and it's okay to be happy. We deserve it. They kiss. Others stop to watch: how cute. Phil comes over, waits. When they break: 
 I'm sorry, I gotta get up five o'clock to buy green beans. He slips an envelope into Mitch's hand: 
 In my country, it's tradition to give money to groom. You don't need it, but... Slim shakes her head, touched, as: 
 That's very sweet - 
 
 (HUGGING PHIL) Thanks for giving me away, okay? You're the best substitute Dad a girl could possibly have. 
 No substitute. I am real thing. She kisses him, and he goes. They look after him. 
 He really loves you. She nods, not quite picking up how odd his statement is: of course he loves her; she nicked him to give her away. Mitch turns her toward him and slips his hands inside the top of her dress (so the back of his hands touch her breasts; is this going too far?). He pulls her to him, whispers: 
 You gonna give me babies? 
 Oh yeah. 
 How soon? 
 How soon can we get out of here? He hoists her into his arms and carries her off the floor. Applause from the GUESTS. It's a grand romantic gesture. You have to wonder if Mitch is just a little too good to be true... 
 
 Hello? 
 Hi. We've been driving around, and my wife has completely fallen in love with your house. 
 It's great, isn't it? 
 We want to buy it. The Home Owner's jaw drops as Mitch gestures toward his bulging 
: 
 MITCH (CONT.) My wife wants it for our family. 
 (polite but firm) Well...we're not selling. 
 Sure you are. 
 That's the price. Don't worry, it's well over-market. 
 (stunned, a little scared) You... You're out of your mind. 
 I know. That's just it. So before you say no again, think how miserable one determined crazy person can make you. Miserable today, miserable tomorrow, miserable for every single day until the day you sell. We glimpse the Home Owner's will just starting to crumble... 
 MITCH (CONT.) Your kids are grown, you'll be happier in a smaller place. MOVE OFF the Owner's face... SLOW PAN TO the window of the house .the SENSE that time is passing... and when we reach the window, we see SLIM inside. MOVE THROUGH the window... 
 It's Slim, is he there? Water is flooding down the barstool; she's miscarried. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Well, will you please just... Just tell him I'm sorry, okay? 
 
 You saw the doctor? It's so obvious from her face that she barely needs to'say it: 
 I lost this one too. 
 Can I hold her? The Nurse looks at Slim,. who nods, and gives Mitch the baby. 
 She looks just like my baby pictures. His cell phone rings again. As if the previous call had been a signal. Slim looks at him as the phone keeps ringing. With some difficulty, juggling the baby, he turns the phone off. But he doesn't look at Slim. 
 Who was that? 
 I don't know. Who cares? Some construction thing, I guess. She stares at him. He stares at the baby. 
 Isn't she the most beautiful thing you ever saw in your life? Slim nods cautiously. 
 Hey. 
 Hey. 
 
 I'm about to get out. 
 (down to her panties) Oh. 
 I have to go to back to work, I'm just doing this to wake myself up. 
 
 
 (CALLS) Sorry. 
 
 WOMAN'S VOICE 
 You just paged my husband, right? 
 (HALF BEAT) Mitch. 
 (HALF BEAT) Who are you, what's your name? 
 WOMAN'S VOICE I'm sorry, I - 
 It's too late to deny it. Tell me your - (name) A rustle on the other end - 
 SLIM (CONT.) Don't hang upl Don't be a cowardl Silence. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Just your name. That's the least you could do, don't you think? A simple plea, one woman to another... 
 WOMAN'S VOICE I'm...Darcelle. Not only the name. Now we hear it in the accent: she's French. Dialtone. Slim goes into slow motion. How oddly her arm moves downward. She looks at the phone. Blinks. Presses OFF. Scans the room as if she's never seen it before. One of Gracie's toys lies on the floor. Slim stares at it. Reaches down to pick it up, but instead of the toy moving up, her body moves down. She slumps to the floor. Sits. Stares. 
 Hey. She doesn' t say anything. He approaches her. Some instinct keeps him from speaking. He sees she's holding his phone, the silly toy... 
 How can you do this to Gracie? He doesn't say anything. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Darcelle paged you. That' s where you're going, right? (off his silence) Yeah. Wow. Mitch? Can you please? Can you sit here with me? He does. She doesn't know where to start, how to talk about it... 
 She's French? 
 She isn't important. 
 No. 
 You're important. 
 Yes. 
 And Gracie. She nods. 
 Mitch?, I can't... I couldn't stand for this to... (destroy our lives) I'm happy, I've really been happy, and I don't want to - (give that up) 
 You won't have to. Believe me. She's nothing, she's no-one - 
 You... Damn it! You said I was safe with you! 
 You are, Slim. You are. I promise. They fall into an embrace. We feel how keenly they need each other. 
 I smell her. 
 What? 
 Her perfume. Darcelle or whoever. 
 
 - 
 (intense, sad) How many, Mitch? How many are there? How many have there been? 
 What does it matter? A stunning statement. Even more stunning because of the casual way he says it. 
 MITCH (CONT.) ID I mean what're you saying here, that I don't deserve to get laid? Please. I'm a man, Slim. With the pregnancies, Gracie, you don't have time and energy like you used to, and I understand that, I really do. Men and women have different needs, and that's okay. Darcelle is willing to take care of it, and maybe that's better for everybody. 
 Including you? He contemplates his answer...and shrugs. 
 No! No! No! 
 Calm down, Slim - Wild, violently invading his space and assaulting his authority, screaming at him, her face just inches from his: 
 I can't do this anymore! I can't! Just take it, and take it, and take it!? I'm not strong enough! I don't know who would be. I love you, okay? I love you and I'm your wife and you can't do this! You understand me?!!! No more! No more! With the same speed he attacked "Our Hero" at the diner, Mitch's hand shoots out like a snake striking. Slaps her. A warning: stop it and stop it now. Her face: shock. Confusion. Outrage. She raises her hand to her cheek. Touches her skin where his fist landed... He reads her expression and is almost amused: 
 What, I can't hit you? 
 (low, strong) No. You can't. He hits her again, this time with a closed fist. 
 You want to fight? I'm a mom, honey; it's no contest. She's silent, but we see (very small) her reaction: Oh yeah?? 
 MITCH {CONT.} You have to understand, Slim. I thought you did: make the money here, so I set the rules, right? It's my rules. He waits for her response, but again she's silent. 
 You with me? 
 It's your rules. 
 Yeah. She keeps her voice meek so as not to offend: 
 And if I don't like the rules?? 
 If you don't "like" them?! She nods cautiously. 
 MITCH {CONT.} Come on. Life isn't onl stuff we like. We take the good with the bad, right? That's what life is, what marriage is. So maybe, for you, today is a bad day. Tomorrow may be great. 
 Tomorrow may be great. 
 That's right. 
 Tomorrow will be great. (Without you . ) He appears to miss her inference. 
 Yeah. Today is the price you pay for having such a good life. She stares at him. 
 I'm going out. She says nothing. 
 MITCH {CONT.} This is gonna be better, don't you think? She just cannot process the absurdity of this statement. 
 MITCH {CONT.} I don't have to sneak around, pretend I'm going to work. I can just say: "I'm going to Darcelle's, I'll be back in a few hours." Her face is completely blank. He bends down, gives her a kiss on the head. We feel her skin crawl. She watches him go. Waits. Hears the front door close. She gets up, walks to the window, watches him walk toward his car. She turns away, looks at the room. We HEAR his car start. She goes to the phone. Thinks. Starts to dial-slowly, deliberately... Shock: RAP AT THE WINDOW! He's there. 
 Who you calling? 
 Your mother. 
 What're you gonna tell her? 
 I'm supposed to bring Gracie tomorrow. Maybe I better cancel. 
 
 (NODS) I was thinking. You...you know that I adore you, but if you ever want...if you want out... For a second he can't talk. He's choked up. She watches coldly. His emotion appears real, but who cares? 
 MITCH (CONT.) .I'll understand. I really will. 
 (ALMOST TENDER) But there's one thing: you can't have Gracie. She's my daughter. Don't even think about taking her. Slim stares at him. He adds calmly: 
 MITCH (CONT.) If I see that thought even cross your mind, I'll kill you. There. He's said what he needs to. He walks toward his car. She shuts the window. Stares after him. In an odd and defiant way, she starts to whistle. Loudly. To herself. Almost daring him. 
 
 MRS. TYLER You're late, you're late, I was worried you wouldn't comet (looks, realizes) No Gracie? Slim shakes her head. Mrs. Tyler is clearly disappointed, but quickly covers it up: 
 MRS. TYLER Well then, you and I will have a girls' luncheon and gossip about simply everybody! She's about to hurtle into the gossip when Slim turns her head and Mrs. Tyler sees (and we see for the first time) the result of Mitch's brutality: a nasty bruise on Slim's cheek. Mrs. Tyler's face falls as she realizes what this means. Underneath it all, she's a warm person; she hugs Slim: 
 MRS. TYLER Oh baby. Oh baby, I'm so sorry... 
 Men are land mines. Some you trigger the first week, others it's years in. Problem is: you want a man man, meaning his veins run thick with testosterone, which is good 'cause he can fuck your brains out but he can also turn around, no warning, and beat your brains out too. 
 I never touch Salima. Ginny waves at him: of course not. 
 But the other part, first part: I can - (do that) 
 Relax, Phil. Nobody's talkin' about your dick here, okay? Phil brings Slim an iced tea and slice of pie: 
 You went to cops, I hope? 
 (Don't be stupid.) Mitch is in construction, Phil. 
 
 (NODS) He knows every cop in the city. 
 Even if he didn't. My aunt? She got a restraining order? When it was up, this slimeball beat her into a coma. 
 If he wants to put her in coma, why worry restraining order? 
 'Cause he's a man, Phil! He's psychotic! (calmly, to Slim) You're leaving him today. Right now. 
 (shakes her head, trapped) I gotta pick up Gracie at pre-school. 
 Your husband got her. 
 What?? 
 MITCH'S VOICE 
 (FOR DARCELLE) How is my little croissant? 
 It's your loaf of bread. 
 MITCH'S VOICE (cheerful, no guilt) Oh. Hi. How's it going? 
 Where are you? 
 MITCH'S VOICE Zoo. 
 Why didn't you tell me you were going to - (pick up Gracie) 
 MITCH'S VOICE I called you at home, left messages - He's interrupted by a LOUD SQUEAL from Gracie, followed by a question, which he answers: 
 GRACIE'S VOICE Hey Moml The elephants are peeing! 
 MITCH'S VOICE (pleased with himself for being a good Dad) She's a little excited. 
 When are you coming home? 
 It made me nervous when I couldn't reach you. Slim shrugs. He stares at her. Smiles. His voice so soft and calm: 
 MITCH {CONT.} Do you have any idea how bad things can get? 
 Educate me. 
 (embarrassed to say it) Slim. I'm a determined person. I was determined to have you, and I did. This house...the company...I am, and always will be, a person who gets what he wants. You can either share in my success or leave us (meaning him and Gracie) right now. Which way you wanna go? Beat. 
 I want to be happy. He's not sure of her subtext, but he's willing to give her the benefit of the doubt : 
 Good. With a sudden shock, Slim sees Gracie staring at Mitch: the girl has picked up on his tone. Slim glances at Mitch to see if he notices Gracie's expression. He doesn't. 
 Maybe she didn't hear the signal. 
 She heard it. 
 No. Teddy's right. She could still be asleep - 
 She's not asleep, okay? She's coming out any second. Phil nods. They wait. She does not come out. Ginny shakes her head, looks at her watch. 
 Do it again. Teddy nods. Cups his hands, coos like a dove... They wait again. Beat. 
 We better go in. 
 It'd be crazy to wake him. If anything's wrong, she'll flick the lights. .Right? Phil nods skeptically, and Ginny herself doesn't seem so sure. They look at the house-and wait. . .and wait... We want to scream: "GO IN! GO! SAVE HER!" Suddenly something. Subtle. Was that A SOUND from inside??? They go on alert. . .step forward... listen more closely... But hear nothing unusual. 
 Another step and you're dead. Mitch emerges from darkness. Light glints off his pistol. Thirty feet behind him: Gracie's sleeping on the couch. Mitch moves and they stare in horror. Lying at his feet is Slim's body.. Pain springs from Ginny's throat, she rushes to Slim - Mitch rams the gun into her head: 
 Didn't you hear me?i Ginny feels Slim's pulse, says to Phil: 
 She's alive - 
 Unless you go, your brains'11 be on imy rug i 
 Sir. We are three people. If you kill us all, you will go sure to electric chair. 
 I could give a shit. Slim makes a SOUND as Ginny strokes her head... Mitch FIRES the gun into the wall over Ginny's head. Muffled sound: silencer. But he has everyone's attention now: 
 MITCH (CONT.) This is your last chance. 
 We are happy to leave, Sir: with Miss Slim and Gracie. Ginny's helping Slim to her knees. 
 PHIL (CONT.) And make no mistakes. If you keep them here, we will go to police, who will arrest you with pleasure. 
 I don't want to say this in front of the group, but you're just a rug-head, nobody'll believe you. You go to the cops, it's her word against mine. They'll find drugs in her bureau... (before Phil can laugh) Or her car, whatever. 
 
 That's right. 
 Then we die young. The others are uncertain, but Phil helps Slim up; Teddy joins him. Ginny tentatively follows his lead and picks up Gracie.. 
 
 What? 
 (a little louder) He'll come after me and kill me. Mitch overhears this, smiles. 
 You hear that? That's why she loves me. (off their horrified looks) Nobody cares like I do. The others stare at him in astonishment, but continue toward the door. Mitch leans toward Slim, whispers: 
 See you soon. 
 CHECK, PLEASE 
 Wow ... whattaya think, Toots? 
 It's a big ocean! 
 Well. It's only a lake, but we like it. 
 (nods, stares out... Can we stay here a while? 
 Coming up, whattaya say?! 
 GRACIE & SLIM 
 (A) Bobbing for apples! Slim (front seat) and Gracie (back) both drop their heads so they can't be seen from outside the car - Joe turns the corner, presses a garage door opener, and drives into the basement garage of a nice-looking 4-plex. 
 Is there anybody who likes ice cream? Gracie whoops - The doorbell rings - 
 Yes? 
 Go ahead. 
 You got a search warrant? 
 Can I she the warrant? First FBI Man ignores this. 
 JOE (CONT.) Who're you looking for? The FBI Man gives him a sarcastic glance. 
 JOE (CONT.) A mother taking her own child isn't kidnapping. I don't think you're FBI at all. This elicits no response. Joe moves to where he can see the other two guys. Looks down the hall toward: 
 Mister: unless you leave right now, I'm calling the police. 
 That's enough. 
 (trying not to move) No. 
 No. 
 Jesus, are you okay? 
 I guess. (feels his neck) I needed a shave, anyway. The phone rings. They look at it. It can't be who they think it is... it rings again. Joe goes to it. Hesitates. Answers: 
 Hello? 
 MITCH'S VOICE This is Mitch Tyler, Joe. 
 Hello, yes, how are you? Joe points at phone: "It's him." He nods toward Gracie, indicating Slim should take her into the next room. Slim does. 
 MITCH'S VOICE (calm, friendly) I assume Slim's called you. Joe thinks for a split second, then: 
 Of course. 
 MITCH'S VOICE Will you give her a message? (off his silence) If she calls again, I mean. Slim and Gracie are in the next room, but Slim's looking through the door back at Joe. 
 I don't know. I'm on her side here, not yours. 
 MITCH'S VOICE Her side? Come on, Joe, you're a smart person. Let me say two words, okay? "Lug nuts." You don't want to worry they're loose every time you get in your car. And how 'bout the windows to your apartment: are they still locked? A person could go crazy thinking about stuff like that. 
 Goodbye, Mitch. 
 MITCH'S VOICE Tell her to call her friends. Joe hangs up. Slim comes back out. 
 Wow. Charming. 
 He scare you? Joe shakes his head - more at Mitch than in answer to her question. 
 SLIM {CONT.} I shouldn't be here - 
 Sure you should - 
 I'm dangerous to know right now. 
 (calm, forceful) Slim. You can be here anytime. She nods. They both know what he's saying: if he's willing to take this kind of risk, he's either a very good friend (which he is) or he's still in love with her (which he is, also). 
 JOE (CONT.) Oh. He said you should call your friends. 
 At the restaurant? 
. Slim on the phone, listening as the phone rings. And again, again. Joe watching her, concerned. Finally: 
 GINNY'S VOICE Awright already! Orcal 
 Hey. Gin. You okay? 
 GINNY'S VOICE We had to clear the customers out, some ridiculous bomb threat - 
 What? 
 Yeah, right during dinner. Like anybody's gonna bomb a diner in Carpenteria. 
 SLIM'S VOICE What about you and Phil, did you - 
 You know Phil. He won't leave his ship. We're doin' cleanup. 
 SLIM'S VOICE Get out. 
 What? 
 SLIM'S VOICE I got a bad feeling, Gin. 
 You got more than a bad feeling, hon. You got a bad husband. 
 SLIM'S VOICE I know! That's what I'm saying! Get Phil and get out of there! Nowt 
 All right, all right, take it easy - 
 (GRABBING PHIL) Let's go - 
 The police are - 
 (heading out the door) Screw the police, we're outta here. 
 SLIM'S VOICE Run, okay?t Ginny?! Runt 
 Can you run? 
 Like Michael Jackson! As they sprint, sort of, toward the boardwalk: 
 It's Michael Johnson, Phil. 
 I know. But I run like Michael Jackson. And he kind of does: arms flailing, not quite connected to his body. Just as when we're enjoying this comic sight - EXPLOSION behind them - They're thrown TOWARD CAMERA - Debris flying everywhere - They lie on the. ground. Not moving. Are they dead or just stunned? Slowly they raise their heads. Blink. Look back at the restaurant: Starting to go up in flames. 
 The line went dead. Joe stares at her, concerned. She presses redial, and we hear THE PHONE start to ring... She- goes to the window, parts the curtain: OUTSIDE in the street, the FBI MEN sit in their car - No answer on the phone. Slim looks at Joe and shakes her head: this isn't good. 
 Hey Jupe. Girl here says she's your daughter. Jupiter gives Slim and Gracie a skeptical look. 
 I know you don't want to see me or know about me, but I am desperate, I had nowhere else to go...I need your belg! (off his blank look) You want me dead? He shrugs affably and leads her into his office - 
 It's a good gig. To claim I'm your father? What year were you born? 
 You are my Dad, Jupiter. When Mom died, I wrote you, you didn't answer. I didn't have enough money to bury her, that was really fun. 
 Don't look at me, I didn't kill her. 
 No, you had help. 
 That's a stupid thing to say. What do you want, money?. 
 I thought you should meet your granddaughter. 
 (perfunctory, to Gracie) Hi. Gracie looks at him skeptically, nods. 
 And yes, we need money. To survive. 
 Look sweetheart. From '68 to like '72, I had maybe 5 kids. Different women. It was like a joke to me. 
 Â€¢ It's like a joke to me too. 
 You're the third to show up here with a hand out. I give all of you the same thing. (taking it from his wallet) Six bucks. Enough for a sandwich. For you, it's' twelve, you can buy the kid a sandwich too. 
 (stunned...} Well. Now I know. 
 Yeah. 
 Used to be if I did something nasty, my temper got the better of me?, I'd wonder where the hell it came from. Thanks for clearing that up. 
 No problem. She goes, leaving the $12 on the table. He pockets it. 
 Don't cry, Mom. Please don't cry. - that we realize Slim is crying. 
 GRACIE (CONT.) You have mtg. Beat. 
 Wait. Wait. What're you...? Who're you...? 
 
 Hello? Where are we going? The Driver answers her in a Middle-Eastern language. Gracie looks alarmed. 
 It's okay, Sweetheart, they're friends of Phil's. (I think.) 
 .so secret we don't even know who this man is or where he takes you. Slim nods. 
 You're not afraid to help me? 
 In my country people bleed their enemies to death out of their genitals. A fire? This is for roasting lamb. 
 No letters, Slim, but you can call 
 Must be very short. 
 No. Phil, wait a minute, I - 
 I have insurance from fire - 
 I know, but - 
 
 What about the police? The fire. Do they - 
 Mr. Mitch - of course - he has beautiful alibi. Slim nods again. Looks at Ginny...who's been working up to: 
 You know, I keep having a bad idea. The first time he hit you, we saw your bruises. Second time, he beat you unconscious. The next time? Well. If you should fight back, defend yourself, and he dies? Who'd convict you? Who'd prosecute? 
 This is American law??l 
 I called my cousin, he's some shit- for-brains lawyer over in Tarzana, he says it's 2-1 she'd walk: self- defense, justifiable homicide. 
 2? That's good on a race-horse, Gin, but for Gracie?, to lose both parents? Besides, this is me, i couldn't kill anybodyl 
 We're talking about Mitch here. 
 Even so. I'm not that kind of person, okay? Ginny nods reluctantly. She's not sure the subject is closed. 
 
 Yes, I lost my birth certificate - BIRTH CERTIFICATE for Erin Shleeter in Slim's hand - SOCIAL SECURITY CARD, in her hand - DRIVER'S LICENSE, with Slim's photo: her hair's a different color and she wears glasses. The name is Erin Shleeter,. DRESS SHOP: new clothes, new outfits, new look, new Slim - 
 I'm sorry, this is the best we can - 
 SLIM!"ERIN" It's fine, thanks. Mustapha shrugs apologetically, leaves. Gracie whispers: 
 Mom...who are all those people? 
 SLIM/"ERIN" They're kind of...friends of Phil's. 
 (stares at her mother) They're strangers. 
 "ERIN" Look. I have to find the right place and get you admitted, okay? 
 "ERIN" Thank you. 
 Thank you. (looks at it, whispers) What j it? 
 "ERIN." Food. 
 FedEx is like underground railroad. "Erin" is stunned. She looks inside the package, finds another FedEx pack. Opens that. Inside it is a wrapped present and note. She reads: 
 JUPITER'S VOICE "Dear Daughter - (CONT.) 
" 
: Arab Men carrying in a couch as "Erin" watches. "Erin" hanging sheets over the windows: makeshift curtains. "Erin" fixing Gracie's room. Small bed. Two new Teddy Bears. 
 "ERIN" What do you think, you like this place? 
 
 "ERIN" No, we just - (got here) 
 Good. 'Cause I am sick and tired to death of movingi 
 "ERIN" Me too. So here's the deal. Try to remember,. while we're here, to call me Mom or Erin, but not Slim, okay? 
 I never call you Slim. 
 "ERIN" I know, but... 
 I don't think you are that slim. 
 "ERIN" Thanks a lot. 
 Do I get a new name too? 
 "ERIN" I guess. If you want one... Gracie stares at her blankly. 
 I have a crood idea . 
 "ERIN" Excuse me, Betty? Hi, I'm Erin Shleeter, I called you - 
 Oh, hi - 
 "ERIN" This is my daughter. 
 
 Queen Elizabeth. Betty blinks. "Erin" shrugs: that's my daughter! 
: 
 "ERIN" Yes, he is - 
 "ERIN" He turned? (looks in rear view) Oh my God, you're right. He turned. Wells (That's better.) 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" That's what I've been saying. There are other cars, okay? Just 'cause somebody's behind you doesn't mean - (stops ...blinks...) Mom? You just drove past my school. 
 "ERIN" I don't know, I can cook something. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Or we can go to McDonalds. 
 "ERIN" We can't afford to eat out every night. I can cook, Tootster. "Queen E." rolls her eyes as: 
 Hi. (off her blank look) I'm Brad Zall, I just rented a car from you guys. "Erin" stares at him. An insane moment of sustained paranoia. Who is this guy,. really? What does he want? Finally she realizes a normal response is required. Kind of a 
: 
 "ERIN" Is the vehicle all right? 
 Yeah, it's fine. I was just thinking that if you're not doing anything, maybe I could buy you - and the kid of course - 
 "ERIN" Who are you?! Who sent you?! You want a date?! You are totally out of your mind if you think I'm gonna have even this conversation we're having right now! I'm not, okay?! We are not talking! Get it?! 
 Yeah, I get it. And good luck with your psychotherapy. He walks away. She stares after him. Again "Queen E." is looking at her mother in astonishment. 
 
 "ERIN" 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" You know Mom? I like the doughnuts and all, but the driving... 
 "ERIN" Don't get on my case. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Every Sunday, to drive for 55 hours? In exasperation, "Erin" gestures with both hands - taking them off the wheel. Nothing bad happens, but again her recklessness makes us nervous - 
 "ERIN" It's not 55 - 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Just to reach some phone booth?! Hey can I call Daddy this time?! Please??? Please please please... "Erin" shakes her head. "Queen E." gives her a mournful look. 
 "ERIN" Don't beg. You look like a dog. 
 "ERIN" Mrs. Tyler? It's Slim. 
 "ERIN" Oh that's good news - 
 "ERIN" I do, thanks, I appreciate it. Listen: we have to keep it short again or he might trace it, so I better put her on - (hands phone to:) 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Hi Grandma! I have a new name! (as "Erin" frowns...) Yeah! You wanna hear it? "Erin" pushes down the lever, ending the call, mutters: 
 "ERIN" Sorry, your Majesty. Remember: names're secret. "Queen E." nods. Puts on her mournful look... 
 "ERIN" That is the most pitiful expression I've ever seen. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Hi Daddy! We're having a great vacation! 
 (PAUSE) I don't know. At a phone booth somewheres. "Erin" shakes her head, takes the receiver away: 
 "ERIN" No questions, okay?, or it ends now. (hands phone back to "Queen E.":) Just tell him you love him and say goodbye, okay? "Queen E." nods, puts the receiver to her ear. Even "Erin" can hear Mitch yelling... "Queen E."'s face changes. Mitch keeps shouting angrily. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Goodbye Daddy. She did not say "I love you." She hands "Erin" the receiver. "Erin" hangs it up. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" I am really really sad. "Erin" nods, angry at herself: 
 "ERIN" Sorry, kid. My mistake. 
 I know mine was (too) short, but she made other calls, right? Ginny?, or my mother? He crosses to a map with colored pins. Sticks in another one - 
 MITCH (CONT.) Good. Good. Keep it up. (hangs up, goes to intercom:) Isn't he here yet? Great, yeah, send him in. To our shock, the person who enters is the man previously known as "Our Hero." ROBBIE (real name) and Mitch are good buddies: 
 Hey. 
 Hey. 
 Look, will you tell what's his face, Lieutenant Harris: I bought his Miata, I paid for his rec room, can he please keep his patrolmen from hassling my guys? 
 You got me on a Sunday, for that? 
 (JOKE) I could be out shaking down wetbacks. 
 I didn't bring you for that. 
 Her? (off Mitch' s nod) I told you not to be an asshole. 
 Yeah, but coming from you... 
 We had rules, okay? The rescue routine - like in the diner? It always worked, 'cause we said: one time only. You come, then you go. But you end up marrying the bitchl 
 I know where she is, Robbie. More or less. 
 That's a blessing. 
 I need you to find her. Take your 
 - (as Robbie rolls his eyes) I'll make it worth your while, and I'll fix it with the department - 
 
 Who else'm I gonna get? Huh? She stole my fucking childl 
 C ; Okay, okay. Ease it up. 
 (walks to map, pins) She made calls from these places - 
 She's that stupid? You traced her? 
 She's not stupid, okay? It says on the Net it takes 84 seconds to trace a call; she keeps hers well under. 
 (SMILES) Of course-your equipment is faster. 
 You're welcome, you're welcome... 
 (drawing on map) Okay: say she lives within a two hour radius... 
 "ERIN" What do you think, is it okay? It's okay, right? "Queen E." nods dubiously. 
 "ERIN" (CONT.) No, it's not, it's horrible. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" It's not horrible, Mom. 
 "ERIN" But it's not good, is it? Is it good? 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Know what I think? 
 "ERIN" (tries to pull 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" I think you miss Daddy. This comment is so wacko that it's almost touching. Almost. She feels compelled to be honest: 
 "ERIN" Daddy yells at me, Toots. "Queen E." nods. Thinks... 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Well. You miss somebody. 
 Sorry, my plane was delayed - 
 "ERIN" Rent a car, make sure you're not followed, drive to the Taos airport. 
 JOE'S VOICE Another plane?? 
 "ERIN" In Taos, go to Starbucks. Not the main one or the one by Hagen-Dazs. The one near the book store. 
 What is this, a treasure hunt? I'm gonna spend the whole weekend flying around? 
 "ERIN'S" VOICE I'll call Starbucks in three hours. 
 "ERIN" I tell you it's this one. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" No, he's not. He's with... She's looking at some OTHER PASSENGERS who have already entered through another gate and are walking past them. 
 "ERIN" No, Toots. That one's from Reno. (turns back, sees him) There! Joel She waves. "Queen E." waves too. Joe waves back. 
 I can guarantee one thing in my lifetime: I was not followed. He embraces "Erin" and "Queen E."" The CAMERA looks past them to where Robbie might be watching. He's not. 
: 
 "ERIN" And there's the diner where I do not work. 
 Where do you work? "Erin" gives him a look: she's not telling. She resumes the tour, points to an old crumbling "movie palace:"' 
 "ERIN" There's the one-plex. (pointing again at a 
 No way. 
 "ERIN" Not at all. 
 Just friends, right Gracie? 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Queen Elizabeth. 
 Right. Sorry, your highness. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" No problem. "Erin" pulls up in front of their house, gestures: here it is. 
 "ERIN" And this is the guest bedroom... 
 (CONT . ) 
 "ERIN" (CONT.) .normally known as Buckingham palace. 
 (nods, checks it out) Very... colorful. 
 "ERIN" You better warn him, huh? "Queen E." looks confused. "Erin" whispers in her daughter's ear, and she confides in Joe: 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Oh yeah. The dreams in here get really noisy. Joe sets his suitcase down. 
 I look forward to that. 
. The park. Mostly empty. No one taking their picture. A stand of green bushes. HOLD on the bushes for a moment - 
 You seem like you're doing great. 
 "ERIN" Yeah. 
 How long can you stand it? (off her look) I mean: not to talk to your friends or family or have anything to do with your real life? 
 "ERIN" (quiet, strong) Gracie is safe. 
 Yeah, but what, now Mitch started some kind of custody battle?, what 
 Are you Denise? SHOCK. There he is, standing right over them, in bad clothes and a baseball cap, dark glasses. Completely unrecognizable. 
 "ERIN" Pardon me? 
 You're Denise, right? Used to work at the Pack 'N' Ship? 
 "ERIN" I'm not Denise. 
 Oh. Sorry, I... You look-but you're right, your voice... (isn't) You're not from New Zealand, are you? 
 "ERIN" Never been there. 
 Boy. Sorry to bother you folks. He backs away, embarrassed. Joe stares after him warily... 
 What now? We call Pack 'N' Ship, see if Denise ever - (worked there) 
 "ERIN" Because of some homeless guy? Joe: it could be the Pack'N'Ship in Trenton, New Jersey. (over his protest) One thing I learned: I can't jump every time someone says boo. I can't do that to her. 
 Gracie was right. (off her look) 'Bout the dreams in there. 
 "ERIN" Yeah, mine too. 
 (BEAT) Cuddle? 
 "ERIN" You remember the house rules? 
 With Gracie here? Who can forget? They hold hands. 
 "ERIN" Joe. 
 Yeah. 
 "ERIN" You ever think about what would've happened...(if you and I had...) 
 Yeah. 
 "ERIN" What do you think? Beat. 
 I think Gracie is truly a great kid, and any path that doesn't include her doesn't make any sense. "Erin" nods. Beat. 
 "ERIN" Ginny told me about that weekend. 
 Of your wedding? She nods. 
 She tell you how terrible I was? 
 "ERIN" Joe. This routine? It might work on other people, but you forget: I've actually had you - 
 I didn't forget - 
 "ERIN" (like a compliment's coming) - and I'm telling you, from memory... 
 (DRY TEASE) you are not that bad... They both laugh. It subsides into affection... 
 "ERIN" You really go tomorrow...? He nods. 
 "ERIN" (CONT.) Couldn't you quit your job, and stay here and play the horses or something and become independently wealthy? 
 Please kiss me, Slim. I know we're not supposed to, it's against house rules and all, but for me to come all this way and feel the way I do and for us to not even - She kisses him - And he kisses back. And they stop. Incredible self control. Lie next to each other-hold hands again... 
 You're a great person, Slim. You're a great person just like your daughter. She squeezes his hand. THE CAMERA LINGERS FOR A MOMENT ON THIS SWEET IMAGE... clasped hands...THEN PULLS SUDDENLY BACK, so we're seeing their hands from outside, through a crack in the window. Hold. 
 "ERIN" (runs for door) Oh my Godl, the Queen is out of dance class! I'll be back in 20 - 
 Erin. I'm glad you're here. We can't find Queen Elizabeth - 
 "ERIN" You can't find her??! 
 So many kids're staying for these after-school things - She turns, distracted, as ANOTHER TEACHER calls - 
 "ERIN" I should've! ... I should've known!, he did it before! She rams the car in gear, rockets out of the pick-up line - Almost hits a TEACHER and 4 YEAR OLD KID - Slams the breaks, calls: 
 "ERIN" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I... I... Freaked out, frantic, she pulls to the side of the road, yanks up her brake, grabs her cell phone. Auto-dial #2. 
 T.T.'S Double "A" Rent 
 "ERIN" Did Queen Elizabeth call?! 
 T.T.'S No, of course - (not) 
 "ERIN" Anyone else?! 
 T.T.'S Nobody called, Erin; are you - (okay?) "Erin" presses STOP, then Auto-dial #1, waits, looks around. Betty staring at her like she's crazy, walking toward her car - 
 "ERIN'S" VOICE Hi. Leave a message. 
 "ERIN" Gracie, are you there?! Is anyone there?! Please? Pick up! No one picks up. Silence. She beats the wheel in frustration... lowers her head. For one long second, she seems completely beaten... 
 .what I've been trying to tell you... "Erin" nodding now, beginning to grasp the words... 
 BETTY (CONT.) At the end of dance class, the teacher lets them go hide, and for a minute no one could find her - "Erin" looks past Betty, sees "Queen E." in her tutu and leaps out of her car - 
 "ERIN" Thank you, thank you, I... I'm sorry. I'll explain later, I... She rushes forward, wraps "Queen E." in a big, not quite appropriate hug. "Queen E." looks at her as if to say, "This is nice, Mom, but will you please tell me what gives?" 
 Wanna know a secret? Whispering to her, his hands moving to her neck... 
 MITCH (CONT.) Cops need a body. Without your body, they'll think you disappeared again. Her hands at his hands, clawing, trying to pry them loose - 
 MITCH {CONT.} Which is kind of true. One of her hands moves-away from his hands to that Swatch or whatever it is on her wrist - 
 MITCH (CONT. ) 'Cause where you're going, they will never... ever... find you. She turns the gizmo so it points away from her face... Toward his face... At the last instant he realizes what she must be doing - But it's too late. She presses a button - Orange spray hits his face, eyes - He screams and releases her - She leaps up - and Sees "Queen E." standing in her doorway. Staring, mute and horrified. How long was she watching?! "Erin" grabs "Queen E." and runs down the hall. Mitch writhes on the floor - 
. "Erin" and "Queen E." pulling clothes from the suitcase, getting dressed. A FRANTIC BLUR of pajamas and underwear and suitcase and the last thing we expect to see: KNOCK at the window. Robbie. "Erin" whirls, looks. For an instant TIME SLOWS as she stares at him... FLASHBACK TO THE DINER, HIS FACE: she recognizes him - And realizes: he's with Mitch. Which means: Mitch was phony from the moment she met him - Robbie reaches for her door handle - She rams the accelerator, leaving Robbie behind - The car rockets forward, toward the dumpsters - She spins the wheel; the car swerves, kisses off the dumpster - Robbie running for his car, and now we see the Chevy Suburban, hidden behind some nearby bushes - The Taurus pogos over the concrete/grass divider, rockets across the next parking lot... Robbie jumping into his Suburban - "Erin" half in, half out of her clothing, trying to drive, trying to see, sticking out her arm to keep "Queen E." (not in her seatbelt) from flying through the windshield. 
 "ERIN" Seatbelti Seatbelti Put on your - 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" (trying to put it on) Then slow down so I - 
 "ERIN" I can't slow'- 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Who was that guy?! 
 "ERIN" (looks in rear-view) I don't know, some... (sees Robbie chasing them) Oh shit... 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" Mom, are you sure...?! Quite sure, thank you. "Erin" guns the accelerator. Robbie's FACE... driving, confident, full of blood lust, and then his expression changes. Eyes widen. He realizes - shit! too late!! - that the bridge is way too narrow for - "Erin" Is car slides through, scraping one side The Suburban crashes into the bridge, careens into the water - 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" That was dangerous. 
 "ERIN" Okay, Toots. We can talk. "Queen E." stares at her mutely. 
 "ERIN" {CONT.} Want me to tell you what happened? "Queen E." blinks twice, shakes her head. 
 "ERIN" {CONT.} Fair enough. One thing, though: Erin's over. 
 "QUEEN ELIZABETH" (Too bad.} I liked Erin. Slim nods sadly: she liked Erin too. 
 You're not the Queen of England anymore either. Gracie nods fatalistically, stares out the window. Flat voice: 
 I'm hungry. 
 Everything okay here? 
 
 (NODS) Thanks. 
 
 I'm working on that one. The waitress does a double-take and leaves. To Slim: 
 GRACIE {CONT.) Maybe something normal this time. Ann or Mary or... (sees Slim is distracted) Mom? 
 I'm thinking. Beat. 
 (Yeah,) I can hear it. 
 Anybody talks to you, hit the horn. 
 I need the best lawyer in town. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Please. Just a name. 
 Watch how it's done. 117 Slim goes to the Receptionist's desk: 
 Hi. Is Mr. Toiler with someone? 
 No, but he's - 
 I'm not a crazy person. She walks past the Receptionist - 
 Wait a minute! You can't Slim opens the big door, enters: 
 I don't know where you learned manners, young lady, but this is not the way to get my attention. 
 I know, but I'm desperate. (digging into purse) My husband keeps trying to kill me, and I need to talk to somebody who's smart, okay?, smarter than me at least. (pulling out cash) This is all the money I have - well, all but twenty - it's almost 500, and I'll give you all of it if you'll just listen to what... (happened)... just two minutes, okay? Please? She's so charming and intense and discombobulated, he can't help but give in. 
 Pardon my French, dear, but I hope you got pleasure from it, 'cause you have really fucked yourself. You had two chances to file a complaint with the police and put his violence on record. You ignored them. Which tells him to keep comin' till he kills you. Slim reacts to this. 
 He...he already did. 
 If you don't show up, the judge'll rule against you, you become a fugitive from the law. If you do show, Mitch will, as you say, portray you as a drug addict. For all I know you are one: you break in here, uninvited. I'd say your husband has a good chance for sole custody. Now if you don't mind: (pushes the money back at her) I'd like to go back to my work. 
 (stares at him in disbelief) .That's all? (off his silence) You're not gonna help me? 
 No one can help you, lady. She nods. Stares at him. And does not go. After a moment we see him have a thought... hesitate... look up at her... 
 The custody hearing, if he pushes for it, is just a trick. She says nothing. Listens. Watches as: He plucks a $20 bill from her stack of funds. Obviously he's giving her a valuable piece of advice: 
 I gotta make you a solemn promise, Grace. Gracie is, of course, fast asleep. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Ever since you were born ... well-one day I started to think of all the awful things that were gonna happen. People you'd love who'd die, or leave you, betray you, break your heart... .Physical injuries: broken bones or sickness or guys who hurt you some way... And I thought that if I could protect you even once, from any of those, if I could absorb any part of that myself... 
 (BEAT) Well... Here goes. 
 This is the most ridiculous thing I've ever done. 
 SLIM'S VOICE Oh yeah? How 'bout Horace? Ginny glances at one of her kids, evidently Horace's child. 
 Okay, this is the second most - 
 SLIM'S VOICE Rent a car, drive to Denver, then fly to Reno. 
 You're out of your mind. 
 SLIM'S VOICE (as though flattered) You noticed. Dialtone. We watch from a distance as Ginny shakes her head in disbelief, mutters to her kids. As they trudge off, the CAMERA FOLLOWS. 
 What're you... (doing here?) I thought we were... (driving to Reno) 
 I had to make sure you weren't followed. 
 (re Slim's hair) I like it. (not so sure) Maybe. 
 (SEES GRACIE) Hey, Graceland. Gracie slips out from behind Slim, goes and hugs Ginny as Slim holds up a wallet: 
 There's a credit card and cash. It's on me, but make no calls home, or to Phil. Think of it as a vacation till the Orca reopens. Toots? 
 Take care of her, okay? Extra ice- cream and... and if you need to reach me... (hands her a cell phone) Just don't call your friends. 
 Oh great. I'll call strangers. 
 In an emergency, I'm #1 on the auto- dialer. Or I'll call you. Any calls between us must run is seconds or less. Cake? 
 
 - 
 Ass. (re the vacation) Enjoy it, huh? 
 How long? 
 The custody hearing's end of next month. That's my deadline. 
 Deadline for what? Slim looks at her... 
 MAN'S VOICE You ready? She nods. CAMERA CONTINUES BACK, we see more of her face. 
 MAN'S VOICE Sure? Another nod. Perspiration streaming from her pores, running down her face. And a look we haven't seen before. 
 MAN'S VOICE Can you lose? She shakes her head. 
 MAN'S VOICE Can he hurt you? She barely dignifies the question with another shake. We're now far enough back to see we are: 
 MAN'S VOICE Even though he's bigger? 
 (v. quiet) He's a lot bigger. 
 MAN'S VOICE Even though he's stronger? Finally see her INSTRUCTOR (6'4", 235 pounds, African-American, 0.4% body fat). 
 He's a lot stronger. 
 So if he hits you - 
 No way. 
 Say it. 
 It takes.twice as much energy to swing and miss as to swing and hit. 
 After he misses, what do you do? She answers him with an intense look. He nods and moves after her. Slow, strong, powerful: predator. She backs up. Her movements simple, graceful, economical but athletic: they remind us of the easy way she moved around the restaurant in the first scene... Scattered over the mat are old-fashioned plastic SANTAS that kids use as punching bags. He backs her toward one... .then another. As she nears them, she slides deftly to the side: like she has eyes in the back of her head... He maneuvers her toward a desk-her back to it... Rushes at her - For a moment she seems trapped - But as he reaches her, she slips to her left, tosses him over the desk and onto the mat. She moves quickly to an attacking position, standing over him. He pats the mat beside him. She sits. He makes a motion and she closes her eyes. 
 One last thing. The hardest lesson: we can't control the universe. She listens. 
 INSTRUCTOR (CONT.) The unexpected may happen. He slides his hand over the mat, an order. She lies down. 
 INSTRUCTOR (CONT.) Suddenly his maid enters, you're distracted for an instant, and he hits you... 
 That's not possible - 
 4 We must prepare even for the impossible. She stirs slightly, uncomfortable with this idea. 
 INSTRUCTOR (CONT.) We bend the universe to our will, but it will only go so far. 
 You're saying - 
 
 SLIM (CONT.) For the sake of this exercise, he hits me. He's standing over her. She looks completely vulnerable. 
 Yes. And you lie there as if dead. But hear me. Hold onto my voice. She nods almost imperceptibly. 
 INSTRUCTOR (CONT.) He's standing over you, he thinks he's won-and as sure as he's a coward, he'll try to kick you. 
 
 And because you know what he'll do, you're smiling inside,... (CONT.) Her face blank, eyes still closed-but something changes; we sense her confidence and serenity returning. He draws his foot back as if to kick her... 
 (to the others) Ah. Just a sec, I'll be right back. (to her, irritated} I thought I made it clear you weren't supposed to come here. 
 I don't care what you want. This almost makes him smile; he's getting to like her. 
 You're a different person. 
 So? 
 How's that black guy I .set you up with? 
 Good. 
 Did he teach you how to think? It's not the question she expected; it's more interesting and complicated. 
 .I hope so. (before he can speak) The English guy is good too. 
 (ALL BUSINESS) But that's not why I'm here. I need a woman who looks like me. Someone who can handle herself: an off-duty cop or something. (hands him photo) Five four, one ten. Hair like this but cut higher, over the ear - (hands him key) Miko hotel, room 509, 8 o'clock. 
 Tonic ? That's awful short notice; I don't know if I can - 
 What? I thought Jupiter was like all-powerful, king of the Gods? Oh yeah. One more thing. At some point.. .not right now 'cause it'd be phony ...I need you to acknowledge that I'm your kid. She walks away. He stares after her. Hint of a smile comes to his face. 
 You sure this'll work? 
 You bet your life. 
 Thanks, I will. She leaves, taking out her cell phone. FOLLOW HER as she goes: 
 BUTLER'S VOICE Tyler residence. 
 Yes. Tony. Could you please tell Mrs. Tyler that I'll call her around f our this afternoon. 
 BUTLER'S VOICE Of course, Miss Slim. My pleasure. Slim hangs up, goes into a. bagel shop. 
 Today, hon, you graduate. 
 It's closed? 
 Till six, eh? 
 And I'd guess whoever owns it isn't a very nice person. 
 That's a safe one. Slim starts walking toward the shop. As they go: 
 Why here? 
 You've got soft hands, you've worked hard. The tricky part now is nerves. They reach the entryway; Slim takes out her tools. 
 People on the street? 
 Yeah. And you have to go in when his alarm's turned off - 
 
 (NODS) Meaning he's inside. (has tools out) I'm ready. Alex moves slightly to block the view as Slim bends over and slips her tool into the lock... Slim working quietly, concentrating... Alex looking. around... A SHADY CHARACTER noticing them. Hesitating. Coming over.. 
 We got company, doll... Slim still working... The Shady Character has almost reached them... 
 Forget it. You're too slow. She opens the door - Alex glances down, nods - She closes the door again and stands just as: 
 Hey. What're you guys up to? Slim stares at him. 
 We were hoping to see some action, but it looks like they're closed. The Shady Character stares back. He is ve skeptical. He watches Slim and Alex walk off down the block. Alex mutters under his breath: 
 "Action?" Off her grin - 
 She's coming day after tomorrow, then we're flying to L.A. I was thinking after the hearing, maybe I could bring her by. 
 I was out in the country, Mrs. T. I'm in a big city now, meeting with my lawyer, so there're lots of cell phones. No one can trace this. 
 I'm Tova Steinberg. Slim stares. Tova's voice is an octave lower than Slim's. 
 Say something else. 
 I was a cop. I got shot, took the benefits. Slim thinks about Tova's voice. Takes out her cell phone. 
 They have to think I'm still here, so use my cell phone, tomorrow, to call my dad. Autodial 2. Slim presses the autodial number, then SEND, and motions for Tova to put on Slim's gray coat. It fits Tova perfectly. 
 SLIM (CONT.) (lowering his voice) Hey, it's me. 
 JUPITER'S VOICE What happened to your voice?; you okay? 
 I don't know, I'm getting some bronchial thing. 
 JUPITER'S VOICE Otherwise everything's okay? 
 Yeah. 
 JUPITER'S VOICE Get some rest, huh? She presses END, says to Tova, back to normal voice: 
 Tomorrow stay in, order room service. Call him twice. Keep it brief. "Hello, I don't feel well..." 
 And tonight? 
 Go around the corner, eat at Guido's. 
 I'll be followed? 
 Green trenchcoat. Tova nods and Slim takes off her own wig. Short dark hair. 
 SLIM (CONT.) Wish me luck, huh? 
 Good luck. 
 Luck has nothing to do with it. Tova smiles. 
 She looks both ways: The street's dark. Deserted. She hoists her duffle, takes a deep breath. And crosses the street. Goes up the stairs to the stoop. Looks at the alarm panel on the door: green. Crouches, starts to work on the lock. 
. He sits up. Frowning... dazed. Cocks his head. Listens... The SILENCE seems to have texture. He gets up. 
 Coffee? 
 I gotta get home, change for work. He nods, gives her a perfunctory kiss: 
 I'll call you. She stares at him a second. 
 You want my number? 
 Sure. She sees how "eager" he is to talk to her again. Irritated, she scribbles the number quickly, hands.it to him - 
 Thanks for everything. 
 You too. I really appreciate it. He's too self-centered to notice her ironic tone. She lets herself out. The instant she does, we go to a HIGH ANGLE looking down at Mitch. Alternate NORMAL and HIGH ANGLE during: Mitch pours coffee, goes back into his "dressing area" and pulls on some clothes as he talks into his cell phone: 
 Janie? Hey. 
 (BEAT) Yeah, I was working late. 
 (BEAT) No, tonight's no good either. I've got a morning flight to San Francisco. Slim in therafters, listening. 
 MITCH (CONT.) If it was pleasure, you'd be going too. No, I'm going down to get my daughter. Slim's reaction to this... 
 MITCH (CONT.) Sure, the custody hearing's here next week, but it looks like Gracie's being brought to San Francisco and my ex-wife ...well, seems like she completely vanished. ON SLIM. His words echo his threats when he was trying to strangle her in her hallway. 
 MITCH (CONT.) Right off the face of the earth. I doubt they'll ever find her this time. Slim's jaw tightens. When we come back to Mitch, he's dressed and packing his briefcase. 
 MITCH (CONT.) Yeah, I want her to meet you. We'll call when we get in. 
 (FAKE TENDER:) You too. He hangs up, takes a sip of coffee. HIGH ANGLE SHOT looking down on Mitch as he heads out the door. Slim waits in the rafters until the alarm system beeps: it's armed. She climbs down, walks into the kitchen. Notices his Mr. Coffee machine is still on. Hesitates, turns it off. Opens the fridge to find something to eat - The alarm beeps again. Slim drops silently to the floor. SOUND of the KEY IN THE LOCK - Slim scuttles away as we hear: FRONT DOOR OPENING. FOOTSTEPS coming toward her. She slips around the edge of the counter just as: Mitch enters the kitchen. He goes to the Mr. Coffee... Looks at it... Frowns. Didn't he leave it on...? Slim in the foreground, crouched down, Mitch 15 feet away. He looks around. Is something wrong? Is someone here? Slim frozen, trying not to breath. Mitch listening. Wondering: should he search the place? She looks for a place to hide - He looks at his watch. He's late. He walks right toward Slim, curls around the counter - But she's not there any longer. He heads for the front door - 
 I'm in. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Hey. 
 Can you stay off the phone? 
 GINNY'S VOICE For you, honey? (Anything.) 
 I hope so. She hangs up. Retrieves her duffle bag from its hiding place and pulls out tools, equipment, etc. Picks up a screwdriver and starts searching the apartment, checking the phone line, following it to the place where it enters the apartment. MONTAGE INTERCUT WITH FLASHES of Slim' a face: a running tab on her emotions. Intensity, focus, determination, fear,. ..and, as the sequence builds: concern about what she doing... 
 : She disconnects the phone line. Finds the electrical box, opens it, finds the main switch. Removes all the knives from the kitchen... hides them... Walks the apartment-familiarizing herself with every inch of it-occasionally she moves a piece of furniture slightly... we realize: she's assessing fighting spaces. angles... She looks from one piece of furniture to another, back and forth, gauging the distance between them. She eats a snack from his refrigerator... 
 (V.0.) ". .thanks for letting me come talk about Gracie. And I'm glad you're willing to admit your temper, and - let's not mince words - the physical abuse you subjected me to." And glances at SECOND LETTER: 
 (V.0.) "Perhaps with your new attitude, we can really work something out. Per your last letter, I'll see you the evening of..." She puts the letters in the drawer where the pistol was. They're not in envelopes; they're loose, open. She picks up the metal detector, resumes her search. The machine beeps insistently around his desk. She can't find anything. Finally she discovers a false bottom on one of the drawers: a second gun is in there. With the gun are papers: reports from private detectives looking for her, an assessment of his custody rights... She hides the guns in the bottom of the laundry hamper. Finds a photo of herself with Mitch and Gracie. Rips it up. Puts the metal detector back in the duffle. Changes into sweatshirt and sweatpants. Takes the distinctive red bag (from the electronics store) out of the duffle. There's a machine inside. She plugs it in, tucks it behind the couch. Puts her cell phone beside it. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Hey. Slim says nothing. 
 
 GINNY'S VOICE Say what? 
 You know. What you told me. Beat. On Slim's face as: 
 GINNY'S VOICE Oh. You have a divine animal right to protect your own life and the life of your offspring. Silence. 
 Yeah. She hangs up, turns the machine back on and stashes her cell phone. With simple ease, she lowers herself onto the chair. Facing the door. Waiting in the fading light... 
 SLIM'S VOICE It's me. He nods slowly. 
 Yeah. (I thought so.) 
 MITCH {CONT.} This morning too? 
 SLIM'S VOICE You always did forget to turn off the coffee. He rummages in the drawer. We hear the RUSTLE of the letters Slim put there. He fails to find the gun. Gives up trying to be quiet, tosses papers onto the floor - 
 SLIM'S VOICE It's a machine. Knocks out cell phones. He throws the cell phone onto the bed. Walks out of the bedroom area. Looks around the vast space. Spooky. Slanting light and dense shadow. He doesn't see her. 
 SLIM'S VOICE I found that gun too. He stops. Doesn't know where to go. or what to do. 
 SLIM'S VOICE Scared? 
 
 (FUCK YOU) Of what? 
 SLIM'S VOICE Now is when you decide, Mitch. (off his silence) Whether you're a coward. If you are, you can run. I won't stop you. 
 (meaning the match is unfair:) You have my guns. 
 SLIM'S VOICE Threw 'em away. 
 Then someone's here with you. 
 SLIM'S VOICE No. 
 
 SLIM'S VOICE Why not? 
 'Cause it'd be stupid. Silence is her answer. 
 MITCH (CONT.) You're sayin' this is man to man? 
 SLIM'S VOICE Woman, Mitch. 
 That's what I meant: man against woman - you sure that's fair? The lights go back on. Slowly Slim comes out from hiding... 
 Fair to whom? As he realizes her meaning, she moves into the open area between two couches. She has no weapon. She's barefoot, in her sweats, feet spread for balance, arms just slightly raised. Compared to him: she's tiny. He moves toward her. 
 This is what you wanted, right? What you were going to San Francisco for: the chance to get me alone? He lunges for her; she slides to the side and he misses. He begins to stalk her. And as he stalks, she moves backward, slowly and gracefully, in the way she was practicing. 
 I don't understand, Slim. How does this work for you? She ignores his words. Watches his eyes and his chest. Wants to know where he's going to attack. 
 MITCH (CONT.) I mean: this is carefully thought out, right? She does not respond. He throws three punches. None of them hits her. He's unfazed, keeps stalking... 
 MITCH (CONT.) But say you succeed - beat me up or whatever. You're not going to murder me... (CONT.) Her expression remains neutral, focused. He takes this to be agreement. 
 MITCH (CONT.) So all you've done is further piss me off. 
 Self defense is not ,murder. This stops him cold.. He lowers his hands a moment. Stares at her, trying to assimilate this new information... 
 You don't have the guts. She just looks at him. He blinks, worried for an instant. Covers it with a smile: 
 It's not self-defense when you break in here and attack me. 
 So far you're attacking me. He lunges, almost hits her, rushes in - She has to leap sideways with great speed and dexterity: jumps over the couch to avoid being hit. He also jumps over the couch, but his balance isn't as good, and she's waiting for him as he stumbles - With perfect balance and full force, she slugs him in the nose. He goes down. Stays there. For the first time it occurs to him: this might not be easy. He climbs to his feet, feels his nose: blood. 
 You see? I'm just defending myself. He resumes stalking her. Only he's angry now, and it's scary. 
 If you fail, you can count on this: you'll never see Gracie again. She reacts - He sees it, rushes her - Punching as he goes. From the standpoint of pure physics, he makes a terrifying force. Until: She steps back, grabs his arm, whips him vs. the brick wall - He hits it, bounces off. Cut on his forehead, blood streaming down his face. He stares at her... breathing hard... trying to put it together: 
 You really (think) ...you think you'll kill me and get away with it?l 
 I told you. Self-defense. I came here, as arranged in our letters, to talk about Gracie - 
 Letters? There are no - 
 In the drawer where your pistol was. You just left prints all over them. He stares at her, stunned in every way. Touches his forehead, feels the blood... 
 You attacked me, I fought back. And of course if you never touch me... 
 (SWEET SMILE) I'll have to give myself bruises... He goes berserk. Leaps at her, covering ground quickly with his long stride, swinging his massive arms. This is the most terrifying form of combat: a huge person attacking a tiny one. If he should hit her even once, a glancing blow, she will go down, she will break, it will be over. 
 But he misses, and misses again. Sometimes his punches are wild, almost comical. Others come so close we hear-the wind, feel their power, feel his sweat on her... CONTINUE this terrifying choreographed dance with destruction for as long as it will hold. At every instant, we fear for her bones and her life. Sometimes she leans back like Muhammad Ali to barely slip a punch, and we see terror on her face, married to determination. She knows the score. and the odds. Finally, in frustration at so many misses, he grabs an ashtray, hurls.it at her - it flies over her head - He punches again and again, wildly. She remains untouched. He stops. With all the blood, he looks like a wild animal. He makes a great effort to pull himself together... 
 This doesn't bother me, Slim. I don't care how long it takes. We both know: Ionly have to hit you once. Once, and it's over. She laughs at him. This is the last thing he expected and the last thing he can stand. He rushes at her again, fast - She starts left - He blocks her way - She starts right - Again he's blocking her - She lunges to the left, through a narrow space - He punches, grazing her hair; punches again, just missing, and a third time. We feel the awesome power behind these blows. She's in the clear again. Smiles casually. Clearly part of her strategy is to keep him angry: 
 I'm confused, Mitchy. Aren't you a man? 
 SLIM (CONT.) 
 SLIM (CONT.) It's a martial-arts cliche, honey. A weapon throws you off balance - 
 - 
 - 
 - He misses her three times, the last time smashing the lamp into the wall so hard that the impact hurts his hand. He yelps - 
 SLIM (CONT.) You see? He turns toward her, pain on his face, holding his hand - And she truly attacks for the first time. Smashes her fist against his head - He flies back, bounces vs. the wall. As he comes off it, she punches him again - He roars with rage, lunges at her, head first, great speed - She hurtles him in the same direction, increasing speed - Right into the opposite wall. The top of his head hits the wall. He shudders like someone in a cartoon: a spasm running head to 
 - He drops. 
: - Mitch hitting her the first time - - Midwest house, Mitch leaping out from Gracie's doorway - - Mitch beating her as she crawls across the floor of their house. (Something we didn't see before.) She reaches up, flicks the light switch; Mitch jumps on her back - - Mitch: "You'll never see Gracie again." - Earlier: "She's My daughter. Don't even think about taking her." - Strangling Slim, whispering: "...where you're going, they will never... ever... find you." 
 I can't, Gin. 
 GINNY'S VOICE 'Re you okay? 
 Yeah. 
 GINNY'S VOICE You're okay?!, you beat him?! 
 
 - 
 GINNY'S VOICE It worked?! 
 Listen to me! I did it, but I can't do it! I can't kill him! Behind Slim, out of focus: movement, a soft blur... 
 I know - 
 I know all that! I have to, but I can't! I'm not a killer! I'm not him! Mitch. Crazed and bloody face. In his hand: the wooden lamp. She senses something, turns her head slightly to one side - - so the lamp does not land quite flush on her skull. Still sends her crashing to the floor. Now she does not move. He stands over her. Looks insane: bloody, dazed, beaten: but triumphant. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Hello? Slim? You there? The lamp moving in his hand. He's rotating it. A simple menacing image... . and we realize: he' s aoinq to hit her again. 
 Listen to me, bitch. Ginny's silent. 
 MITCH (CONT.) if you value your children, don' t call anybody. It's over, okay? It's all over. He throws the phone on the couch and moves back toward Slim, lamp clenched tight in his fist. 
 INSTRUCTOR'S VOICE Hold onto my voice... 
 GINNY'S VOICE (in a panic) H o?d 
 Hi. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Oh thank God you're alive. 
 Gin, he's ...he hit his...he's not breathing. 
 GINNY'S VOICE oh. 
 Yeah. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Well: I called the cops, they're on their way. Slim nods. 
 GINNY'S VOICE Slim... can you hear me?, this is important. Beat. 
 Okay. As Ginny talks, Slim puts the cell-phone blocker into the duffle and carries the duffle to the rear of the building. 
 GINNY'S VOICE You're not him, okay? You're not him, and you never will be. 
 See you soon. She drops the cell phone out the bedroom window into the water. Then the duffle. They both sink. 
 You okay? She looks at him, considering the question. Shakes her head. 
 Where is he? She makes a slight motion to indicate that Mitch is inside, and the OTHER COP runs into the apartment. Slim lowers her head. First Cop looks at her, sees the blood on her scalp. 
 Looks like you're one of the lucky ones. She looks up, stares at him, and starts to cry. 
: 
 What rules are we playing by now? She answers him with the kind of kiss you can get away with at a bar or airport and almost nowhere else. 
 This time be nice to her. 
 Is it gonna be like that? 
 Yeah. Jupiter smiles, shakes hands with Gracie: 
 I hope I can work into being your grandfather, okay? Gracie shrugs. 
 So whattaya say, Slim-girl, you comin' back to work? 
 (passing by, overhears and 
:) After all I do for her... ? She better not! Ginny gives him a look - 
 She has to go back to school, make big success. Sigmund Freud, yes?! 
 (PATS JUPITER) Don't worry, Mr. Moneybags will pay. 
 But don't let her cook, huh Gracie? You eat here all the time. Gracie nods thanks, whispers back: 
 
