 (O.S.) This is unwatchable. It's not even in focus. And geez, look, the boom mike is in the shot. This is really shoddy work. 1C   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - A/V ROOM   - DAY                1C The door leads into this room, as we continue on to a TV MONITOR displaying a sweaty guy's ugly face. 
 (O.S.) Why do they always show the guy's face? It's like, can't we just assume he's enjoying it? We slowly PULL BACK from the TV. FRED (O.S.) Because they're trying to make us feel like we're better looking than that guy, so we should be able to get chicks as hot as her. 
 (O.S.) How the hell do you know? FRED (O.S.) It's a basic rule of porno. Finally, we REVEAL our three heroes: MATT, FRED, and. They're watching the porno... 2    INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - A/V ROOM - DAY                   2 ... before school with the sound turned way down, but you can still hear the porno. The three guys are sitting with their book bags on their laps to conceal any possible bonerage. 
 (V.O.) It all started on my seventeenth birthday with our usual morning routine: film appreciation. The school bell RINGS and Deacon clicks off the TV. FRED Deacon! What are you doing? I was watching that. 
 Come on, let's go. We're going to be late. 
 DEACON (V.O.) (CONT'D) And when I say film appreciation, I mean film duplication. Fred steals them, Matt copies them, and I sell them. Matt walks over to the TV and presses eject on five VCR's. The original plus four copies pop out. CLOSE ON the original tape: "Ramalot Productions presents Dirty Darla #7," as Matt hands it to Fred and the copies to Deacon. They smile. 3   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - CAFETERIA - DAY                   3 The guys are waiting in line for lunch. 
 (V.O.) Fred's the kind of kid who's basically given up on high school. He figures his glory days are way ahead of him. FRED First, I go to Yale, then Harvard law, then when I'm making a hundred grand a year, I'll have a whole stable of hot chicks sitting around topless on my yacht. He smiles ears to ear, looking for approval. 
 (to Deacon) Will that work? 
 (to Fred) You are a complete moron. Deacon and Matt walk off. Fred calls after them. FRED What? 
 (V.O.) Until that big payday, Fred's sex life consists of spanking it. 
 That test was sooo hard. That's too much for Fred to take. He adjusts his pants, turns ninety degrees, and makes a beeline for: 5   INT. BOYS' BATHROOM - DAY                                         5 Fred looks under the stalls to make sure no one's in there, then enters a stall and locks the door. He puts his book bag down, then places a protector on the toilet seat and sits down. He pulls a large wad of toilet paper off the roll. Then, from out of the book bag, Fred pulls a bottle of Moisty-Mate hand lotion. He smiles. 6   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY                     6 Fred is walking to class when he spots a HOT GIRL, rubbing a stain off of her shirt. Another HOT GIRL grabs her arm. 
 We're going to be late. Are you coming? Fred perks up. 7   INT. BOYS' BATHROOM - DAY                                         7 Fred walks into the stall and grabs the toilet protector. 
 (V.O.) Fred averages two to five time a day, depending on how many girls he sees in the hallway. 8   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY                     8 Matt is videotaping the students (including J.T. and Mark) running down the hallway to class. Fred watches. 
 (V.O.) Now Matt-- Matt's what you'd call a late bloomer. Secretary of the Audio Visual Club, amateur filmmaker, and complete dork. 
 All great directors start this way. I'm documenting the essence of high school. Teenagers running to meet their destiny only to find it's just home room. It's very existential. FRED So's my balls. See you later. 
 (V.O.) In the normal course of things, Matt probably wouldn't even have been our friend, but Fred likes having someone to boss around, and I think Matt's actually pretty cool once you get to know him. Just then, the burly GIRLS' SWIM TEAM COACH comes out of the girls' locker room. She walks by Matt without noticing, and the door to the locker room closes slowly. Matt's attention is drawn to it. The door stops with a CREAK, a sliver of daylight still visible. Matt shakes his head and starts to walk away towards the boys' locker room. Then, he stops. He's torn. He's still too immature to really be interested, but he thinks he should be. He looks around quickly, then slowly approaches the door. He turns his head sideways, and places it up against the crack. 10A   MATT'S POV                                                        10A The proverbial jackpot. Teenage girls changing. Bras. Panties. Towels... 10B   REVERSE ANGLE                                                     10B Matt's eyes widen. And then, they CLOSE TIGHT. He quickly scurries away. 
 DEACON (CONT'D; V.O.) Well, at least he's got the key to the A/V room. 
 Dirty Darla #7 is a modern classic. This is grade-A porn, my friend. Worth a lot more than twenty dollars. 
 Sweet. He hands him the money and Deacon makes the exchange for the tape. The freshman clutches it like gold and scurries away. Deacon heads out down the hallway towards his locker. He sees a gaggle of teenage GIRLS gossiping. 
 (V.O.) People always talk about how tough it is being a teenage girl. I mean, if I have to watch one more TV movie about bulimia or self mutilation or vaginal dryness... Deacon reaches his locker and opens it. He sees some CHEERLEADERS bouncing down the hallway. Deacon takes out some books for class. (CONT'D; V.O.) (CONT'D) I'll tell you what's really hard. Being a seventeen year old boy. Imagine what it's like to have only one thing on your mind all day, every day, but to have absolutely no way of getting it. 12   INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY                                        12 CLOSE ON a textbook showing the anatomy of the vagina. PULL BACK to reveal Deacon, seemingly staring into space, but really staring at... 
 (V.O.) Testosterone is a drug more powerful than heroin. I don't really have any evidence to support that, but the point is, a horny teenage boy will do almost anything for even a glimpse of sex. ... his BIOLOGY TEACHER's erect NIPPLES visible through her conservative bra and blouse. Aside from her flashing headlights, she's the kind of woman you wouldn't notice even if you were alone with her on a two-man luge. But that doesn't matter-- Deacon can't take his eyes off of them. 
 (in the background) ... the increase in the hormone testosterone causes certain physiological changes in the adolescent male... 
 (V.O.) We're suffering. Suffering from a deep, debilitating addiction to something we've never even had. Teenage boys are like time bombs, ready to explode. 
 Two GUYS are whispering. 
 1 Did you hear about Rachael? 
 2 No, what happened? 
 1 John Baldwin nailed her. Deacon bolts upright and spins around, concerned. 
 Are you talking about Rachael Unger? 
 1 Yeah. It was at Richard Rosenblatt's party. In the bathroom. 
 (crushed) You're kidding. 13   INT.'S BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)                        13 RACHAEL UNGER, Deacon's girlfriend at the time, is naked under Deacon's sheets after school one day. Deacon ENTERS from the bathroom and is immediately surprised by her state of undress. 
 Rachael! What are you doing? She sits up and strikes a sexy pose. 
 We've been together for a year now, and I thought it was time to take our relationship to the next level. Deacon is becoming very nervous. 
 Now? 
 You've been talking about this for months. 
 I didn't think you were listening to me. Suddenly, Rachael becomes a little self-conscious. 
 Don't you want to? 
 Of course I do. But, I, um... I don't have anything... She pulls out a condom. 
 I do. But he's still hesitating. 
 RACHAEL (CONT'D) Deacon, what's the problem? Deacon looks at her waiting there for him, his for the taking. An eternity passes. Then, 
 I have a math test tomorrow. 14   INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY (END FLASHBACK)                        14 The Teacher CLEARS HER THROAT and Deacon snaps out of it. He turns away from the guys behind him as they continue to describe the John Baldwin incident. 
 (V.O.) "I have a math test tomorrow." The bottom line is, I just couldn't do it. I don't know why, I just couldn't. And I've cursed myself every day since then. Deacon is suddenly... 15   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY                   15 ... very depressed as he trudges to his locker. Which is nothing compared to how he feels when he looks 
 (sarcastically) Yeah. I took my camera to gym class with me. FRED You are the biggest moron I have ever known. Just then, Deacon comes up to them. 
 Hey, guys. Here's the money. He hands out the proceeds from the operation, and Matt notices that Deacon is a little out of sorts. 
 Something wrong? Deacon lets out a deep breath. 
 Yeah. I heard Rachael Unger did it with John Baldwin. FRED Well, you had your chance. I told you to seal that deal. 
 Shut up, Fabio. I don't see you sealing any deals. FRED I'm biding my time. 
 Whatever. It just wasn't good timing. 
 Will you shut up already? (beat) Look, I've been thinking about this all day. We're juniors now. Upperclassmen. 
 So? They reach the bike rack and start unlocking their bikes. 
 So we have a responsibility to ourselves to start having fun and getting girls. This year is our year. (takes the chain off his bike) There's nothing holding us back any more. Over in the parking lot, JAKE, a studly senior, revs the engine on his truck. Two hot girls, KELLY and WENDY, sit on his bumper, chatting. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) You see? That's exactly what I'm talking about. That could be us. FRED That's not going to be us this year, or next year, or any year, ever. 
 Why not? All we have to do is follow the simple lessons of Tony Montana in "Scar Face." 
 Ooh. Good movie. DEACON AND (with Cuban accents) "First you get the money, then you get the power, then you get the women." FRED So, we're going to become Cuban drug lords? 
 Listen, the porno pirating operation is bringing in plenty of money. When I get my new car tonight for my birthday, we'll have the power to go wherever we want. Then, there's nothing stopping us from getting the girls. Fred and Matt look at Deacon warily. Is this a plan? Then, the hot girls and Jake drive past the guys. 
 Bye, Sphincter! They laugh, then peel out with the radio blasting. FRED Nothing's going to change, Deacon. You're still going to be the kid who shit his pants in fifth grade and no one will ever let you forget it. 
 I had a stomach virus, asshole. Just then, a super hot CHEERLEADER drops her car keys and bends over to pick them up. FRED Oh, that's just not fair. Fred adjusts himself. 
 Fred makes sure Russ isn't looking and ducks into the porno section. Hurriedly, he pulls out "Half-Cyborg 5: Final Showdown" from his book bag. But inside the case is the tape for "Dirty Darla #7." He makes the switch. Fred sighs a breath of relief, smiles, and walks out of the adult section... 
 ...right into... 
 Gotcha! Fred SCREAMS. 
 RUSS (CONT'D) I've been watching you. Russ grabs Fred by the shoulders and throws him up against the shelf, shaking him with every word. 
 RUSS (CONT'D) Those movies aren't for little monkey- boys! FRED Aaaaaahhhhhhhh! The Customers stop to stare at the scene. Fred breaks free, and Russ chases after him. 
 Come back here, you bastard! Russ runs after him and DIVES at Fred's legs, knocking him and entire shelf of tapes over. The tape FLY EVERYWHERE. Fred is still SCREAMING. Russ starts shouting at Fred so that everyone can hear. A crowd gathers around to watch the spectacle. 
 RUSS (CONT'D) What else you got in here? Russ rips open Fred's bag and pulls out items, looking for more tapes. Fred tries to stop him, but the old man has an iron grip and keeps him away. Fred cringes as Russ exposes porno magazines, kleenex tissues, baby wipes, the bottle of Moisty-Mate Firming Lotion, Q-tips, women's sexy underwear, surgical gloves... Wendy and Kelly are completely grossed out. 
 RUSS (CONT'D) (totally confused) What's this for? ...and a Barbie-type DOLL with a pullstring. Russ pulls it. 
 I'm Candy. Let's play dress-up. The crowd is now seriously disturbed. 
 Dude. 
 And I signal exactly two hundred feet before the turn. Rule 108-1. The unimpressed Tester remains expressionless. 
 Great. Now after the right, I want you to parallel park in the open space. Deacon complies. 
 I begin the parallel parking maneuver by pulling within three feet of the forward vehicle. I now shift into reverse while turning the wheel two revolutions clockwise... The Tester rubs his brow. 20   INT. DMV - DAY                                                     20 
! Deacon's picture is taken. He passed. 
 Surprise! Deacon pretends to be surprised. 
 Wow. This is great. The room is sparsely populated with a few of Deacon's RELATIVES, his MOM and DAD, younger brother MAX (14), and ROGER, a wheelchair-bound nerd with a face full of orthodontic headgear and braces. 
 Were you surprised? 
 Yeah. 
 Really? 
 Really. I was. 
 Happy birthday, Deacon. It's Lois Lane #2. Be careful. It's still in the wrapper. He hands Deacon a comic book, still in the plastic bag. 
 Thanks. 23   INT.'S HOUSE - LATER                                       23 Half-eaten cake and ice cream, unwrapped presents. Matt videotapes the event. 
 MR. LEWIS Are you ready for the big present? 
 (laying it on thick) You mean there's more? Deacon can hardly contain his excitement. 
 MR. LEWIS It's in the garage. Come with us. He follows them, looking back knowingly at Fred and Matt. 24   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY (CONTINUOUS)                   24 The door opens, the lights come on, and Deacon's face drops. No new car. Instead, several large wrapped boxes. Deacon halfheartedly rips open the paper. 
 MR. LEWIS It's a new computer system. You've been talking about it for months. But his Mom can see his expression. 
 MRS. LEWIS What? That's not what you wanted? 
 No, it is. It's just-- 
 I'll take it. 
 MRS. LEWIS Max! 
 MR. LEWIS We can exchange it if it's not the right one. 
 No, I just thought-- I thought you guys were buying me that car I wanted. Max snickers. 
 MRS. LEWIS A car? Why do you need a car? 
 MR. LEWIS You can ask permission to use our car whenever you want, champ. They put their arms around Deacon and smile warmly. Deacon looks over at his parents' Aerostar Minivan. Everyone moves back into the house, except Deacon's parents, who linger. MR. LEWIS (CONT'D) I told you he didn't want a new computer. 
 MRS. LEWIS Like you know what anyone in this house really wants. 25   INT. DEACON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                     25 The guys set up the computer. Deacon is really depressed. 
 Now what are we going to do? FRED At least you got this great party. 
 Actually, we were expecting a lot more people. Fred elbows him. 
 MATT (CONT'D) What? 
 You invited more people? 
 And no one showed up? 
 I did. Deacon looks back at Roger. 
 Great. 
 Uh, guys. No one showed up because they're all at Tom Cooperman's house. He's having a keg party. FRED What? Why didn't I hear about this? That shit's not right. 
 I heard it from Rahim. He beamed me the 411 in study hall. A beat. Deacon's anger turns to action. 
 Let's go. 
 Why? FRED Yeah. Tom Cooperman kicked me in the balls in third grade, and I swear there is still a footprint on my nutsack. 
 Come on, guys. Can I just get one thing that I ask for on my goddamn birthday? 
 He's got a point. FRED Fine. Watch your balls. 
 (ad lib) Grommets! 
 Hey, Coop. Can we come in? Coop un-pockets a tiny piece of paper with a thousand names on it. He examines it for a long time. 
 Sorry, son, that dog won't hunt. Y'all ain't on the list. He goes to close the door. Deacon stops it with his foot. Fred flinches. 
 Coop. It's my birthday today, so cut me some slack, all right? Coop looks him over, then opens the door. 
 (ad lib) Well, pickle my turnips, why didn't you say so? Happy birthday, friend. The guys look at each other, excited. They look back at Roger, five feet behind them at the bottom of the steps. 
 Little help? 27    INT. COOP'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                          27 People drinking, dancing, couples making out. Girls everywhere. And over near the keg is... 
 (in a trance) Oh, my God. There's Naomi. FRED She looks good. And there's NAOMI, every teenage boy's fantasy, wearing a hot party dress and drinking a cup of beer. Someone lightly bumps her... CLOSE ON her lips as the beer dribbles down her chin, and the world goes still . She playfully wipes the beer off her moistened lips and chin with the back of her hand. She turns her head and her hair floats in the air. AND FRED are zombies, completely mesmerized by her. FRED She spilled her beer. 
 Yeah. Fred adjusts his pants. Deacon makes a decision. One that he'd normally never make. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) I'm gonna go talk to her. What have I got to lose? FRED Your dignity? 
 She's Rachael's friend. It's not like I don't know her. 
 Ask her if she has any unusual hats. Girls like that. Deacon gives Matt a dirty look. THE KEG AREA 
 Hey, Naomi. 
 Happy Birthday, Deacon. 
 (pleasantly surprised) You remembered. 
 Well, I got this flyer and-- 
 Oh, right. So where's Jake? 
 Like I care. 
 (hopeful) So you two aren't going out any more? 
 Duh. Deacon's mind is racing with possibilities when: 
 (O.S.) Freakin! It's Jake, back for another beer. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Hey, did you hear about Rachael Unger? Before Deacon can answer... 
 JAKE (CONT'D) He shoots, he misses, right, ass- sphincter? Come on, Naomi. We're going in the pool. 
 Screw off. I'm talking to Deacon. 
 Whatever. 
 Whatever. Jake gives Deacon a dirty look, nods a "let's go" to J.T. and Mark, and heads out back. 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) What an asshole. As soon as Jake is out of sight, Deacon turns back to Naomi, but she's already gone, stranding Deacon. What just happened here? REVEAL Matt helping Roger drink a beer in the background. 
 No, that's okay. 
 No, seriously. It's cool. KELLY (come hither) Come on, Deacon. 
 Yeah. Come on. Deacon thinks about it. He takes the metaphorical plunge. 
 All right. He slips off his shoes and takes off his shirt. He walks over to the shallow end. Deacon steps in with his shorts still on. 
 Dude, what are you doing? Take off your clothes. 
 What? 
 We're skinny dipping, Deacon. He hesitates, not sure what to do. 
 Oh. Okay. Sorry, I'll just leave you guys alone then-- KELLY --No, come on in. Join us. Wendy swims into J.T.'s arms. Her shoulders rise above the water and you can just make out the top of her breast. 
 looks at her, thinks it over, and finally... slips off his shorts. He gets into the pool in his underwear, then slips them off, too, and throws them on the side of pool. 
 Wow. This feels amazing. Someone splashes Kelly, she giggles, and the other kids swim around. Kelly swims by Deacon seductively and he smiles. 
 (O.S.) Coop's doing funnels. Come on. It's Jake, by the side of the pool with Deacon's clothes. The other people swim to the front, and get out of the pool... ...wearing clothes! Even Wendy, in a strapless bra. J.T. (rubbing it in) Sorry, dude. 
 Hey, give me back my clothes! 
 Freakin? I can't see you. Maybe I need to turn on the LIGHTS. And he does. The backyard lights go on illuminating the scene. Deacon panics. People start looking at him, laughing. Then, the cheesy colored pool lights come on, flashing slowly. Deacon is humiliated. Jake bends down to whisper to Deacon. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Did you really think Naomi was into you? Deacon doesn't respond. But it's not enough for Jake. He picks up Deacon's underwear with a stick and examines them. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Oh my God! Skid marks. Aaaahhh, Deacon shit his pants again! 
 No, I didn't! Give them back! Jake does a victory lap around the pool with Deacon's underwear on the stick. Everybody is laughing. 
 Sphincter boy shit his pants! 
 Hey, watch the nads! But it's no use. The dog BITES the front of the pool toy and it starts to deflate... ... just as the HEADLIGHTS of a car pull into the driveway. Deacon FREEZES. He desperately tries to cover himself with the rapidly diminishing toy being jerked away by the dog in a motion that makes it look like Deacon's getting a doggie hummer. A MAN gets out of the car. 
 COOP'S DAD What the hell kind of sick shit is this? 30    EXT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY                   30 The next day, the guys are at the bike rack, when a hot SPORTS CAR drives by. Deacon is visibly bummed. 
 You know how long it's going to take to save up for a car selling porno tapes twenty bucks a pop? Fred looks down. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) What? FRED There's a small problem. 
 What? FRED I got fired yesterday. Russ caught me and went berserk. Some sort of sting operation he's been planning for months. I don't know. 
 You're kidding me, right? Tell me you're kidding. FRED No. And now I have to work twice a week at my dad's office. I told you this Scarface plan was stupid. 
 Great. So now we've got no girls, no car, and no money. FRED And no porn. 
 Tony Montana would be very disappointed. Deacon is once again... 31   INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY                                           31 ... very depressed, as he sits, bored out of his mind in his biology class. 
 Now turn your textbooks to chapter six, the Animal Kingdom. As you should know by now, biology is the study of life, in all its infinite varieties. Deacon continues to stare at her perpetually hard nipples. (CONT'D) So to keep things a little fun around here, tomorrow we're taking a field trip to the zoo. Deacon buries his head in his hands. 32   EXT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY                  32 Deacon is talking to the Dorky Freshman near the bike rack. 
 Is this some kind of extortion racket? I'll pay you double if you can get me something today. 
 I'm sorry. There's nothing we can do for a while. We don't have anything new. 
 I'm dying. I just need something. Just then, Naomi walks by on her way to the parking lot. 
 Hey, Naomi. What are you up to? 
 Going home to cram for midterms. With a look, Deacon shoos away the freshman dork. 
 Oh. I could help you. I mean, if you needed any help. 
 That's okay. I'll be all right. Deacon searches for something meaningful to say, desperate not to let the moment pass him by. Naomi cuts him some slack by asking, 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) So where did Rachael go off to? 
 She went to Paris with the French Club. (then, taking a chance) We're seeing other people. She laughs at his attempt at being nonchalant. But she's laughing with him, not at him, and Deacon can tell the difference. He relaxes... 
 (O.S.) Hey, sphincter. ... just as Jake drives up to them. Deacon is starting to really get pissed at Jake ruining the moment with Naomi. 
 Look, can you please stop calling me that? I think we're old enough to just let it go. All right? 
 Oh, sure. Sorry about that... Shit-pants. He looks at Naomi. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Hi, Naomi. 
 Whatever. She turns her back to Jake and his smile fades. He revs the engine and peels out BACKWARDS. Deacon jumps out of the way, but his bike is CRUSHED by the car. 
 Oops. Sorry. He shifts gears and drives over the bike again. He laughs as he drives away. Naomi gives Deacon a pitying look and walks away. The moment is gone. Now Deacon is... 33   INT. AEROSTAR - DAY                                             33 ... pissed. His crushed bike is in the back seat. 
 (emphatic) Look, mom. I need a car. 
 MRS. LEWIS But I thought we agreed-- 
 I need a car of my own. 
 MRS. LEWIS Well, honey. A car is a lot of responsibility. 
 Jesus, Mom. I'm seventeen now. I think I can handle it. 
 MRS. LEWIS Well, it's also a lot of money. I'll tell you what. Maybe you can get an after school job to earn money for a car. I'll talk to your father. Deacon is stewing. 
 Your dad really knows his firewalls. Deacon bursts into the room. FRED Hey, asshole. Don't just come barging in here. We could have been naked. Matt gives Fred a look. 
 (excited) Shut up. I figured out how to get back on the Tony Montana track.... So, I'm at the zoo today... 36   EXT. ZOO - DAY                                                   36 A crowd of people (including Deacon's biology class) are watching something in the monkey cage. 
 People! People! Come quickly. Witness the miracle of nature at its most primal. She's videotaping it, and Deacon looks up AT HER VIDEO VIEWFINDER. It's a monkey orgy. Masturbation and fornication everywhere. 
 (V.O.) And these monkeys are doing it. I mean, they're going wild. And Miss Ariel is videotaping it. 
 (getting hot and bothered) With one final thrust of his engorged penis, the male deposits his seed and moves on. (suddenly bitter) Probably to a younger, more desirable female. One who doesn't have any "issues." Whatever that means. 
 (V.O.) That's when it hit me. Just then, a glob of "something" shoots out towards the crowd (SFX). Everyone ducks, except for Roger, who's can't move quickly enough in his wheelchair. It hits him in the face, dripping down his orthodontia. 
 A little help! 
 (V.O.) Well, Roger actually... 37   INT. FRED'S BEDROOM - DAY                                       37 FRED What? 
 Let's make one. 
 One what? 
 A movie. 
 Great! That's perfect! I've already got an idea for a kind of sci-fi horror thing. It's like "The Shining" meets "The Jetsons." 
 No, you moron. A porno film. Fred lights up. FRED Even better. 
 And check this out. The best part of all, is I've got an angle. 
 We can make pornos that cater to guys like us. FRED You mean virgins. 
 Yes. Adult films made by virgins for virgins. 
 With good cinematography. FRED And cute, nice girls. The kind you'd want to take to dinner with your parents. 
 Right. No shots of sweaty guys' faces. FRED And nothing up the butt. They look at him. 
 FRED (CONT'D) What? I don't like it when they put stuff up their butt. 
 These have to be nicely edited. We should shoot on super 16 and transfer to video. 
 No, Matt. We'll shoot it on your video camera. We're not getting any expensive equipment. FRED How are we going to get the women to star in the film? 
 And the guys. 
 I don't know. We'll surf the net. We'll figure it out. They look at each other for a beat. Finally, Fred and Matt crack up. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) What? FRED That was really funny. Deacon just looks at them, pissed. 
 I'm serious about this. 
 We can't make a porno movie. FRED Do you have any idea how much trouble we'd get in? 
 Do you have any idea how much money we'd make? A beat. 
 Like how much? 
 Enough for a car. Enough for more camera shit. To take girls out. I don't know. For whatever we want. Beat. Beat. Beat. They're thinking about it. FRED What about the moral implications? 
 It's a free market transaction between consenting adults. What's the problem? FRED We're not adults. 
 He's got a point, Deacon. 
 Guys, tell me the truth. Haven't you ever wondered... haven't you ever imagined what it would be like to make one? 
 Not really. Deacon turns to Fred, who looks guilty. 
 Look. This is an opportunity we shouldn't let slip away. If we make this movie, it could be the best year of our lives. We'll go in boys and come out men. And at the end, we'll have the money, the power, and the women. But you losers would rather play it safe. Well, I'm not going to waste another minute. I'm making this porno movie with or without you. And when I show up at school in my new set of wheels, and you two limp dicks are begging me for my sloppy seconds, I'll just have to tell you, "Sorry, guys. That ship has sailed. You blew it." Ringing silence. 
 (sincerely) That was a really good speech, Deacon. 
 Thanks. 
 Did you work that out before? 
 No, Matt. FRED Okay... So say we were to do this. What would we call our company? 
 I've got it. "After School Special." They look at him. It's perfect. 38   INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY                                      38 WE FOLLOW a WOMAN dressed in a Fredericks of Hollywood type outfit, walking down the hallway past office suites; a mortgage company, a dentist, etc... She enters an office. As the door closes behind her, WE SEE the sign on the door, "Ramalot Productions." 
 That was good. Some good action. 
 I've got a question for you Mike, and I want you to promise to be completely honest. 
 Sure. Of course, Vic. Vic looks at him, vulnerable. 
 Do you think I'm too fat? 
 Are you kidding? The camera loves you. 
 Seriously? 
 Absolutely. 
 Thanks, man. Vic gives Mike a jive hand shake and the two do a little hug. Over Mike's shoulder, Vic sees the woman who's come into the office. 
 VIC (CONT'D) Darla, sweetheart. Ready for number eight? Darla drops her top and heads for the bathroom. 
 Sure, Vic, lemme freshen up first. 
 (to Mike) Is he in there? Mike nods, leading Vic through a door, into 
 So, you think you can just walk into my town and move in on my territory? The Man takes a quick look down at his own crotch, fearing the worst. He shakes his head, pleading through his gag. 41   INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY                                         41 The guys are huddled behind the frosted window of Fred's dad's office, standing away from the RECEPTIONIST. FRED We've got to have two forms of i.d. to prove she's over eighteen. 
 How much money do we need? FRED A first time porno actress makes only two fifty to five hundred bucks. 
 That's it? Does that include the sex? 
 Yes, Matt. 
 So how do we get women for this movie? FRED We place an ad in the Cleveland X-Press for "body models." That's like some sort of code word in the industry. 
 Are we supposed to have sex with these women? 
 No, Matt. A NURSE walks in. 
 Fred, your father wants you to take these urine samples down to the lab. 
 FRED (CONT'D) We also need an adult signature to set up the bank account and the web site. 
 Let's use Principal Taggert's name. FRED Oh yeah, good idea. That'll never come back to haunt us. 
 Then whose name should we use? Just then, MR. GREITZER comes into the office. 
 I'm Ronald Greitzer here for my 4:00 appointment. 
 Okay, Mr. Greitzer. I'll let the doctor know you're here for your... (checks the book) rectal exam. Have a seat. He leaves and Fred looks at Deacon, mischievously. 
 No way. FRED Why not? It's perfect. My dad's got Mr. Greitzer's signature on file, his credit card number, and his social security number... A beat. 
 And he'll never find out? FRED It's not like we're going to send him our annual report. It'll just be like an official name of record or something. 
 Okay. Cool. The Nurse returns. 
 And take these fecal and semen samples, too. She hands Fred two more containers, and the guys exit. 41A   EXT. STREET - DAY                                                41A The guys ride their bikes towards the lab to deliver the samples. FRED And we need porno names. 
 What do you mean? FRED It's a basic rule of porno. All people affiliated with the production of an adult film have porno names so their friends don't recognize them. 
 Oh, you mean like "Johnny Hardmember"? FRED Exactly. That's a good one. I'll be Balls McLongcock. 
 Ooh, I like it. 
 Guys. Those kind of names are just for the actors. 
 You're just jealous that you don't have a cool porno name like us. 
 Okay, fine. Then I'm Sam ... (searching) Slam. Sam Slam. The Back Door Man. Matt and Fred look at each other, then Deacon. 
 That name sucks. FRED You don't get it, do you? A porno name needs to be a very subtle thing. Fred gestures and DROPS the samples which SPLATTER all over the ground. 
 Sorry, Balls. I guess I'm still new at this. FRED Matt, pick that up. 42   INT.'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT                              42 The family dinner. 
 MR. LEWIS And I'm telling the guy, he's got to use form ND-45 for a third-party beneficiary, but Johnson's gotta be the big man. "We've been using ND-90 for twenty-two years." But Johnson's an idiot. He doesn't know ND-90 doesn't even exist anymore. Mom yawns. The phone rings and she gets it. 
 MRS. LEWIS Hello? (covers phone) Deacon, it's for you. It's a young lady named Palomina. Deacon CHOKES on his food. He gets up quickly and grabs the phone. Max is eyeballing him, so Deacon walks with the phone into the other room and talks softly. 
 Yeah. 345 Remson. That's right. Great. Wednesday, three to five. Looking forward to working with you, too. He hangs up and returns to the kitchen to see the whole family staring at him, curious. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) I'm tutoring someone ... in math. To earn money for a car. He forces a smile. 43   INT. DEACON'S BEDROOM - DAY                                        43 The guys are busy setting up auditions. 
 No, we don't pay bus fare. JUMP CUT TO: 
 Thanks. You sound sexy, too. JUMP CUT TO: The guys are getting excited. FRED I can't believe this is working. 44   INT. BASEMENT SET - OTHER ROOM - DAY                             44 And there's Matt, wearing a shirt and tie, nervously sitting in the rec room with a room full of CRACK WHORES. They're a motley crew of fat, old, toothless, spandex-wearing streetwalkers (including one TRANSVESTITE). An uncomfortable silence pervades the room. Matt turns to one woman wearing a rainbow-colored halter top. 
 When you have sex with a strange man, do you imagine it's like your boyfriend or something? She just looks at him. 
 (O.S.) (over a walkie talkie) We're ready. Over. Matt picks up his walkie talkie. 
 Roger. Over. He looks at his clipboard and turns to the first woman. 
 MATT (CONT'D) You can go in now. She gets up and walks through the curtain. 
 Take a seat please. FRED Hi, I'm Balls McLongcock and this is Sam Slam. 
 Tequila. You boys seem kind of young. 
 Don't worry. We're old enough. FRED Tequila. Nice name. So, have you done any films before? 
 I been in some home movies. Stuff like that. Some pictures. She tosses a stack of Polaroids at them. The top one has her standing next to a horse. Fred is speechless. 
 Okay, then. I think we have what we need. We'll call you. She's confused. 
 So you don't want me to suck you two off? They look at each other. 
 No, I don't think that will be necessary at this time. FRED Maybe later. 46   INT.'S BASEMENT - LATER                                  46 The whores are gone. 
 Maybe if we put another ad in and say we're only looking for good looking models. 
! Three digital images of the guys are lined up on Deacon's computer monitor (thanks Mom and Dad!). Deacon is digitally altering the photo of Fred to give him a goatee. Matt's photo has already gotten mutton chops and Deacon's looking sweet with a fu-manchu. 
 I say we make them from Hawaii. 
 Hawaii? 
 It's perfect. Do you know what a Hawaii driver's license looks like? 
 No. 
 Exactly. FRED But isn't it going to seem a little suspicious? Like why are we in Cleveland? 
 Vacation. People from Cleveland vacation in Hawaii, where do you think people from Hawaii go? Matt and Fred look at each other. They shrug, then, 
 Aloha. 48   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT                         48 The next night. The three guys walk downstairs dressed in Hawaiian shirts. Deacon's parents are reading and Max is watching TV. 
 Hey, mom. Can I borrow the car? 
 MRS. LEWIS I have to go to the video store later. 
 But, mom. You said I could use the car, but it's never free. 
 MRS. LEWIS All right, Deacon. I'll walk to the store. 
 Where are you guys going? 
 Out. 
 MR. LEWIS Why are you boys dressed like Don Ho? FRED This is the new style, Mr. Lewis. 
 Yeah, for ass-wranglers. 
 MRS. LEWIS Max! 49    INT. AEROSTAR - NIGHT                                               49 Inside the car (still in the garage), the three guys apply their fake facial hair to match their three new fake i.d.'s. FRED Are we really going to do this? 
 Oh, yeah. He starts the ignition, and an EASY LISTENING tune blasts on the radio, ruining the moment. The guys look at each other for a beat, then Deacon quickly changes the station to a ROCKING SONG, and get back into the mood for adventure. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) (once again) Oh, yeah. They pull out and drive off. 49A   EXT. CLEVELAND - NIGHT                                             49A The minivan descends out of the suburbs into the lights of the big city below. 50    EXT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                  50 CLOSE ON the Aerostar's bumper sticker: "My child is on the honor roll at William Wall High School." 
 I.d.'s. They confidently pull out the i.d.'s and hand them over. 
 BOUNCER (CONT'D) Richard Runningbear from Hawaii? What brings you guys to Cleveland? 
 FRED                             MATT Business.                         Vacation. 
 We're on business, he's on vacation. He hands the i.d.'s back. 
 Well, "tiki-alohi-noa-lohi." 
 Sorry? 
 That's Hawaiian for "welcome." FRED Right. Of course. We just moved to Hawaii a few months ago. Haven't picked up the local lingo yet. They force smiles and wait for the answer... 
 Okay. Have a good time, guys. Deacon grabs the i.d.'s and pushes the other two forward. He grabs the handle to the door. 
 BOUNCER (CONT'D) Oh, and guys. (beat) Nice lamination job. FRED Thanks! The Bouncer closes the door on them. Busted. 
 Look. We have to get into this strip bar. 
 The next two years of high school depend on it. 
 How old are you guys? 
 Twenty-seven. FRED Thirty-five. 
 Sixteen. Fred smacks him. 
 Sorry, guys. Then, 
 We've got money. Deacon pulls out a wad of cash. The Bouncer looks around, then thinks about it for a second. 51   INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                51 WE TRACK the guys as they slowly move down the dark corridor towards the light. Each guy is in his own little world, Matt and Fred following Deacon as he takes the first nervous steps. First the neon lights hit them, then the smell of liquor and sweat, the sounds of barroom chatter, and finally the grinding blast of MUSIC, so powerful it seems to stop them in their tracks. Their eyes bug out. SCANTILY-CLAD WAITRESS walking by. As they move further into the club, they see actual STRIPPERS soliciting lap dances and some TOPLESS DANCERS onstage. Fred smiles ear to ear. The guys are locked in a deep primordial trance, broken only by the voice of a COCKTAIL WAITRESS. 
 What'll you boys have? Two drink minimum. FRED Huh? Oh. I'll have a scotch. Straight up. On the rocks. 
 I'll have a seven and seven. 
 Uh, same. She leaves. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) What's a seven and seven? 
 I don't know. But I heard that guy over there order one and I like the way it sounds. Numerical. The Waitress comes back with their drinks. He pays her and then they raise their glasses. 
 To After School Special. MATT AND FRED To After School Special. They drink. And CHOKE. 
 It tastes like poison. A beautiful STRIPPER in an American flag bikini approaches. AMERICAN FLAG STRIPPER Are you boys interested in a dance? They look at each other. FRED Okay? She takes Fred's hand and walks him over to a private dance couch. As the next SONG starts, a curtain lowers around Fred and the Stripper. Fred is a little freaked out. 
 She strips off her top revealing her big American breasts. She rubs up and down Fred's body, shaking her hair in his face. Matt and Deacon watch intently. 
 Cool. BACK TO SCENE 
 FRED (CONT'D) Uhhhhh. AMERICAN FLAG STRIPPER (to the waitress) Seven and seven. 
 You want mine? She laughs. AMERICAN FLAG STRIPPER So what brings you boys to the Pretty Kitty? 
 We're from Hawaii. 
 Actually, we're filmmakers. We're here looking for new talent. AMERICAN FLAG STRIPPER Really? 
 Yeah, we're looking for some beautiful ladies looking to break into film. You interested? AMERICAN FLAG STRIPPER No. They look defeated. 
 Hi, I'm Ashley. You guys are filmmakers? 
 Video actually. They won't let me shoot on film. Deacon pulls out his wad of cash. 
 Look. We're paying top dollar, hetero only, no anal, and we're distributing through our web site. 
 Aren't you kind of young? 
 Aren't you? You know we're going to need two forms of i.d. to prove you're over eighteen. 
 I'm eighteen. Don't worry. FRED Then you're hired. 
 Shouldn't we audition her first? 
 Don't worry. You guys relax and have a few drinks. By the time the night's over, you'll know I'm your girl. STRIP CLUB MONTAGE: 51A   INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                 51A - Ashley slinks through the fog onstage and works the pole like good girl should: gentle but firm. - Various other Strippers (a Swedish stripper named PLANTAIN, the American Flag Stripper, a BLACK STRIPPER, and an EXOTIC STRIPPER) give the three guys lap dances, dance on the carousel, and generally suck up to them. - The guys are pounding drinks like there's no tomorrow. 
: - Boot and rally. The guys wipe their faces and join a gaggle of Strippers heading into an Amusement Park. 51C   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - VARIOUS BOOTHS   - NIGHT                     51C - Carney games. Matt wins a stuffed animal for Plantain. - Cotton candy, Roller Coaster rides, etc. 51D   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - FUDGE FACTORY - NIGHT                        51D - The group is crammed into a booth at the Fudge Factory, eating ice cream sundaes. Matt shoots the straw wrapper at one stripper. She whips some ice cream at him. Food fight! 51E   EXT. DEACON'S HOUSE - DAWN                                         51E - Ashley is dropping the guys off back at Deacon's house in the Aerostar. She writes down her information on a picture of herself. There's a car full of Strippers waiting for her. - Just then, Jake pulls into the driveway next door. He sees the Strippers and the guys. END MONTAGE. 52    INT. VIC'S "STUDIO" - DAY                                           52 A LADY dressed in sexy clothes and eating chicken wings from a huge bucket is waiting around on the set, but Vic is over talking to Mike. 
 Someone's been recruiting new talent. 
 Jimmy Rimmer says they're from Hawaii. 
 Why the hell would someone from Hawaii come to Cleveland? 
 Vacation? There's the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Vic thinks it over. 
 That's true. Vic regains his train of thought. 
 VIC (CONT'D) What is this? "F" with Vic month? If any more amateurs start moving in on my territory, I'm going to get really mad. Vic opens the drawer and pulls out a GUN. He cocks it menacingly. 
 Who you gonna shoot? Vic's bluff has been called. Reluctantly, 
 I don't know. 
 Calm down, Vic. I don't need you all agitated. You still got five films to star in today. 
 You're right, Mikey. Mike takes the gun from Vic and puts it away. 
 Don't worry. I'll find these guys and take care of it. Vic cheers up a bit. 
 You hungry? 
 Yeah, I could eat. 
 Grab some lunch? 
 Yeah, okay. The two head out for lunch, leaving the bondage lady sitting there, confused. 
 What are you guys doing? FRED We came up with a great idea. We're going to presell the videos by posting the scripts on the website. 
 Will that work? 
 I don't know. But it's kind of fun. We just wrote this whole thing about the girls' locker room. FRED One thing, though. If our motto is "by virgins, for virgins," I was thinking we should put a picture of one of us on the web site to sort of sell the image. 
 You're not putting my picture up there. 
 It doesn't really have to be one of us, though, does it? He grabs the yearbook. 
: ROGER'S FACE, as Balls McLongcock, proudly displayed on the web site, hawking the first feature film (coming soon) of After School Special with the motto, "By Virgins, For Virgins." A quick knock on the door and Deacon's Mom comes in. 
 MRS. LEWIS Deacon, look who's here. Your friend, Jake. Jake enters, all smiles. 
 Hi, guys. Fred quickly shuts off the monitor. 
 MRS. LEWIS You kids have fun. And she leaves. 
 What the hell's going on, Sphincter? 
 What are you doing here? 
 I saw the strippers. And some crack whore named Saffron came over my house the other day looking for you guys. FRED We don't know what you're talking about. Jake takes some pages off the printer. 
 What's this? "Oh, my God. There's a boy at the door looking at us naked in the shower." He flips a page. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) "The A/V Club Secretary lathers all of their glistening bodies. 'I'm so dirty,' she moans." What the hell kind of crap is this? Are you guys running a whorehouse or something? 
 No. FRED Are you crazy? 
 They're not whores if we film them, you moron. Deacon can't believe Matt just blew it. Fred smacks him. 
 You retards are making a porno movie? 
 You can't prove anything. 
 Who's the girl? 
 A stripper. Her name's Ashley. He pulls out Ashley's picture from his manila folder. Jake checks it out. His eyes go wide and suddenly he's their new best friend. 
 Who's the guy? A beat. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Well, maybe I could do it. 
 No, that's not a good idea. 
 Why not? FRED It's a lot harder than it looks. 
 You don't think I can do it? Trust me, I've nailed enough girls. 
 Forget it. 
 Look, you little butt munch. I want to do this, and if you don't let me, I'll go and tell your mommy what kind of sick shit you're doing. Jake looks him over. 54   INT. BASEMENT SET AS "YEARBOOK OFFICE" - DAY                    54 
. Click. The lights come on. The big day has come at last. The guys are nervously conferring on one side of the room, far away from Ashley, who's standing alone, dressed in a conservative high school girl's outfit. The basement has been transformed into the guys' idea of a movie set, complete with lights, camera, tripod, and sound equipment. A desk and decoration make the room look roughly like the high school yearbook offices. Deacon gives Matt a little shove, and Matt takes a long walk over to Ashley. 
 So, um, I'll be directing. 
 Okay. 
 Okay. So I want you to play this very understated. It's a very visceral scene, so it's important not to play it too over the top. 
 Uh huh. (beat) Hey, did you guys shave or something? Deacon looks at the other two, all three now beardless. 
 Okay. I think we're ready here. Fred awkwardly picks up the boom and puts his earphones on. 
 Boom in position. FRED What? Deacon pushes him over to position. 
 Ashley, get into position. Matt gets behind the camera. They whisper conspiratorially. One last reality check before they take the leap. FRED Are we actually going to do this? They look over at Ashley. She's waiting. 
 I guess so. They return to position. 
 So, um, we're starting with the masturbation and then Phillip, the yearbook editor, is going to surprise you. 
 Okay. 
 And ... action. 
 (wooden) These yearbook photos of the Debate Club are making me so hot. I can't help myself. THROUGH MATT'S VIDEO DISPLAY, Ashley slowly strips off her clothes. But before we get too good a look, we 
 FRED smiles ear to ear. DEACON gulps. MATT peers out from behind the camera. 
 (O.S.) I hope no one catches me because I forgot to lock the door. Oh, yeah. Oh, God, yeah. FRED's smile turns into nervous ogling. DEACON crosses his legs and adjusts his shorts. MATT wipes a bead of sweat from his brow. Deacon whispers, 
 Close up. 
 What? 
 Close up. 
 Oh yeah. Right. And Matt zooms in. Ashley continues moaning and as Matt gets closer, the camera starts shaking. He can't keep his hands steady. 54A   THROUGH'S VIDEO DISPLAY                                       54A We'd love to get a look, but the camera is shaking so much, it's just a BLUR. 
 (O.S.) Oh! Oh! Oh! 
 Okay, CUT! She turns off her performance like a light switch. 
 What? Did I so something wrong? Matt is quivering. 
 Uh, no. You were great. I think I've got what I need there. I want to set up for Jake. FRED I need a bathroom break. 
 Not now, Fred. Jake. Jake comes out of the bathroom dressed as the yearbook editor. 
 Action. Jake opens a makeshift door to the office. 
 (wooden) Oh, my God. What are you doing? 
 I couldn't help myself. Please don't tell the principal. 
 Give me one good reason why I shouldn't. 
 Cut. Perfect. Okay, then. Let's get to the, uh, sexual material. Jake pulls off his pants and starts to look a little nervous. He stands in the corner, trying to psyche himself up. 
 Jake, you okay? 
 Sure. No problem. 
 And ACTION! But Jake is still standing there, not in the shot. He's starting to sweat. 
 MATT (CONT'D) Action, Jake. 
 Okay. Still nothing. 
 Come on, Jake. We're filming. 
 All right. Hang on a second. He has his back to them, but it's obvious his bread hasn't risen. Fred lets the boom mike sag a bit. FRED My arm's getting tired. 
 So's his. 
 Action... Jake finally whips off his underwear and faces Ashley. 
 That's it? 
 Hey, it's not hard yet. 
 I can see that. Fred snickers and Jake gives him the evil eye. 
 Um, okay. Ashley, maybe you can help him out. She grabs his joint and Jake freezes. He remains motionless, focusing every ounce of mental control on keeping the floodgates closed. Approximately one point three seconds later... 
 Aaaahhhh! 
 Wait! I'm not set up for that shot! FRED Can I put down the boom? 
 Jake? What's happened? Jake, humiliated, runs to put on his shorts. 
 This has never happened before. She got me too excited. 
 Me? How did you ... without even getting hard first? 
 (copping an attitude) What do you want to hear? I've got a tiny pee-pee? I'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor? Sometimes before I get a boner? Okay? 
 Calm down, Jake. We can shoot this scene again. Just relax. We can splice it together. 
 We'd have to do it like twenty times to get enough footage. 
 I'm out of here. And if you dickwads tell anybody about this, first I'll kill you, and then I'll bust you guys. He pops the videotape out of the camera, takes it, and leaves. 
 Now what? The guys regroup, away from Ashley. The moment of truth: How far are they willing to go? 
 Deacon. You do it. 
 No way. 
 Come on. This is your big chance. 
 No. You do it. A beat. 
 Fred. FRED What? 
 Come on. FRED You. 
 I have to run the camera. FRED Oh, like you're the only one who can do that. 
 (false bravado) Fine. I'll do it. I'll do it for the sake of the film. Hold this. He hands the camera to Deacon and starts taking off his shirt. The rest of them look at Matt with his shirt off. 
 Matt. Stop it. 
 No, I'll do it. He desperately wants someone to hold him back. FRED (grabs him) Matt! They huddle again, worried about whether to go on with this. 
 FRED (CONT'D) Look, guys. Maybe we should just pay Ashley and chalk this up to a failed experiment. 
 Fine with me. 
 No. We can get someone else. 
 Deacon, standing a little too close to him. 
 (nonchalant) Good issue. Beat. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) You ever think about getting into film? Way uncomfortable, the guy puts the magazine down and makes a beeline for the door. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) Where are you going, man? The guy is out the door. Deacon... 56   EXT. JIM'S TINY MART - NIGHT                                       56 ... runs after him. 
 Don't you want to get it on with a sexy lady?!? Matt and Fred are sitting on the curb with some slurpies, bummed. 
 And that guy had real screen presence, too. Just then, Coop pulls up in his van and gets out. 
 Hey, dudes. The guys look at each other... JUMP CUT TO: Moments later, after it's all been explained to Coop. 
 COOP (CONT'D) (awestruck) You guys are gonna be legends of the school. 
 For fixing grades for a girl... FRED Yeah, and the cheerleader is in there and she's going to get grounded if she fails one more test... As they talk, Fred types away. 58    EXT. INDIA - DAY                                                 58 STOCK FOOTAGE: Taj Mahal, etc. 59    INT. TEEN BOY'S BEDROOM - BHOPAL, INDIA - NIGHT                  59 A NERDY INDIAN BOY is totally engrossed in the After School Special Website. His eyeglasses reflect the glow of the scrolling text of Fred and Matt's current script. 
 (V.O.) Well, maybe I can pay you some other way... 
 (O.S.) Mujibur, dinner is ready! 
 In a minute! ONSCREEN, the mouse pointer clicks "PRE-ORDER." 59A   EXT. FRANCE - DAY                                               59A STOCK FOOTAGE: Eiffel Tower, etc. 59B   INT. TEEN BOY'S BEDROOM - PARIS, FRANCE - NIGHT                 59B A NERDY FRENCH BOY reads the story on his computer. 
 (V.O.) Oh, God, yes! I never knew math could be so stimulating! Click. Pre-order. 
 Are you okay? 
 Yeah. Thanks. I'm so embarrassed. She pats at the stain. 
 (genuine) Really? I didn't think you got embarrassed about anything. She smiles at Deacon, cheered up by the inadvertent compliment. The Bus HONKS for Deacon. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) Well, I guess I should go. 
 Deacon, wait. Block me for a second while I change my shirt. 
 What? 
 Facing the other way. 
 Oh. He turns around and she changes her shirt behind him. Deacon can't help but sneak a peek. 
 I haven't seen you around here in a while. 
 Yeah, I'm working on this project at home. 
 Cool. You can turn around now. He turns and sees her new shirt is not yet 100% on. 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) Listen. Mark and J.T. are having a party tonight. You want to meet me there? 
 Really? 
 Why not? 
 Okay. Cool. The bus HONKS for Deacon again. 65    EXT. AQUARIUM PARK - DAY                                            65 Matt and Fred charge forward on their 10-speeds through a park. They slide to a stop, falling off their bikes, but they're too excited to care. 65A   INT. AQUARIUM - DAY                                                65A They rush up to Deacon, whose biology class is near the Beluga Whale tank. 
 Deacon, come quick. Deacon steps away from his class for a moment. 
 Matt, what's wrong? 
 (O.S.) Like all mammals, the whale gives birth to live young. Can anyone name another characteristic of mammals? Vinnie? FRED Our site got linked by another bigger site. Someone must have seen our stories and liked them. 
 And? 
 We got a few more pre-orders and a ton of hits. 
 How many? 
 Guess. 
 A thousand? FRED Twelve thousand. 
 Holy shit! Deacon high-fives the other two. They're all stoked. FRED We need to hurry up and make this movie. 
 We should go over the schedule for tomorrow. And make sure the script is ready. Deacon's smile fades. 
 Uh, I can't tonight guys. FRED Why? Where are you going? 
 It's this thing I have to go to. 
 Is it a travelling carnival? 
 No. Look, it's this party Naomi invited me to. 
 Can we come? Fred picks up on Deacon's hesitation. This isn't good. 
 Uh... Okay. I guess that's cool. An awkward beat. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) I want you guys to come. It's just, I don't know. I kind of had this vibe from Naomi. 
 (still doesn't get it) We can just meet you there. 
 Yeah. Okay. That's cool. Look, it's at Mark and J.T. Slistak's house. I'll see you guys there. I've got to get back to class. 
 Later. Deacon walks back to the group. 
 MATT (CONT'D) What are you wearing to the party? FRED We're not really going to the party, you moron. 
 Why not? FRED Because I said so. Matt starts getting agitated. 
 But we told Deacon-- I mean, we can't just not show up. What if Deacon is looking for us-- This is too complicated to explain to Matt, so Fred just gives in. FRED All right. All right. Stop crying already. We'll make an appearance. 
 Cool. 66   INT. MARK'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                        66 Amid this raging party, Deacon has taken his rightful place with the in-crowd, standing dangerously close to Naomi without his usual sidekicks weighing him down. Finally. 
 You know, Rachael's coming back from Paris in a couple of weeks. 
 So? 
 So, aren't you even a little interested in seeing her? 
 No. There's someone else I'd rather see... He looks into her eyes, waiting to see if the limb he's out on is going to break. She smiles. It's working. Just then, 
 Hey, guys. It's his sidekicks and they've got some seriously bad timing. Deacon shoots them an annoyed look. 
 So what's this project you guys are working on? FRED We can't really talk about it. 
 (O.S.) Yeah. It's private. Jake eyes Deacon intently. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Why are you hanging around with this loser? 
 What's your problem, Jake? 
 What's yours? She storms away. Deacon follows her. 67   EXT. MARK'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT                           67 Naomi is out on the patio. 
 What was that all about? 
 He really pisses me off. Jake is such an asshole. 
 Tell me about it. 
 When we were going out, he was so mean to me all the time. I think he's compensating for his little dick that never even gets hard. Deacon chokes on his drink. 
 Well at least you were smart enough to dump him. I mean, you deserve someone who will treat you ... I don't know. Really well. 
 You know what you are? Deacon gets a little nervous. 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) You're a nice guy. She kisses him on the cheek. Deacon looks at her, then steels himself to make a decision. He kisses her! She's surprised, but not unwilling. 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) Deacon? 
 I've been wanting to do that for a long time. 
 So why didn't you? Most guys would look away at this point, with a fabulous babe with pouty lips staring you down. But Deacon passes the test: he stands his ground and kisses her again. She likes it. AT A WINDOW, Jake sees them kissing. He doesn't like it. AT ANOTHER WINDOW, Fred sees it, too. And for a completely different reason, he doesn't like it either. 68   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                            68 The set is finally ready: Ashley is lying on the bed in a robe, the lights and camera are set, and Matt and Fred are adjusting the video camera. The only thing missing is an actor. Deacon ENTERS. 
 Hey, where's Coop? FRED He was supposed to be here a half hour ago. 
 Maybe he got sucked into a black hole. He chuckles to himself. 
 Good one, Spock. I can't understand why you're not more popular with the ladies. 
 Look, we're wasting time. Deacon, why don't you just go in there? Deacon balks at first, then looks over at Ashley, lying there. 
 MATT (CONT'D) Come on... 
 Okay. Okay. All right already. He pulls off his shirt and approaches Ashley with a pizza box from out of nowhere. 
 And action! 
 (O.S.) Maybe I can pay for the pizza some other way... We hear Deacon's ZIPPER opening offscreen as Deacon rolls his eyes and reluctantly delivers his line: 
 And maybe I could throw in the sausage for free. Deacon shows no enthusiasm for what's happening down below. 
 Fred, you get in there, too. FRED Are you sure? 
 Yeah, it'll be a great shot. Fred takes off his shorts and walks over to the other side of the bed. Ashley is offscreen, presumably lying on the bed. The two guys are facing each other. FRED Hey. 
 S'up? FRED How's it going? Deacon shrugs. 
 FRED (CONT'D) Hey, did you see that show on Sci Fi about sun spots? 
 Yeah. They said there's going to be a massive eruption next year. Fred starts laughing. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) What? FRED You said "massive eruption." Deacon starts laughing, too. 
 Hey, quit the chatter. FRED Sorry. 
 Hey, why don't you guys kiss? 
 What? 
 You know. Make out with each other. 
 What? FRED All right. Fred goes in to kiss Deacon, who's thoroughly confused. Deacon holds him back with his hand. 
 Wait. Why do you want us to kiss? 
 (O.S.) Because that's what guys do in gay porn. 
 What? Deacon looks over at the camera. It's Ashley filming. PANIC! He slowly looks down at the person he and Fred are having sex with. He can barely look. It's Matt! 
 More sausage please. 
 Aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhh! CUT TO: 69   INT.'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                   69 Deacon bolts up out of bed. Nightmare. Thank God. 70   INT. BASEMENT SET AS "MOVIE THEATER" - DAY                      70 Deacon enters and the scene looks very much like the dream: Ashley on the bed and Matt and Fred waiting around. 
 Where the hell is Coop? There's no way I'm making out with Fred. Then Coop comes out of the bathroom and sees everyone staring at Deacon. 
 What's going on? 
 Deacon is talking about making out with Fred. FRED No way. I'm holding the mike and that's it. 
 I thought we were doing straight porn. 
 If you guys want to do gay porn, you still have to pay me. 
 Hang on. Relax. It was just this stupid dream I had. 
 You dreamed about making out with Fred? 
 No. Well, yes. And we were both having sex with you. But it was just a dream so let's forget it. Everyone is a little uneasy at this admission. Deacon quickly changes the subject. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) What's with the light? 
 It's a "special effect." If you want this film to look amateurish, you're going to have to get someone else to do it. 
 Okay. Relax. FRED Come on. Let's do it already. 
 Action. Matt starts his cheesy "projector light effect" and Coop takes a seat next to Ashley. 
 This summer tent-pole event-movie is making me so scared. 
 Hide your head down here and I'll tell you when it's safe to come up. As she starts to go down, we turn our attention... ON FRED and DEACON, away from the action. FRED (snide; whispers) How's Naomi? 
 Fine. 
 (O.S.) Not yet. This is the really scary part. 
 (whispers) Hey. Can I ask you a question? Fred shrugs. The memory of the nightmare is wreaking havoc with Deacon's conscience. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) Do you ever think maybe we've gotten ourselves in a little over our heads with all of this? 
 (O.S.) Oh, baby. Not yet. Fred appears to be pondering the question deeply. His face slowly contorts to a look of seeming anguish. Then, FRED Fire! The coiled cord to the massive light is burning a circular hole in the smouldering carpet. 
 Unplug the light! Deacon moves to unplug it. 
 Wait, it's hot! Too late. Deacon touches the cord, SCREAMS, and reels back, knocking the light over. It EXPLODES onto the floor. The carpet bursts into FLAMES. FRED Run! Ashley and Coop run up the stairs. Fred isn't far behind. 
 Quick, get the fire extinguisher! 
 Where is it? 
 Over there! He spots it in the corner and grabs it. Meanwhile the flames are growing. Deacon comes over and aims the extinguisher at the flames. He depresses the lever. Nothing. 
 It's not working! Matt thinks about it for a second. 
 Oh. Me and Fred used it when we wrote the foamy cat fight script last week. 71    INT. FRED'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                         71 Matt and Fred are giggling and prancing around the room in bikinis discharging the fire extinguishers at each other. 72    INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                             72 Deacon looks at him strangely for a beat, then runs into the 72A   INT. BASEMENT - LAUNDRY ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)                    72A He looks around frantically. Nothing. Then, he starts the WASHING MACHINE. It slowly starts to fill up. 
 (O.S.) Hurry! Deacon turns the dial to "large load," pauses and chuckles to himself. 
 Large load. 
 (O.S.) Deacon! Hurry! Deacon snaps out of it and grabs the laundry detergent bottle. He scoops up some water and RUNS into the other room. 72B   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY (CONTINUOUS)                               72B He throws the soapy water onto the fire and Matt. The fire goes out, but Matt's not too happy about getting soaked. 73    INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY (CONTINUOUS)                    73 Coop is looking down the stairs to the basement. Fred is freaking out. Ashley is still topless but covering herself up, having just put on her panties. She goes to put on her shirt when 
 MRS. LEWIS (O.S.) What's going on here? 
 DEACON'S PARENTS are standing in the doorway to the kitchen with Max, whose arm is in a splint. Max stares at Ashley. She covers herself some more. Then, Deacon and Matt enter the kitchen from downstairs. 
 Nice rack. 
 Mom! Dad! What are you doing home? 
 MRS. LEWIS Max sprained his wrist at soccer practice. What is going on here? 
 MR. LEWIS Well, I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation why there's a naked girl in our kitchen. Right, Deacon? Deacon isn't too sure. 
 MRS. LEWIS Well... 
 I, uh... Deacon's mind is racing. Then, 
 I'm Deacon's girlfriend. Ashley. MRS. LEWIS                       MR. LEWIS            * His girlfriend?                  His girlfriend?                * 
 Yes, my girlfriend. 
 MRS. LEWIS And what were you doing with your clothes off in my kitchen? 
 We were having a make out party. 
 MRS. LEWIS Where are the other girls? 
 Their dates stood them up? 
 Yeah. My date wasn't feeling well. FRED Mine has mono. From too much making out. With me. 
 MRS. LEWIS What's that smell? 
 We had a small fire, Mrs. Lewis. I tipped over a candle. It was to set the right mood. 
 MR. LEWIS A fire? Let me see the damage. 
 Dad, don't. Let me take responsibility. We'll pay to have it fixed. Deacon's Dad looks at Ashley again. He can't hide his pride. 
 MR. LEWIS Damn right you will. 
 MRS. LEWIS Well, Ashley. I didn't know Deacon even had a girlfriend. 
 MR. LEWIS Maybe you can join us for dinner tonight. Ashley looks at Deacon. Deacon's Mom glares at Dad. 
 I think Ashley's busy tonight-- 
 Okay. Oh, shit. 
 MRS. LEWIS Okay, then. 74   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT                           74 Ashley is eating dinner with the Lewises. Max keeps staring at her. Mr. Lewis steals a few glances of Ashley himself while continuing his work-related rant. 
 MR. LEWIS So get this. Johnson comes up to me today and he's all like "where's the ND-90's?" I'm like, "Johnson, they discontinued the ND-90 like six weeks ago." I've been telling this guy... 
 Johnson sounds like a moron. 
 MR. LEWIS Exactly! Mr. Lewis is psyched that someone is finally paying attention to him. Mrs. Lewis doesn't like the way he's looking at her. 
 MRS. LEWIS So, Ashley. If I could ask you a personal question, exactly how old are you? 
 Nineteen. But I tell people eighteen. Deacon laughs nervously. 
 Isn't that funny? The doorbell rings. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) I'll get it. 
 Deacon open the door. It's Naomi. 
 What are you doing here? 
 I thought I'd come by and surprise you. Maybe we could hang out in your bedroom. She looks at him seductively. Deacon looks over his shoulder. 
 Now's not a good time. 
 What's wrong? 
 Nothing. Let's talk later. He tries to close the door, but she stops it. 
 MRS. LEWIS (O.S.) Deacon, who is it? Too late. Naomi comes in. 
 Hi, Mrs. Lewis. I'm Naomi. I'm Deacon's girlfriend. And with that she looks at Deacon, figuring she just made his day. It fails, however, to achieve the desired effect. 
 MRS. LEWIS His girlfriend? She looks at Deacon. Max pokes his head through. 
 Deacon has two girlfriends? 
 Shut up, Max! 
 What do you mean? What's going on? 
 Deacon's other girlfriend is having dinner with us. 
 I can explain. Naomi walks into the kitchen with Max. 
 This is Deacon's other girlfriend, Ashley. 
 MR. LEWIS His other girlfriend? Dad's beaming with pride. The two girls size each other up. 
 Hi. 
 Oh, my God. How old are you, you slut? 
 Eighteen. 
 I thought you were a nice guy. Naomi storms out of the house. Deacon follows, then Ashley. 
 MRS. LEWIS You need to have a talk with him. He could be having S-E-X. 
 MR. LEWIS I need to give him a goddamn medal. (she storms off) What? 
 Deacon watches Naomi go. Ashley consoles him. 
 Let her go. 
 Are you insane? I've been fantasizing about Naomi Feldman since the seventh grade. 
 Fantasy and reality are two different things, Deacon. Don't fall in love with who you think she is. You have to be sure you love the real person. 
 So what should I do? 
 Go after her then. Or don't. Whatever. He looks at Ashley for a beat, then goes after Naomi. 75   EXT. STREET - NIGHT                                             75 Naomi and Deacon are arguing under a street light. 
 She's a porno actress in your porno film. She had to pretend to be your girlfriend because she ran upstairs naked when the light caused a fire. And you've never had sex with her or even kissed her. 
 Yeah, pretty much. He looks down. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) So, I guess this means you're not my girlfriend anymore. 
 Not necessarily. She looks at him with newfound interest. 
 NAOMI (CONT'D) I want to come to the set tomorrow. 
 No, I don't think that's a good idea. 
 Why not? I'm curious. I've never seen a porno movie actually being made. 
 Matt and Fred will get really mad. We're not supposed to tell anyone. 
 Tell them I'm a ... creative consultant. For the female point of view. 
 No offense, but the female point of view doesn't really matter in these films. She looks at him, pouting. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) Okay. Okay. 76   CLOSE ON a computer monitor displaying the A.S.S. Website.         76 The cursor is clicking through the various pages: text stories, pictures of the set, still photos of Ashley and Coop, etc. But more importantly, the "hits" counter looks like the odometer on a rocket ship. PULL BACK to reveal... 
 This After School Special shit is amazing. They're getting a ton of hits off their stupid stories and they don't even have any product. 
 Are you sure those are the guys from the Pretty Kitty? 
 It's the same guys. Bingo. I just found out where they live. 
 Give me that address. I'm gonna teach these assholes a little lesson about the adult film business. He takes the piece of paper and storms out the door. 
 Vic! He pops back in. 
 MIKE (CONT'D) You going like that? Vic looks down at his robe. 
 Oh, yeah. Thanks Mike. Vic puts his slippers on. They do the jive hand shake and hug thing again. 77    INT.'S CAR, PARKED - DAY                                        77 Vic checks the address of the house against the print out. 
 Goddamn amateurs. Think they can screw with Vic Ramalot. 
 Let's do this. 78    EXT. STREET - DAY                                                   78 They get out of the car and Mike places the gun in his pants. They walk up to the front door and bang. It opens, revealing 
 MR. GREITZER. 
 You Greitzer? 
 Yes. That's me. Vic's a little confused. He looks at the piece of paper. 
 Ronald J. Greitzer? 
 Yes. That's right. Then, a spark of understanding. 
 Oh, I get it. Brilliant. You're not even a fuckin' kid. Mike pulls the gun out and puts it to Greitzer's head. Greitzer drops his glass of soda, raises his hands, and starts shaking, terrified. 
 What are you doing? 
 What am I doing? I'm retiring you from the porno business. Permanently. Understand? 
 Yes. Yes. Please don't hurt me. 
 No more sweet young pussy, no more hot school-girl fantasies, no more goddamn pornos "for virgins by virgins." You got me? Greitzer's eyes dart over to the side, and for the first time, Vic steps into the house and sees: LITTLE GIRLS. It's Greitzer's little daughter's birthday party. Six-year- old GIRLS and their stunned PARENTS all stare at Vic. Greitzer's wife comes over, screaming and crying. 
 GREITZER'S WIFE Please don't hurt my husband! 
 Uh... 
 I'm sorry! I'll never rent them again! It was only that one time my wife was at her sister's! Please! I promise you! 
 GREITZER'S WIFE You rented a dirty movie? You told me it was Jakob the Liar! Mike lowers the gun and they start backing out of there. 
 What? I shouldn't be entitled to a little joy in life? 
 GREITZER'S WIFE Now look at the trouble you've brought to this house. 
 And I'm supposed to know the Religious Right would come after me for renting an adult film? As they continue to fight, Vic and Mike run back to the car. 79   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY                                79 Dress rehearsals. Naomi is sitting at the kitchen table talking to Ashley, who's wearing a sexy cheerleader outfit. Deacon is at the microwave making popcorn. 
 Five hundred dollars a night? 
 Yeah, but if you can break into films, like these ones, you can get featured dancing gigs and make ten times that much. 
 No way. 
 Seriously. If these guys ever get their act together. Matt stumbles in carrying a pile of scripts. Fred walks in behind him and sees Naomi. FRED What is she doing here? 
 Naomi is my girlfriend. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) And I wanted her to help out. Give the script a female point of view. Fred pulls Deacon aside. FRED Jesus, Deacon. Didn't you see that Beatles documentary on the History Channel? You're pulling a Yoko Ono on us. 
 What? FRED Fine. Whatever. Let's get started. I'm sure she'll be really helpful. Coop comes out of the bathroom dressed as the Math Team Captain, complete with nerd glasses, pocket protector, etc. 
 Oh, hey, Naomi. 
 Hey, Coop. Are you helping these guys, too? 
 (sheepishly) Sort of. 
 Okay, people. Places everybody. Let's try to do this with a little heart, okay? And action. Everyone turns to their scripts and starts the rehearsal. 
 This quadratic equation is so hard. 
 Well, maybe we should just stick to long division. Coop drops his corduroys and Naomi gasps. She stares at Coop's "slide rule" for a beat, then snaps out of it. 
 Wait a second. Cut. This is all wrong. She wouldn't be fantasizing about some geek. 
 He's not a geek. He's the Math Team Captain. 
 No, he should be really well-dressed, and maybe he's a foreign exchange student from Portugal. 
 Um, and the director is the only one who's allowed to say "cut." FRED Who cares, Naomi? 
 Deacon agrees with me, don't you? Matt and Fred look at Deacon. 
 Dudes, come on. My nuts are getting cold. 
 I'm out of here. 
 Shut up, Coop. This is important. 
 (swings his arms out) And my nuts aren't? Coop's hand accidentally smacks Ashley in the nose as she's getting up. She SCREAMS. 
 Are you okay? 
 I'm sorry, Ashley. She's pissed, holding her nose. 
 Look. This is ridiculous. Who does dress rehearsals for a porno shoot? 
 Oh, sure. Why don't we throw out the script while we're at it and "improvise." 
 Guys, I appreciate the money. It's nice to get paid for sitting around doing nothing, but this isn't helping my career. I've got no footage for my reel. She packs up. FRED Where are you going? 
 Sorry. She leaves. 
 Ashley, wait. I'm sorry. Ashley! Then, he blurts out something unexpected: 
 COOP (CONT'D) (calling after her) I love you! Coop exchanges an awkward glance with the guys: he's said too much. He goes after Ashley, with his pants still around his ankles and his bare ass in full display. He stumbles on his pants and falls on his face. He gets up quickly and continues after her, still with his pants down. FRED Now what are we going to do? Your "girlfriend" ruined everything. 
 Coop's the one that smacked her. 
 Besides, if you losers knew anything about women, we wouldn't have this problem. FRED Who asked you? 
 I don't have to take this. She storms off, leaving Deacon there to make a decision. He looks at Matt and Fred for a beat, then follows Naomi. Fred and Matt are crushed. 80   EXT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - DAY                                80 Ashley is walking through the parking lot on the way to work. 
 MRS. LEWIS (O.S.) Ashley? It's Deacon's Mom, in the adjacent lot. She walks over to her. 
 Mrs. Lewis! 
 MRS. LEWIS What are you doing here? 
 I, um, I'm... I'm going where you're going. 
 MRS. LEWIS To yoga class? 
 Yes. Exactly. 
 MRS. LEWIS I haven't seen you in class before. 
 It's my first time. 
 MRS. LEWIS Well, that's great, Ashley. You're really going to love it. She escorts her towards the yoga class building. MRS. LEWIS (CONT'D) It's really easy, but if you can't keep up, just follow my lead. CUT TO: 81   INT. YOGA CLASS - DAY                                              81 The entire class of slackjawed MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN yoga students stare in disbelief. Even the instructor is amazed. 
 is essentially folded in half, her legs pinned well beyond her ears. She's obviously been in this position before. 82   INT. YOGA CLASS - LATER                                            82 The women are gathering their things after class, some still eyeing Ashley jealously. 
 MRS. LEWIS You're quite flexible, Ashley. 
 Yeah, people tell me that all the time. You know, I could teach you some of those moves. Mr. Lewis would love it. 
 MRS. LEWIS Oh. Okay. Maybe later. Listen, Ashley. I want to ask you something... personal. About you and Deacon. 
 Uh huh. 
 MRS. LEWIS You know Deacon is only seventeen. 
 Uh huh. 
 MRS. LEWIS Right. So I was just wondering. You know. If you and Deacon... Well, if Deacon and you were... 
 Um, no. 
 MRS. LEWIS Good. Good. That's very good. She gives Ashley a warm little hug. 
 Listen, Mrs. Lewis. You don't have to worry about Deacon. He's a good kid. If you just let him make his own mistakes in life, he's going to turn out fine. 83   INT. NAOMI'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                83 Deacon and Naomi are under the covers, making out. 
 So, do you have anything? 
 Like what? 
 You know. Protection. 
 Oh. Oh yeah. Of course. 
 Don't you want to? 
 Of course I do. 
 Then what's the problem? Deacon looks at her waiting there for him, his for the taking. A long beat. Then, 
 It's my first time. 
 That's okay. Just go slow. And he does. He's nervous at first, not sure what to do. But as she kisses him softly, suddenly we start to hear the slow fade in of PORNO MUSIC playing in Deacon's head. (Now that Deacon's actually having sex, it's involunarily triggering the only thing he knows about sex: porno movies.) The music grows louder when: FRED (V.O.) (in Deacon's head) Every two minutes, they change positions. He pauses, and cocks his head in confusion. He tries to shake Fred's voice out of his head, but he can't. 
 FRED (V.O.) (CONT'D) It's a basic rule of porno. Finally, he gives in to the porno music. He rolls Naomi on top of him. JUMP CUT TO: They're doing it standing up against the door. 
 FRED (V.O.) (CONT'D) The door. Always a classic. JUMP CUT TO: Deacon sweeps away all the stuff from her desk and lifts her up on it. Naomi likes it. 
 (V.O.) Fantasy and reality are two different things. JUMP CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Fantasy and reality are two different things... But Deacon doesn't share Naomi's contentment. He looks troubled. 83A   INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - BACKSTAGE - NIGHT                     83A The next night, Deacon is talking to Ashley backstage as she's getting ready to go on. 
 I don't know. It was weird. Is it supposed to be so weird? 
 Of course it was weird. True love can only exist between two women. Deacon is stunned. 
 ASHLEY (CONT'D) Just kidding. I don't know, Deacon. Do you like this girl? He hesitates a bit too long. 
 Of course I do. 
 Your heart is telling you that you don't. And I think it's time you start listening to your heart. Deacon still doesn't get it. 
 ASHLEY (CONT'D) Look. I have to go on. Just do whatever you want. Or don't. Whatever. 
 Thanks, Dave. 
 Vic. He turns to leave just as another GUY (cameo for the writer, DHS) comes up to Dave with a pad of paper. VIDEO DUPE GUY Hey, Dave, there's a guy on the phone who wants to set up a new account. 
 What's it for? VIDEO DUPE GUY Some outfit called After School Special. They turn back. 
 What did you just say? VIDEO DUPE GUY Nothing. It's for another customer. Mike grabs him by the collar and pulls him over to Vic. 
 Did you say "After School Special"? Mike grabs the paper, drops the guy, and he and Vic rush out of the store. After they're gone: VIDEO DUPE GUY Shit, man. You must be crazy. (calling after them) Better watch your back, homie! You might get smoked! 85   INT. PEACHTREE & FINCH - DAY                                       85 Naomi is dragging Deacon into the store featuring posters of buff male models with nut-hugging boxer briefs. 
 What are we doing here? 
 What? I thought you might want some new clothes. 
 I don't need any new clothes. 
 And guess what? I booked facials for us at the Serenity Spa. 
 Naomi. Wait. Stop. He stops her. 
 What's wrong? 
 I have to meet up with Matt and Fred this afternoon. I already blew them off yesterday. 
 Deacon, you don't have to hang out with those guys any more. Besides, you really need a facial. And I mean, I thought we could spend the day together. You know, after last night. 
 But what about Matt and Fred? 
 Well what about me? She pouts. She has him under her thumb. He takes her hand and continues into the store. 86   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                         86 Deacon walks in really late, but wearing a hot new Peachtree & Finch outfit. And his skin seems to glow. Matt and Fred glare at him from the far end of the couch. 
 What's going on? Are we going to find another girl? (off their look) What? FRED Matt and I have been talking. 
 Yeah. About what? 
 We want to make this movie. 
 I know. I do, too. FRED No, Deacon. We want to make the movie we wrote. We want to make it without you. 
 Okay. I know what this is about, guys. I'm sorry about Naomi. FRED That's not the problem, Deacon. 
 Then what is it? FRED I thought this was about us having fun and doing something crazy together. But as soon as you got what you wanted, you blew us off. 
 You don't understand. Fred cuts to the chase. FRED Do you even like her? Deacon is about to tell them. Then, 
 Fine. Go ahead without me. FRED Fine. Matt and Fred get up and leave. 
 MRS. LEWIS So, Deacon. How'd you think you did on your midterms? 
 Fine. 
 I found a dead bird on the soccer field. Its head was missing. Deacon's Dad pushes away his plate and gets up. 
 MR. LEWIS I have to go back to the office tonight. Johnson screwed the pooch again. 
 MRS. LEWIS Whatever. 88    INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT                                88 Deacon's Dad gets into the Aerostar. He turns on the radio, which blasts a ROCKING SONG. He quickly changes it back to an EASY LISTENING TUNE. 88A   EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT                                           88A He pulls in to the lot and parks. He steps out of the car and starts to walk to his office. Only it's not his office. It's... 89    EXT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)                     89 He passes the Bouncer, still reading Aristotle's Ethics. 
 Enjoy. 90    INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - BACKSTAGE - NIGHT                      90 Ashley is changing into her school girl outfit. 
 Ash, you ready? You're up now. 90A   INT. THE PRETTY KITTY CLUB - NIGHT                                 90A DEACON'S DAD enters the club and pays the cashier. INTERCUT: 
 MR. LEWIS Hello, naughty school girl whom I've never met before. 
 You, too, are someone whose kitchen I've never been in. Another beat, then she grabs the bill out of his teeth, and quickly moves away. 91    INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT                     91 Dad walks upstairs, still a little stunned. 
 MRS. LEWIS You get everything done at work? 
 MR. LEWIS Yeah. All set. 
 MRS. LEWIS Oh, guess who I ran into? Deacon's girlfriend, Ashley. 
 MR. LEWIS Where did you see Ashley? 
 MRS. LEWIS Over on Industrial Way. 
 MR. LEWIS You were on Industrial? 
 MRS. LEWIS You know, she is so flexible. It's really amazing some of the positions that girl can twist herself into. 
 MR. LEWIS What?!? 
 MRS. LEWIS She even offered to teach me. So I could move like that. 
 MR. LEWIS Yeah, that would be great! I mean, if you're into that. 
 MRS. LEWIS Maybe. I like her. I know she's a little older, but I think she's good for Deacon. 
 MR. LEWIS You do? Just then, Deacon walks past them down the hallway towards his bedroom. Dad eyes him with a rare combination of fatherly concern and male jealously. 92   INT. DEACON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                                   92 Deacon walks past his desk and something catches his eye. He stops to look at a picture of himself with Fred and Matt from fifth grade. He looks really happy in the picture. Then, he sees a strip of photo booth pictures taken yesterday with Naomi. She's hamming it up for the camera, but you can tell from his expression, they don't belong together. He tosses the Naomi picture onto the desk. 93   EXT. DEACON'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT                         93 Deacon stands by the water skipping rocks with Matt and Fred. FRED So, what did you want to talk to us about? 
 I wanted to say I'm sorry. FRED For what? 
 For blowing you guys off. 
 That's okay, Deacon. 
 No, it's not. It's just sometimes I feel like the whole world is passing us by and we're just sitting still. I don't know. Anyway, I'm sorry. FRED You know, you can be a real dick sometimes. Then, Fred smiles. Deacon knows they're cool with each other. 
 Naomi and I did it the other night. 
 No way! FRED You're kidding, right? 
 No, it's true. FRED How was it? 
 Good.   At first. But then I kept   thinking about   all the pornos. Trying to   hit the right   spots, positions. I don't   know. After   a while it kind of seemed   like work. 
 I find that extremely difficult to believe. Deacon laughs. FRED So what now? Do we make this thing? 
 I don't know. Maybe we should just call it quits. 
 (O.S.) Hey, guys. Ashley walks up to them. She looks hotter than ever, in a tiny midriff shirt and short shorts. 
 What are you doing here? 
 I need you. FRED What? 
 I need you to make this movie. For my reel. 
 Well, actually we were-- 
 Ooh, look. An eyelash. For the third time, time stands still as Ashley gently pulls the errant eyelash from Deacon's eye and offers it up to him. 
 ASHLEY (CONT'D) Make a wish. Deacon is too entranced to close his eyes, but he does take the opportunity to blow the eyelash off her hand. She smiles and brushes back a strand of hair from his brow. The guys are hooked. Up through the window, over on Deacon's computer, the A.S.S. Website is running, featuring Roger's smiling face with the motto, "By Virgins, For Virgins." The counter is on fire. 94   INT. HAIRDRESSER - DAY                                            94 Roger is getting his hair cut by a cute HAIRDRESSER, his wheelchair next to him. A few other women are in the back, whispering and looking over at Roger. An OPERA ARIA plays on the radio. 
 So, I'm thinking about getting into films. 
 Okay. 
 You have any tips on how to break in? 
 Uh, no. Not really. Acting classes, I guess. 
 Really? I didn't think there was a lot of acting in those films. Roger is confused. 
 Well, I guess it kind of depends. 
 You think you could get me an audition? 
 For what? 
 Come on. How long have I been cutting your hair? 
 Since I was like eight. 
 (whispers) I know who you are. Don't worry. Your secret's safe. Come on. I just want to make one film to see what it's like. Roger is still totally clueless. 
 That's great. But how can I help you? 
 Oh, I get it. You help me, I have to help you. That's how it works. Okay. She looks around. Then, she sprays a big dollop of hair mousse into one hand and places it under the hair apron. ZIP. Roger panics. 
 HAIRDRESSER (CONT'D) Relax. 
 What're you-- Oh, God! 
 No, no, it's a municipal bond fund. 
 But what about the capital gains? 
 Sure there's short term capital gains, but the dividends are tax free. 
 State and federal? Deacon enters with Matt and Fred. 
 Hey, guys. I hope you don't mind, Plantain and Baxter want to be in the movie, too. 
 Hey! Mr. Runningbear! Matt smiles meekly as we CUT TO: THE PRODUCTION MONTAGE: 95A   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                           95A Moments later, cheesy prom MUSIC plays and a mirrored disco ball reflects light across the dance floor. As the couple dances across the floor, dressed in a prom gown and tux, Ashley looks into Coop's eyes. 
 Ira, I have something important to tell you. 
 What is it? 
 This prom is making me so hot. I'm ready to lose my virginity to you tonight. 
 My dress is ruined! 
 I'm so sorry, Miss Jorgensen. What are we going to do? She rips off her dress in one big swoop, revealing sexy underwear. 95E   INT. BASEMENT BATHROOM - DAY                                       95E Fred is in the bathroom with the Moisty-Mate, but he just can't seem to get in the mood. Through the door: 
 (O.S.) I never knew chaperoning the prom could be so "hard." Fred gives up and throws the lotion back in his book bag. When he exits the bathroom, everyone is staring in his direction, then quickly looks away nonchalantly. 95F   INT. BASEMENT SET - DAY                                            95F The Bouncer is going at it with an ugly sex face, dripping with sweat. 
 That was the best prom ever. 
 You can say that again. And as Ashley actually repeats her line, we see Fred mouthing it along with her, proud of his contribution to the script. 95J   EXT. DEACON'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - DAY                           95J Matt strips off the sheets, sprays them with lighter fluid, and sets them on fire. As the flames rise up and FILL THE SCREEN, 
 (O.S.) Cut. That's a wrap. END MONTAGE. 96    INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - LIBRARY - DAY                    96 Deacon is studying in the library. 
 (O.S.) Deacon! He turns around and there she is: UNGER. 
 Rachael? 
 Hi, how are you? 
 Good. Good. How was France? 
 It was so fun. We just got back yesterday. The school totally screwed up my class schedule. 
 So, how's John Baldwin? Rachael goes white. 
 Who told you about that? 
 Everybody knows. 
 Well everybody is a liar. I never did it with John Baldwin. Deacon is stunned. 
 You didn't? 
 Jesus, Deacon. I don't even know him. It's not like it was with us. It hits Deacon like a ton of bricks. 97   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - A/V ROOM - DAY                  97 Deacon and Fred enter and see Matt sitting by the computer. FRED So...? 
 How does it look? 
 It looks great. It's the best porno film I've ever made. FRED So what's the problem? 
 Are you done with it? 
 Well, I cut together some footage to give to Ashley for her reel, but I don't think I can finish this film. FRED Why not? 
 I can't even watch it. Every time I turn it on, I keep thinking about that tuna fish sandwich and Coop farting all day long. 
 That was pretty gross. 
 That's just it. The movie looks great, but seeing everything else -- all the disgusting, nasty stuff -- that's what's taken all the fun out of it. And I just don't want to do it any more. FRED Great. I knew it. I knew you couldn't handle this. Matt looks away. 
 Take it easy, Fred. FRED No, I knew that when it came down to it, Matt would wuss out. Matt snaps. 
 You know what? Fuck you, Fred. You're the wuss here. At least I don't have to whack off every time I see a girl in the hallway. Fred shoves Matt. FRED Shut up, Matt. Matt stands up and gets in Fred's face. 
 No, you shut up! For once in your life, be a man and admit this movie was a mistake. FRED Why don't you make me? The two square off, staring each other down. Until, 
 No. Matt's right. This movie was a mistake. 
 Come on, Fred. Didn't you think this movie was going to be ... I don't know, sexy? Fred looks at the other two for a beat, not sure what to say. Finally, he smiles. FRED How long have you guys known about the bathroom thing? Deacon laughs. 
 If you didn't like making the movie, why didn't you say something? FRED I don't know. I thought you guys were having fun. I didn't want to be the wuss. A beat. 
 FRED (CONT'D) So what about the car? 
 The Aerostar's not so bad. FRED What about the money and the power and the women? What about Tony Montana? 
 Scar Face is just a stupid movie, Fred. Fred smiles. 
 MATT (CONT'D) So what do we do with this? He holds up the tape. 98   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK (CLOSED) - NIGHT                             98 The tape is burning in the center of a huge bonfire. A massive party is raging. Tons of teenagers are dancing, drinking, and having a good time rocking to a LIVE BAND. At the center of it all are Matt, Fred, and Deacon are finally enjoying themselves. 
 Hey, guys. Great party. 
 Thanks. 
 I've got some big news. I sent the reel to Vivid and they want to fly me and Coop to L.A. to talk about a contract. 
 Wow. That's great, Ashley. 
 Congratulations. Deacon hugs her. 
 (O.S.) Deacon! Vinnie says we need more ice! 
 Hang on, guys. I'll be right back. He leaves Fred and Matt alone with Ashley. FRED Hey, Ashley. Can I ask you a question? 
 Sure. FRED Do you think me and Matt will ever get girlfriends? 
 Are you kidding? Come on, guys. You have it made. You're smart, funny, fun to be with. In a couple of years, girls will be dying to meet men like you. 
 Really? 
 Well, no. Popular, good looking guys always get the girls. (off their look) Hey, what was I supposed to say? Then, Roger wheels by, arm in arm with his Hairdresser. No more braces and headgear, Roger looks sharp with slicked back hair and suave clothes. 
 Hey, guys. Great party. He wheels off. The guys and Ashley do a double take. 99    EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - PARKING LOT - NIGHT                           99 The Bouncer is checking off names from the invite list. A long line of people are trying to get in, including J.T. J.T. I can't believe these losers are having such a killer party. Coop is walking by and overhears the comment. 
 Hey, you're not on the list, dude. J.T. What's with you, you pussy? Are you joining the retard team, too? Just then, Plantain enters and walks to the front of the line. The high school guys stop everything to stare at her. 
 Coop! 
 Plantain. Plantain kisses him, while nonchalantly grabbing his crotch. 
 Come on. You don't need to wait in this line. Deacon and the guys are already inside. Coop puts his arms around her and walks away, not without looking back over his shoulder for a second at J.T. standing there, dumbfounded. Then, the Bouncer escorts J.T. away. 100   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                        100 Ashley is walking by Wendy and Kelly. 
 I can't believe Naomi dumped Jake for Deacon Lewis. Ashley stops. 
 Let me tell you something about Deacon. That boy is amazing in bed. 
 Ashley. Deacon's ex. 
 Seriously? 
 Seriously. Have your boyfriends ever given you an orgasm? 
 No. KELLY I think so. (off Ashley's look) No. 
 Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week? KELLY AND WENDY No. 
 You're wasting your time giving those Neanderthals blowjobs. I mean, they'll probably wind up unemployed wife beaters anyway. KELLY So, are Deacon's friends seeing anybody? 
 Matt and Fred? I don't think so. But if you're interested, you better move fast. Those guys know how to do this thing ... She whispers something to Wendy and Kelly. They look shocked. Ashley walks off... 100A   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                      100A ...and finds Deacon, sitting alone on a broken-down ride. She sits down next to him. 
 How's Naomi? 
 I don't know. Good, I guess. 
 I thought she was your fantasy girl. 
 Yeah. She was. 
 You're gonna dump her. 
 I don't want to. I don't know. It's not like it was when I was with Rachael. Rachael and I used to talk about stuff. We just, I don't know, connected. 
 Very good, Deacon. Deacon is confused. 
 What do you mean? 
 Oh, nothing. I guess I'm just glad that you finally figured it out. A moment of realization. 
 Yeah, I guess I did. (beat) So I have to do this, don't I? 
 (joking this time) I guess. Or not. Whatever. Deacon smiles. He finally understands that Ashley really does care about him. Ashley kisses him on the cheek and exits off into the horizon. 101   EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - NIGHT                                      101 Deacon holds Naomi's hand and they walk and talk. 
 There's something I want to talk to you about. 
 What? 
 I've been thinking. Maybe we should see other people. 
 What? 
 Well, I mean, we don't really have anything in common. And we don't really even get along. 
 You're breaking up with me? (beat) Can we still have sex? 
 Listen to what I'm saying, Naomi. 
 The only reason I went out with you was because I thought you were a nice guy. And now you're breaking up with me? 
 Yeah. I guess so. 
 If you tell anybody about this... I have a reputation. 
 I won't. You can tell people you dumped me if you want. 
 Really? 
 Sure. What do I care? 
 You see? You are a nice guy. She kisses him on the cheek. 
 Just don't tell anyone about the movies. All right? She smiles. 
 (O.S.) These guys are pornographers! It's Jake, on the bandstand with the mike. He's drunk. 
 JAKE (CONT'D) They're perverts! They make porno movies in their basement! 
 No one's listening to you, Jake. Give it a rest. Jake gets down to confront the guys. 
 Oh, really, skidmarks? I know someone who will believe me. Your parents. 
 The web site is in someone else's name. All our records are encrypted. There's no tracing it to us, jerk off. 
 Oh, really? Well, good thing I took the tape of Ashley masturbating in your basement. When they see that, they'll see what kind of movies their perfect little Deacon is making. 
 Did you make a copy of it? 
 No. 
 You sent the original tape to my parents? 
 Yup. 
 You know, Jake, you're a real dick! She punches him in the stomach. He doubles over and she uppercuts him. He flies backwards, crashing through a table. 
 Jesus. 
 You should probably avoid pissing her off. 
 Noted. Guys. We've got a problem. 102   INT.'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT                                 102 A large envelope labelled "OPEN ME" sits with the unopened mail on the foyer table. 
 (O.S.) Not so fast, ladies. It's Vic and Mike, and Mike points his gun at Deacon's head. 
 VIC (CONT'D) Which one of you is Balls McLongcock? Matt and Deacon give up Fred. 
 VIC (CONT'D) Good name. FRED Thanks. 
 Too bad you're not going to be able to use it any more. 
 Who the hell are you? 
 The competition. And who the hell are you, coming into my town, paying girls double what I'm paying them? This stupid After School Special shit is cutting into my business. So now I'm putting you out of business. 
 Please don't kill us, Mr. Porno Man. 
 Relax. We're not going to kill you. The guys let out a collective sigh of relief. Thank God. A beat. Then Mike pulls out the HEDGE CLIPPERS. 
 (matter of fact) We're going to cut your balls off. FRED What?!? The guys freak out, but Mike's gun keeps them in place. 
 (re: Fred) Start with him. FRED Why me? It was all Deacon's idea! 
 FRED! 
 Okay. Do the leader kid. 
 Quit squirming. It hurts a lot more if you struggle. Vic starts undoing Deacon's belt. 
 Wait! Wait! Wait! 
 Come on, kid. Take it like a man. Vic pulls down Deacon's pants. Mike brings the blades together in a menacing practice chop. 
 We've got pre-orders! Mike stops and looks back at Vic. 
 What did you say? 
 We pre-sold copies of our video. 
 (condescending) How many? Fifty? A hundred? 
 No. Sixty-three thousand, two hundred twelve. 
 What? 
 That's a lot of product, Vic. FRED We've got orders from all over the world. 
 We'll give you the website if you let us go. Vic looks at Mike for a second, then shrugs. Mike closes the hedge clippers and they untie the kids and let them down. Deacon pulls up his pants. 
 Okay, so what's your cut? 
 Nothing. FRED Except... 
 What except? There's no except! FRED Except you promise to supply us with quality porn free of charge. (off Deacon's look) (MORE) 
 FRED   (CONT'D) It could come in handy. I mean, until we get girlfriends. 
 And... 
 No, Matt! 
 (emboldened) And you have to maintain the artistic vision of After School Special. 
 And what's that? Matt puts his arm around around Vic's shoulder. 
 The key is to try and remember what it was like before you had sex. What did you used to fantasize about? A math teacher who bends over a little too far. The door to the girls' locker room open just a sliver. Going over to visit your friend and catching his mother coming out of the shower. FRED Dude? 
 Not you. Deacon's mom. FRED Oh yeah. I've been there. 111   INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - PARENTS' BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)            111 Deacon's mom is showering, but the door to the bathroom is open. Fred wanders into the bedroom. FRED Deacon? Are you in here? 112   INT. ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - NIGHT (END FLASHBACK)                    112 
 Guys! 
 Okay. We've got a deal, but you gotta give me all your master tapes. (to Matt) And kid. If you ever need a job, give me a call. 
 It's been a pleasure doing business with you, Mr. ... 
 Ramalot. Vic Ramalot. FRED Good name. 
 Thanks. The guys savor the moment, then simultaneously realize the clock's still ticking... They run! 113    INT. DEACON'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT                            113 
 MR. LEWIS Did you go through the mail today? 
 MRS. LEWIS Not yet. I'll go get it. She gets up to get the mail. 113A   EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - NIGHT                                        113A The car races around a corner. 113B   INT. AEROSTAR - NIGHT                                               113B FRED Hurry! 
 It's a minivan! It can't go that fast! 114    EXT. STREET - NIGHT                                                  114 The car races down the street. 115    INT.'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT                                  115 His mom approaches the Envelope and stack of mail. 116    EXT.'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                          116 They run up to the door and burst in. 117    INT.'S HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT                                  117 Deacon runs in and eyes: AN EMPTY TABLE. 
 MR. LEWIS Looking for something in the mail, Deacon? 
 No, I just-- 
 MR. LEWIS Maybe something you'd rather not have us see. Deacon goes white. 
 Mom, Dad... 
 MRS. LEWIS It's too late, Deacon. 
 Wait-- 
 MRS. LEWIS We just want you to know how deeply disappointed we are in you. 
 I can explain. 
 MR. LEWIS Explain? Explain? 
 If you'll just give me a chance... 
 MR. LEWIS How are you going to explain this? He holds up the REPORT CARD. 
 MRS. LEWIS How did you manage to get a "C" in biology? Deacon is in shock: relieved, confused, and a little angry. MRS. LEWIS (CONT'D) I knew we shouldn't have let him have a girlfriend-- 
 MR. LEWIS Let alone two-- 
 Is that what this is about? My biology class? It's just a stupid midterm grade. 
 MR. LEWIS I don't like your tone, mister. 
 Mom, Dad. I'm seventeen now. I'm driving. I've got a girlfriend. Well, actually, we broke up. But you guys treat me like a kid. Is it too much to ask for to be a normal teenager with a normal life? 
 MRS. LEWIS You broke up with Ashley? 
 No. Naomi. Look. I just want to have fun with my friends, okay? They look him over. Finally, 
 MR. LEWIS Okay, then. Just make sure you don't repeat this performance on your finals. 
 I won't. Relieved, he walks out into the Foyer. Max appears from around the corner with the tape. They walk together. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) How much do you know? 
 Pretty much everything. Mr. Slam. Max hands him a piece of paper. 
 MAX (CONT'D) These are my demands. He looks them over. 
 Done. (beat) Did you know all along? 
 Are you kidding? Who do you think made the first pre-order? 
 My advice is to go slow. If you feel you're losing control, just try to relax. Don't worry. It's easier than it looks. PULL BACK to reveal we're in INT. DMV - DAY Fred is about to take his driving test. 
! Fred gets his picture taken. 119   EXT. DEACON'S HOUSE - DAY                                        119 Deacon drives the minivan home and pulls in next to the brand new convertible sports car. Deacon gets out, excited. 
 MR. LEWIS What do you think? 
 This is for me? 
 MR. LEWIS Are you crazy? It's for me. You want a new car, you get an after school job. Deacon's Mom is wearing a sexy outfit and carries an overnight bag. She's beaming. 
 MRS. LEWIS But we are letting you have the Aerostar. It may not be "cool," but it'll get you where you're going. 
 Thanks, guys. Really. 
 MRS. LEWIS We're going away for the weekend. Your father surprised me! 
 It's not even in focus. This is really shoddy work. Deacon takes it back from him. 
 MATT (CONT'D) So, guys. I decided I'm going to apply to NYU next year. The film school. FRED Too bad we burned the film. You could have submitted it as your sample. 
 Good idea, Balls. The guys start laughing. FRED So, I guess we all got what we deserved. No money, no power, no women. 
 Tony Montana would be pissed. Just then, Rachael spots them and walks over. 
 Speak for yourself, guys. 
 Hey, guys. Deacon. Deacon KISSES her. The other two guys are stunned. 121   INT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY                    121 Deacon walks down the hallway with Matt and Fred, and holding Rachael's hand. The four of them run into Wendy and Kelly. 
 Hey, guys. Hey, Deacon. I heard Naomi broke up with you. 
 Yeah. But I think it worked out better this way. 
 Hey, Fred. I hear you know a thing or two about giving women pleasure. Fred freezes. He steels himself, trying to build up the nerve to say what he wants to say. Then, FRED No, I don't. She's disappointed. The whole gang hangs their heads. Then, 
 FRED (CONT'D) Matt knows a thing or two about pleasuring women. I know everything. Fred smiles ear to ear. Wendy laughs, duly impressed. 
 We should go out some time. Kelly looks at Matt seductively. KELLY Maybe all four of us could go out. 
 That could work, you know, depending on my schedule. 
 Cool. So call me. They walk off just as Jake pushes Deacon from behind. 
 Watch where you're going, sphincter boy. But he's dealing with a totally new and improved Deacon now. 
 I thought I told you not to call me that anymore. 
 What are you going to do about it? 
 Some people never learn. Matt pulls out a funky remote control. He hits a button and all the monitors come on up and down the hallway. Students stop to look up at them. 
 I've got a tiny pee-pee? I'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor? 121B   HALLWAY                                                             121B Jake is horrified. 
 Stop it! Stop the video! 
 You probably shouldn't have mailed that tape back to us. The video starts repeating in continuous loop, but has been edited to sound like a rap song. 
 (O.S.) Tiny pee-pee. Tiny pee-pee. E-jac-u-la- tor. E-jac, e-jac, e-jac-u-laaaaaaa-tor. Students point and laugh at him, while Deacon and the guys continue on down the hallway, dancing to the beat. Deacon kisses Rachael goodbye. 
 You know, guys, I've been thinking about something. FRED What's that? 
 About how making the movie didn't turn out to be so fun. I think I figured out why. They stop at their lockers. 
 DEACON (CONT'D) Sex is like a comic book, still in the original wrapper. Once you open it up and read it, it loses its value. FRED Deep. 
 I think he's got something there. Making that movie felt like we were tampering with forces we couldn't possibly understand. 
 Exactly. The fun part about high school is unravelling the mystery of what's going to happen next. The guys smile and dial the combinations on their lockers. In the background, Jake is still on the ground crying. We TRACK through the hallway, outside... 121C   EXT. WILLIAM WALL HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY                  121C ... where we see a large CAR TRANSPORT, with three hot new sports cars on it. Their license plates read "JOHNNY H," "SAM SLAM," and "BALLS." TRACK OVER to Mike, unloading the cars and Vic, standing there smiling. FADE OUT: END CREDITS FADE IN: 122    INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT                                             122 Deacon's parents are in bed. On the TV plays familiar sounding porno music on the hotel pay-per-view. 
 MR. LEWIS Why do they always have to show the guy's face? 
 MRS. LEWIS To make you think you can get girls as hot as her. It's a basic rule of porno. A long beat. 
 MR. LEWIS 
