 
 
 SOPRANO/ALTO (V.O.) 'Wir eilen mit schwachen doch emsigen Schritten, O Jesu, O Meister...' (etc) 
 The latter on crutches, a cast on her leg. They stand center stage, their texts resting on music stands. Seated off to the side, are two male soloists (VINCENT GALLARDO & KENNETH DOWLER). Behind them a chorus of men and women, waiting, as: 
 Spruance, would you like to show me where it's marked smearing here... (hitting at the score) ... because I swear, I don't see it. 
 Sorry.   I didn't know I was. 
 Also, I'd be mildly content if I could have a little less delirious self-appreciation and some small regard for remaining somewhere in the vicinity of the goddamned note. 
 I wasn't smearing. 
 Sssh, come on now. 
 No, I'm telling you, this is personally motivated. Since I moved out he's been doing this, making remarks and being... incredibly pricklike...                           * 
 Now, if our lovely soprano would like to stop grumbling for a moment, I'd like to take it once again. 
 (under her breath) See what I mean? 
 Pardon me? 
 I said fine, let's do it again. 
 (with a cold stare) From the beginning please. 
 He never says, 'Honey I love you, you're doing a great job.' I don't feel he respects me as a person and I'm just not that happy with the stature of our relationship. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Uhm hmm.   I hear you. 
 Now I want you to look at Harry and tell him how you feel. 
 I feel like he's not plugged into my needs, and I'm not getting enough positive feedback... 
 See, look at him shaking his head. 
 Well, let's see what he wants to say here. Harry, how do you feel when she brings out this material? 
 How do I feel? I feel she just overheats on every little side issue, and when I go to try and communicate with the woman, for some unknown reason she doesn't believe a damn thing I say. 
 Oh that's a lie. 
 See what I mean? 
 No, you know what this whole thing hinges from? He came to rent a building from me which is now his place of business... (CONTINUED) 
 So what, he's not interested in that, that's not what he's asking. (to Therapist) See what she does? She wants to dig up and haul out miscellaneous things that's got nothing to do with this. I mean, I agreed to come here, okay, but I have to tell you, Iwo Jima's got a lot of faulty notions in her head about me that.... 
 Alright, there. Right now. That's another thing I want to interject... 
 Pardon me, I was making a statement here. 
 Yes, let's try and hear each other out if we can. Go on, Harry. 
 Well, I forgot the upshot of what I was saying, but... 
 Okay, this syndrome where I've asked him to address me by my given name and he just goes on ignoring my wishes. 
 Alright. Look at him and really tell him how you feel about that. 
 I don't want you to ever call me Iwo Jima again! 
 That's a legitimate request, isn't it? Harry begrudges a slight nod. 
 If you can't call me Adele, don't call me anything at all. (CONTINUED) 
 So? Can you look at Iwo Jima, Harry, and tell her... She darts a confused frown at the Therapist. 
 Better yet, can you take her by the hand and say, 'I hear what you're saying'? 
 Good.  That's good... because there's a lot of love here, isn't there.  (stealing a quick look                     * at his watch) * 6   EXT. CAMPUS/AUDITORIUM BUILDING - NIGHT                     6 A poster outside the building announces a future engagement of THE LEWIS DUART MASTER CHORALE. (SEE Appendix) Joan comes out the door and moves down the steps to a campus walkway. 
 Next time I want to bring out some of our sexual hot spots. 
 The hell you are, honey. 
 The hell I'm not. 
 ... at fifty bucks a shot, out a my pocket... (unlocking the door) I'm going to listen to some pencil-necked butthead tell me I don't know how to relate to you... 
 Daddy, do you want this marriage to work or not. 
 I hear  you, honey. But let's have just a  little more trust on your end of  this thing, okay? That's all I ask. (opens the door) Get in. 
. 
 You sure nothing of value has been removed from the dwelling? 
 No, nothing. That's what's so disturbing. I mean, why would someone do something like this...? 
 Yeah, you have quite a nice little                   * mess here. (poking his toe at some debris on the floor) It kinda looks like somebody doesn't like you, doesn't it? 
 What do you mean, somebody doesn't like me? The Fingerprinter interrupts: 
 Not much on the window. A few partials and a bunch of smears. 
 Check out the bedroom. As he moves to the hallway leading to the bedroom: 
 You think this is someone I know? 
 Let's explore that. Have you had any recent trouble with anyone? 
 No. 
 Anyone whose displeasure you might've incurred in some way? Now thoroughly paranoid, she frowns down at the carpet, scanning her memory for the commission of some past offense. 
 MELVENOS (CONT'D) For instance, just the other day we had a homicide concerning a dispute over a parking space. 
 Who could it be? 
 You're not married, I take it. Her mind is still off searching for enemies and she fails to respond: 
 She's in the process of a divorce. 
 What about him? 
 What about him? He's our conductor, he's an artist and not someone who'd ever... 
 You mean Lewie? He'd never do anything like this. 
 (shrugs) You never know. 
 (O.S.) Hello?   Anybody home? 
 Hi, Joanie... 
 (under her breath) Oh great. 
 I just got in from Hawaii and thought I'd drop by for a minute. (glancing about) What the heck happened in here? 
 Excuse me, it's my sister... 
 (not interested) Uhm hmm. 
 Andy, this is not the most opportune time. I happen to have had a burglary in here last night... 
 Oh really?   That's awful. 
 So could I just call you later? 
 Well, can't you give   me one minute? I'd like to    know if you got the manuscript I   sent you. (squinting at   Helen) Who's that? 
 Helen Dextra, you've met her before. 
 Oh, I have? (then quickly to Joan) Anyway, did you read it? 
 Read what? I don't know what you're talking about. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm talking about the book I've written about Red and me, that I sent you a copy of, is that so hard to follow? 
 Oh no. You've written a book about Red Layls. 
 Not just about him, Joanie, he's only one of many episodes in my life, you know that. Have you got a Perrier? 
 No, I don't. Let me just call you at home later. 
 I'm not going to be home. I'm checking into a hospital to have a bone spur removed from my foot. Then I'm going to New York, to meet with a top publisher... (lowering her voice) ... which, incidentally, I would not care for Mr. Redmon, fecal- face Layls to know. Melvenos and the Fingerprinter re-enter:                            * 
 ANDY                              MELVENOS                * You know what he said to me?        We're going to be leaving. 
 Wait, I need to talk to you... 
 I wanted to ask you, if there's somebody, who for some unknown reason, doesn't like me, what do you suggest I do? 
 I might put some bars on the windows. (giving her his card) My name's Melveny, if you want to get in touch. 
 Really though, I don't see how this could be somebody I know. 
 Maybe not. 
 Because I actually go miles out of my way to avoid conflictual situations. 
 And to top it off, my lawyer said, 'Don't worry, they're just pissing into the wind...' 
 HELEN                         ANDY Uhm-hmm.                      And I said, they're pissing into the wind but it's blowing back in my face... Joan has reentered the room and approaches them. 
 Some help I'm going to get from him, because he's scared to death of Red. 
 Andy, are you telling me the truth? 
 (turning to Joan) Yes, he's afraid, they're all afraid, they're all off skiing. 
 Speaking of lawyers... (tapping on her cast)                                         * One fell on me while I was                            * sunbathing.                                           * 
 I mean, are you really going to New York? 
 Yes, I'm going to New York, where I intend to remain in semi-private seclusion, at an undisclosed... 
 Well maybe I could stay at your house while you're gone. So could you tell your housekeeper to... 
 Wait, I just want you to hear what this colosal shit said about me, through his great white shark of a lawyer. 
 Pardon me, but I don't care what he said. My apartment, as you can                     * see, is a complete shambles, I have                   * a terrible headache, I've been                        * informed that somebody doesn't like me, and I really don't want to stay here by myself! 
 Fine, why don't you take my house then? 
 Thank you. 
 Gee whiz, why make such a big deal out of everything? (MORE) 
 ANDY (CONT'D) (to Helen) I just got off a plane that almost fell into the Pacific Ocean like a piece of rotten fruit... (to Joan) ... but did I mention it? 
 (moving to his desk) Now don't start lazing around, June. Let's get with it. 
 (under her breath) You get with it. He sits down at his desk and begins going through his drawers, looking for something. She lowers the paper and looks over at him: 
 JUNE (CONT'D) Do you like my hair this way, or do you like it straight? 
 It's very nice, Sluggo.   Go hose out the kennel. She goes back to reading. 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Where the hell are my nail clippers? The PHONE on his desk begins to RING: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) I told everybody to stay out of these drawers. 
 (reading the paper) I think I'll go down to the Amazon, and get involved with the trees. 
 Get this first, will you. 
 They need people, because that hole is getting... 
 (cutting her off) Remember, don't say I'm here 'til you find out who it is. She picks up the receiver and speaks into it: 
 Yeah?... I doubt that he's here at this present time... Yeah, maybe later today sometime... Who are you addressing? Uh, the executive kennel maid... uh-huh. Yeah. Okay, I'll tell him... So long. 
 Yeah?   Who was it? 
 Ferde at something Motors. He wants two payments by tomorrow or he's gonna come an' repop the van. 
 Bastard. 
 You know, you said you were going to get me a little Honda Elite to tool around in. 
 Don't give me a bad time, lard. I've got enough trouble with Iwo Jima and her complaints, alright? Now the woman doesn't even believe you're my niece. 
 Well, I'm not. 
 That's not the point I'm making. Suddenly irritated, he begins fumbling through a pile                  * of bills on top of the desk: 
 You know   what's gonna happen if I can't pay   these damn breeders and get some   adult dogs on the premises?    Pretty damn quick, some asses are   going to hit the pavement,   believe me. 
 So?    I'm sick of dog turds anyway. He scowls at her, then looks out the window: 
 Jesus, here   I am, sitting in the center of a   lot of wealth, the escalation   in crime couldn't be better, and   I'm not turning a damn nickel   on it... He catches sight of something outside:                                 * 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Oh shit.    There's Lee. 
 
 I'm in Vegas, delivering a couple a dogs to Wayne Newton. (to the dog) Duke, Fuss'! (to June) You don't know when to expect me. 
 Socorro!! Wait a minute!   I want to talk to you! The Low-Rider comes to a stop. Joan approaches the pas- senger window and leans down to Socorro: 
 Excuse me, Socorro, but do you mind if I ask what's happening, why are you leaving? 
 No se, lo siento. 
 I'm asking, where-are-you-going? 
 (indicating Balto) Esto me yerno, Balthazar. You speak please Balto para mi. 
 Yes, what's going on, are you bringing her back later or what? 
 Yeah, Monday I bring her back. 
 Monday? But this is Thursday, I can't stay here alone 'til Monday. 
 JOAN                             SOCORRO It's my understanding            Si, lunes, lunes. that Socorro lived here, otherwise, I would've made other plans. 
 Yeah, but she got her time off, too, man, you know. Joan straightens up, sighing angrily and looking up at the house: 
 Well, this is just glorious. The low-rider moves down the driveway and as it disap- pears onto the street, Joan moves to an electric box atop a metal column at the edge of the driveway. She presses the button and looks at the gates. They remain open. She steps over to the gates and tries to close them manually. The locking device fails to engage and a portion of it falls off into the bushes. 
 As she leans   down to look for the fallen part,   a pickup truck can be   seen parked down the street. The    back of the driver's head   (BUTCH GABLE) can be seen and on   the side panel of the   truck are the words "Canyon Tree   Surgeons." 
 
                                    * Hey, Andy!                                             * 
 BUTCH (CONT'D)                           * It's Butch! Get your ass in gear                       * and say hello to your old drinking buddy! She calls loudly out to him: 
 Andy's not here! He moves to the glass facade and peers inside, looking          * for the source of the voice: 
 Well, who are you, honey? 
 She's out of town, and there happens to be several other people in here trying to sleep, so... 
 Whyn't you come out and say hello? 
 Will you please go away!? 
 Come on, stick your head out the door an' let's see what you look like. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm sorry, but if you don't leave, I'm going to call the Foothill Patrol. 
 Well, fuck you, honey. 
 Tch, where does she find these                         * people.                                                * 
 I was just trying to be nice. (moving backwards to the flower bed) Go ahead an' call 'em, bitch, I don't give a shit. He leans down, picks up a dirt clod from the flower bed and throws it toward the window: 
 I'll just come back and kick your ass in for you. 
 Duke, platz! (to Joan) Always the name first, and then the command. 
 Now, in regard to any   aggressor seeking to give you a   bad time, I want to show you what   you can expect from a dog of   this caliber. 
 Here we have the dog's arsenal, so to speak. The animal is trained to apply pressure to specific points of the body until the bone is more or less crushed. (releasing the muzzle) If the attacker is bearing a weapon of any kind, be it a gun, a club, a knife or what-have-you, the dog will, excuse me for saying... ("politely" indicating his crotch) ... automatically go for the testicles. 
 Oh god, what if I don't want him to do that? 
 You want him to do that. 
 No, I just want him to scare someone. 
 Believe   me, this will scare them, as well   as incapacitate their mind and any   ability to maneuver against   you. 
 You know, I have an extremely sensitive reaction to dog dander, so maybe I shouldn't... 
 Let me ask you something. I like to get a general picture of the individual situation I'm working with. (CONTINUED) 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Are you married, single, living alone or with some other party? 
 I'm in the process of a divorce and I moved up here because my apartment was burglarized and... (suddenly mistrustful) But I'm not entirely alone, there's a housekeeper here, and several friends. 
 Well, the hills are hit heaven as far as burglaries go. And right up on Mulholland is where they found the fifth victim of the Westside Slasher... 
 No, please, don't tell me about that. 
 Believe me, I know what you're up against, being an attractive, and I take it, unattached woman, such as you are... (flicking his cigarettte away) But we're going to remedy that situation right now, and get you to feeling as safe as a little baby, alright? (indicating her notebook) What've we got there so far? 
 (reading her notes) Ober, platz, geh am platz, bringen, komm, sitz, fuss', fahrt and blieb. 
 Well, that's enough for a start on the basic control commands... He scans the grounds for signs of something we as yet know nothing of: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Now let's do a little work with the assailant. 
 
 Alright now, Joan, give him the command, 'Duke, wachen sie.' 
 Duke, wachen sie. 
 Good.   The dog is now on alert. 
 This is really a nice piece of real estate you've got here. 
 (tense and distracted) It's not mine, it's my sister's. 
 Oh, it's your sister's. (pause) And where's she? 
 (looking down at Duke) Am I doing this right? Shouldn't I be prepared for something? 
 Never look at your dog. 
 Never look at your dog?    Okay. 
 JOAN                       HARRY Oh my God!                               Duke, fasse! Duke responds immediately, lunging toward June, pulling Joan along with him. June screams and starts to run away. Harry moves after Joan, yelling ahead to June: 
 Dammit, June, don't exhibit fear until I tell you! Seeing the dog still in pursuit, June ignores the command and as Duke continues to tow Joan behind him: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Get him under control now, Joan. 
 I am... (struggling with Duke) Good boy, be nice. 
 Give him the off command! 
 I forgot it!     You tell him!   Duke, stop! 
 Duke, aus! 
 My golly, that was incredible. I                      * love this dog. Did you see that?                      * I can't believe how strong he is.                     * I felt like a rag doll...                             * 
 What did I tell you? 
 Ordinarily I wouldn't do this, even on a temporary rental basis, because he's the absolute top security and attack dog in the country. 
 Is this your sister? 
 Yes, that's her, with her third husband, Eric Ellerman. 
 Uhm hmm. (moving to another photograph) Wait a minute, who's this guy, isn't this Red Layls? 
 Yes. 
 No kidding. Your sister's involved with Red Layls? This guy's gotta be one of the five or ten richest men in the country, with business connections all over the place. (CONTINUED) 
 And she's your sister. That's amazing. I mean, this is an individual I'd really like to meet sometime. He leans in close to a photograph of Andy in a bikini. 
 Boy, look at that figure. I have to say, your sister is really an attractive looking woman. 
 Well, that's quite a compliment. I'll have to pass it on. 
 I'll skip back up in a day or two, okay, just to see how you're doing. 
 Okay. 
 And Joan, I want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you. 
 Oh well... (her gaze flits shyly away) ... thank you. 
 Feel free to call on me for anything. Anytime of the night or day, 24 hours. 
 And would you also thank your... As she gestures toward June, Harry takes hold of her hand, looking earnestly at her: (CONTINUED) 
 I sincerely mean that. 
 You big flirt. 
 Come on, dumpty, don't start that. (removing the jacket) This is quality clientele. It calls for a certain kind of approach. (nods toward the house) Just soak some of this in, will you? He steps past her and goes to the van: 
 (giving him the finger) Soak this. As he opens the back panel: 
 Start to pattern yourself. Breed up. (tossing the jacket inside the van) Observe the woman, for Christ sakes. 
 Oh screw her. He closes the back panel and as he moves past her: 
 You don't screw this type of individual. 
 You would. On his way to the driver's door: 
 This is the kind of atmosphere we want to gravitate toward. (opening the door) Did she even ask me the cost? (as he gets inside) Dammit, I really respect that. 
 grumbling as she moves to the passenger door: 
 Well I don't, he isn't even your dog. 
 How about a little smile. She quickly faces front and as the light changes, accelerates through the intersecion. 
 This is supposed to sound virginal, ladies, so let's try to fake it. 
 
 Don't do that. 
 Don't do what? 
 You're not supposed to look him straight in the eye. 
 You have a dog you can't look in the eye, Joan? 
 He's not just a dog. He's a Schutzhund trained attack dog. 
 Oh... He steps back from the dog as Joan leans down to give Duke some water from the cup. 
 I was told to avoid a direct gaze and always look at the base of the right or the left ear. 
 You don't have to go to all this trouble, I've offered to stay up at your sister's with you? 
 I can't tell you how mad I am at Lewie, that I have to leave him out here, tied to a tree... 
 God, you're stubborn, Joan. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm not stubborn, I'm so accommodating, it's sickening. She pats Duke on the head and stands up: 
 But you won't tell me what's really bothering you. Why don't you confide in me anymore? 
 I do. 
 No you don't. Come on, talk to me. Let's go have a drink after rehearsal. 
 (reluctantly) Tonight? A WOMAN chorus member sticks her head out the stage door: 
 Eddy, you better come, he's rehearsing the tenors! 
 I'm coming...! (then to Joan) How about tomorrow night then? 
 I don't know.    Let's say maybe. 
 (slightly annoyed) Well don't go out of your way, Joan. 
 Eddy?   Tomorrow's fine.   Okay? Before disappearing into the studio, he makes a gesture acknowledging her capitulation. 
 Well, I'd have to say this place                       * is a snap to break into. 
 I knew it.   I shouldn't have moved here. 
 Don't worry. The dog'll take care                      * of anyone trying to get inside. 
 I don't know what to do. Maybe I should move into a motel. 
 No, you don't have to do that. This is just some ding-dong that's trying to scare you. 
 Well he's succeeded. She sits down. 
 But you don't want to give off that impression, by acting too timid or afraid, because that's what invites an aggressive attitude from certain types of men.                                                   * 
                                     * I didn't invite this.                                  * * 
 For instance, don't go mincing                          * along, taking mousey little steps, and waving your hanky, because                          * you're drawing a target on yourself if you do... 
 Do I do that?                                           * (CONTINUED) 
 Well, let's see. Just walk back and forth the way you normally do. 
 (stands up) Well I don't normally walk back and forth, but... okay. She attempts a few steps then stops abruptly: 
 I'm sorry, I can't do it with you watching me. 
 Okay, but keep in mind that you want to exhibit a very confident attitude. Look like you know what you're doing and where you're going. 
 Uhm-hmm. 
 Just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive. 
 But I thought that's your point, no to attract... 
 No, no, you always want to remain a little bit attractive. Otherwise that can set somone off too. 
 This is just impossible. 
 You just can't win. 
 Sure you can, it's just a matter of degree. 
 Well darn it, I give up... Dropping her head into her hands. (CONTINUED) 
 Uh-oh. (moves over to her and touches her gently) Now what's this? 
 I'm sorry but this is really getting to me. 
 Tell you what. Let me take you out of here, buy you a drink, and               * see if we can't get your mind off these kind of things. 
 That's very sweet of you, Harry. I'd like to do that. 
 How long have you been divorced? 
 Oh, I'd say seven or eight years, around there. 
 And so you  like, well, assuming you live a  single existence, I                       * mean most  men don't seem to enjoy that, I've  read. She lifts her glass, takes a sip, then sets it back down: 
 I have to  tell you the truth... (he  pauses) I've been  observing your hands, and I have to  use the word exquisite. 
 Really?   Well... (CONTINUED) 
 You're probably quite a singer too. (looking back to her) I'd like to come down and catch you sometime. 
 Yes, anytime. Do you like Classical music? 
 Very much. Even to the degree that when it's playing on the radio, I sometimes have to turn the damn thing off. Thinking he is revealing a peculiar brand of wit, she laughs. 
 HARRY (CONT'D) I just mean it starts to get to me too much. I can't swallow my saliva. 
 I'm sorry.     I shouldn't have laughed. 
 Yeah, symphonies, operettas, poems, things like that. All those type of things really get to me. 
 (looking intensely at him) Uhm hmm. 
 You're full of surprises, Harry, you know that? That you've actually read Dante's Divine Comedy I mean... 
 Well, it was a while back there that I did, yeah... 
 You know that part? 'Yet as a wheel moves smoothly, free from jars, My will and my desire were turned by love, The love that moves the sun and other stars.' He nods, while Joan, hoping to disguise the extent of her emotions, looks down and begins moving her wine in circles: 
 JOAN (CONT'D) For some reason, the sublimity of that always touches me. 
 You know, it's very sad. I look at my sister and all her marriages and affairs, not to mention the mess my own life is in, and I think it's very sad and very bleak that men and women can't manage to be friends. 
 It depends on the man and woman you're talking about. They arrive at the fence and as she speaks she rests one of her hands on the railings: 
 What a tragedy that sex is often such a barrier to friendship between men and women. 
 There I disagree with you. 
 You know Dante and Beatrice never slept together. 
 Is that right? (catching himself) Oh yeah, I forgot that part. 
 Well, anyway... I shouldn't have had so much wine... because I prefer to go a little slow here. 
 We can go as slow as you want... why not? 
 So... (looking at him) You think men and women can be friends? 
 Oh yeah, absolutely. 
 Alright now, don't play too rough. The excitement has unleashed Duke's libido and as she tries to resume her mission, he makes a few attempts to rise against her flanks. Just before she approaches the mailbox, he manages to grip his paws around one of her thighs and unmistakably begins to hump her: 
 No, no, Duke, don't do that, that's not nice. Now sitz. And behave yourself. He sits, panting, with a furtive expression on his face, watching as she steps over to the mailbox and opens it. She takes out a number of letters and sorts through them as she starts back to the house with Duke following. They are in the main addressed to Andy, but in amongst them she finds a bank statement addressed to her, as well as a letter with her name written in pencil on the envelope. She opens it, takes the contents out and stops suddenly: 
 HELEN (CONT'D) 'Lewie.   Mad at me.' 
 HELEN (O.S.) (CONT'D) Doesn't want a divorce. Maybe he's trying to scare me, or punish me. Helen leans her head in close to Joan's: 
 HELEN (CONT'D) It's definitely not Lewie. 
 You're not exactly a disinterested party. You're always promoting his cause... 
 Number one, I've known the man for fifteen years, number two, he... loves you. 
                                                           * 
 (O.S.)                              * 'Eddy Revere, a little moody, but a good friend and very reliable. BACK TO                                                     * 
 HELEN (CONT'D) An opinion I don't share, but... What do you think about Vincent?                        * (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) He has a terrible temper. We know that. 
 HELEN (V.O.) (CONT'D) 'Vincent Gallardo.  Doubtful. We've never had an unpleasant word.' Aren't you  lucky. 'Kenneth Dowler...'                                    * 
 'Always trying to connect with me, proposing private rehearsals at his apartment.' You know what he asked me yesterday? 
 HELEN (CONT'D) What my cup size was.                                  * (back to the list) Steve Jewel! Who's Steve Jewel? 
 My piano tuner. 
 Is he weird or something? 
 Well everyone appears weird to me                         * right now. So I put every                                 * possible name down, except for one, who happens to be post- burglary. 
 I think it's him, the tree surgeon. He sounds very suspicious... 
 Just don't tell Lewie about the phone message or the thing I got in the mail, because he'll just use it to... 
 I already did. 
 (annoyed) Helen. 
 I'm extremely concerned about this situation. I don't want you living alone up there. She regards him suspiciously. He modulates his voice to a more persuasive and intimate tone: 
 Now come on, wouldn't you feel much safer if you moved back into our house? 
 No, I wouldn't feel comfortable about doing that. 
 Come here... 
 Darn it, Lewie. 
 What? Are you afraid of your responses to me? 
 Tch... 
 (amorously) Why are you resisting? 
 These are very upsetting, really shitty circumstances I'm dealing with and I... 
 Do you know how hard all this has been on me? Do you think it's that easy for me to admit I want you back? 
 Couldn't you spare yourself then? 
 Are you seeing anybody?   Just tell me that. 
 Come on, you're not the abstinent type. 
 Please, don't judge me by your scrotal excesses, Lewie. 
 I know you're seeing somebody. 
 (suspicious again) Are you spying on me? 
 Come on. Be open about it. (kisses her on the neck, then) Who is it? (CONTINUED) 
 (back to Lewie) Alright, I am seeing someone, okay? He pulls back, narrowing his eyes at her: 
 I don't believe you.   Who is it? 
 You know, I hate to mention this but we're having a slight problem with Duke. 
 What? 
 Well... (hands him a cup) He keeps getting up and trying to ride on one's extremities. 
 Oh don't worry about that. (CONTINUED) 
 Especially Socorro, who  can't speak English, let alone  German, and sometimes she has to  go pulling him from room to  room like a vacuum cleaner. 
 No, that's just normal in most of your adult males. Some percentage of the time they're gonna attempt to make these vulgar motions on your person. He places his arm on the couch behind her: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) You just have to be very firm and stay on top of him. In the sky beyond the hills a helicopter beams its light. 
 It's not affecting you too much, is it? 
 No, it's very nice. 
 It's Chopin, a nocturne. 
 You know what's affecting me? 
 Night-piece, it means. 
 You are. 
 I think I should say something. 
 Don't worry about it. 
 That's the problem though, I want to be honest with you... 
 There's no problem. He leans over and kisses her.      After a moment she breaks off: 
 Because I recently realized something about myself. That I've slept with a number of men in my life just because I didn't want them not to like me. 
 (not averse to being one of them) Uhm hmm. 
 But the thing is, I didn't like most of them that much, so why did I care whether they liked me or not? 
 You know, I'm not one of these guys who's going to look upon you as an object. 
 Oh, I know, that's not what I'm saying... 
 Because I look upon a woman as a whole. 
 What I'm saying is I don't know if right now I might not go to bed with you because I don't want to be alone, so I thought maybe we... could try to explore other modes, or... (CONTINUED) 
 Other modes? 
 I mean, there are other ways of being intimate, that people don't even realize. 
 Uhm hmm. 
 Which doesn't mean I'm not attracted to you. 
                                     * But you don't want me to bring you                      * around.                                                 * 
                                     * Pardon me?                                              * 
 Other modes is fine. You don't have to be shy with me. (moving closer to her) I've been asked to do do every kind of thing in the book. He kisses her once more. Her response, is far less tentative. As it begins to border on the ardent, she breaks off again: 
 God, it's so hard to pioneer in this area... when you keep doing that... 
 (V.O.) (on answering machine) Please leave a message after the tone... Thank you. 
 (V.O.) Joan?  It's Andy... Are you there? (pause) I want to inform you that these people are drugging me... 
 There's no phone in my room, or cable TV. I've had to sneak into this cell next to me, with some poor lithium zombie lying here like a comatose cabbage... 
 Maybe I better take this. She tries to move closer to the phone, hindered by Harry's weight. 
 (V.O.) And this is the lengths this assassin is willing to go to suppress me, because he does not want me to have my book. 
 Harry, excuse me, it's my sister. He moves off of her and she leans across his torso, pinning him to the bed as she addresses the speaker: 
 Andy... It's Joan. 
 Oh you're there. Thank God. 
 Where are you? Are you in New York? 
 No, that's what I'm telling you. I went into the hospital first, for one day, just to have a simple bone spur... 
 I know, you told me that, but where are you now? 
 ... and the next thing I know I'm transported some place the hell else, against my knowledge, while I was completely medicated... 
 Andy, wait a minute... 
 Do you understand the implications of this, I have no underpants on, and absolutely no recourse to my rights! Joan sits up, and in her alarm is unaware that one of her hands grabs hold of a swatch of hair on Harry's chest, causing him to wince: 
 Oh God, this is because of Red, isn't it? 
 Yes, it's because of Red, isn't that obvious!? Evidencing interest in their exchange, Harry manages to reach to his cigarettes on the night stand. 
 And if he and that fuckface lawyer in his paid employ, think they can ... Wait. (whispering) I think I hear someone. 
 What am I supposed to do? 
 Find out where she is. 
 Hello? Andy? You have to tell me where you are. 
 I told you, I don't know where I am, these bastards are very clever. She looks at the heavily-meshed wires covering the window: 
 ANDY (CONT'D) I'm in some private cracker box in the boonies, with godammed wires on the windows... 
                                     * Ask her the name of the first                           * hospital.                                               * 
 Andy, tell me the name of the                           * hospital you checked yourself into. 
  (V.O.) Mount Haven, it's  in the South Bay, and don't ask  me these inane                      * questions, just do  something...                        * 
 Tell her we'll find it. 
 We'll find it, okay, so don't worry... 
 (V.O.) I hear someone coming, I have to get off. 
 ... because I'm sure there's some simple explanation... 
 What should I do? Should I call the police? 
 No. 
 Let's just take a run out there. 
 
 You mean right now? 
 I told her she shouldn't do this, I mean, to be so maniacally obsessed with this soul of mud that she'd even want to write a book about him, is beyond me... 
 Well the guy must be doing something right to have amassed that amount of wealth. 
 But she does this, you know, she just periodically drops the entire weight of her life on me like a ton of bricks. 
 Joan, can I make a suggestion? 
 Yes, please, anything. 
 You better try an keep up a little with the flow or we're gonna get cited. 
 How do you know he was her physician? 
 Hell, I could come in here and say I was a doctor an' sign somebody out. 
 And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's doctor. A.C. According to this he was her doctor. 
 Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot? 
 That's a lie. She was in here for an operation, then she was drugged and taken out of here against her will. 
 Okay, let's stop wasting time here, where is this guy, what's his name? A.C. (looking at the screen) His name is Dr. Monroe Park. (back to them) It doesn't say where he is. 
 I can't believe this, you mean there's no phone number or address? 
 What kind of business are you running here, buddy? A.C. All I can do is give you the data I have on here. If you want to call the Physician's Registry... (gestures to a bank of pay phones) There's some public phones over there. He's probably listed with them. He turns away from them and back to the computer. 
 Nothing.   No Dr. Monroe Park. 
 How am I supposed to find this man? Maybe he used a false name, or maybe he isn't even a doctor... 
 I've got a couple of ideas here. First, we want to try an' connect with Red Layls. 
 No, I don't want anything to do with Red, I'm terrified of him. 
 There's nothing to be afraid of, believe me. 
 I mean, you hear all kinds of things, about government kickbacks, and Panamanian drug couriers and... 
 I know these type of guys. You take away their money and their power, and what are they. 
 No, really, I have to do something. I have to go to the police... He stops walking and takes a hold of her hand: 
 Just hold off a bit on that, honey, will you? 
 Oh, that's nice. 
 What? 
 You called me honey. 
 Well that's what you are. (CONTINUED) 
 HARRY (CONT'D) I want to get a hold of this top private investigator, who's a close, personal friend of mine, okay, and get him to find out who this doctor is. 
 Harry, this isn't your problem and I don't want to draw you into it...                    * 
 Don't worry, we're going to find your sister. (he kisses her) Everything's going to turn out fine. 
 Okay, go ahead, I've gotta hear this. Who is it this time? 
 No, it's not what you think. This is a very unique individual I'm talking about. Plus there's a mind there, as well as a body and a face. 
 Didn't I hear this before, about                       * the hostess at Denny's, that was a college graduate and had a mole like Elizabeth Taylor? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm telling you, this is something completely different. You gotta meet her. She sings opera and has                      * the hands of a hula dancer... 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Anyway, you remember that private                      * detective that use to come in here all the time? On the portly side, bald, had kind of crossed eyes... 
 Oh.   Fred, you mean? 
 Yeah, that's him. How do you think I could get a hold of him? 
 Oh gee, I think he's moved out of the area and went into gourmet                         * snacks.                                                * 
 What?!                                                 * June, mouthing "There's some guy over there wants to see you." Then she gestures to a Continental Town Car in the parking lot next to The House of Bliss. 
 Mr. Bliss, I'd like to have word with you, if I may. 
 You're talking to the wrong godammed party, you know that? 
 I think it's in your best interest to hear me out. 
 No, you hear me out, friend... He takes note of the driver (STURGE) coming around the front of the car. He stops a few feet off and unbuttons his jacket, revealing the cross-strap of a shoulder holster. 
 Look, I happen to have a very high regard for this party. And maybe I even have some feelings of a personal nature here. 
 Well I don't want to appear to be taking unfair advantage of you... (CONTINUED) 
 Goddamned right. 
 But in developing certain information on you, it's come to our attention that your name isn't Harry Bliss. That in fact, your name is Eugene Earl Axline... * 
 Wait a minute. 
 And that both the I.R.S., and an impressive number of creditors in several Eastern cities... (looks up at Harry) ... seem to be somewhat interested in your whereabouts. Harry stands up, leaving the vulnerable area of his stomach framed in the passenger window. When he leans back down, a deeply conflicted expression is apparent on his face: 
 You know, that's not necessarily entirely accurate, I mean, I don't know where you come up with these so-called facts, but... (at a loss, he looks off, shaking his head) I can't go sneaking around, stealing this lady's property. 
 I'd like to pose that the name and reputation of this very decent man, is not the property of Mrs. Ellerman, or her sister.                       * He takes a voucher from the folder and sets the file aside: 
 And it's my hope that we can avoid any unpleasant eventualities, either for you, or for someone you have such admirable feelings toward... 
 What do you mean, 'unpleasant'? 
 I mean that Mr. Layls is prepared to do whatever it takes to confiscate this document. And if you'd like to be of some assistance                   * to us, by finding it and turning                      * it over to me, he'd like to offer                     * you this very generous gift.                          * He holds the voucher out to Harry who avoids looking at it: 
 Jesus Christ, I hardly know the woman. I'm just renting a dog to her, that's all. (looking at Moncrief) What kind of a person do you take me for? Harry stands in the parking lot, watching as the Con- tinental drives off. He starts to move toward The House of Bliss, then stops and opens the voucher, braving a look at it. 
 He watches sullenly as her car disappears through the gates, then lifts a can of beer to his mouth and drinks. 
 ANGLE - UPSTAIRS On an upstairs landing, she searches through some drawers and cupboards. Then spotting Socorro on the level below: 
 Oh, Socorro... 
 JOAN (CONT'D) Could you come in here, por favor? As Socorro comes to the landing, Joan indicates one of the open desk drawers: 
 I-am-looking-for-my-sister's-book. Socorro steps closer and glancing into the the now disorderly contents of the drawer, shakes her head defensively: 
 No.   No es mi. (CONTINUED) 
 La manuscripto (holding an empty manila envelope in her hand) ... de mi hermana, Andy, si? (pointing at herself) I go... toda la casa... (makes a wide sweeping gesture with her hand) Everywhere... Looking y looking... (pointing at her own eye) And no es anywhere. Sabe usted? 
 No se, no entiendo... (backing away) Lo siento... 
 I told this detective I wanted to press charges against Red Layls, for abducting Andy, for burglarizing my apartment, for breaking into her house... 
 Oh come on, you're way off. 
 And that he's been trying to scare and intimidate me in case I might have read something in her manuscript that he doesn't want anybody to know. And you know what he said? That I haven't given him probable cause to even go and question Red Layls, or his lawyer... 
 Well, he's right, I could've told you that. This is a man who goes fishing with the President, honey. (grabs a pack of cigarettes) He's a little high up to go around burglarizing people and sending them nasty notes. So why don't you just ease back on this thing for awhile... (lighting up) Life's too godammed short. 
 I can't do that, Harry. This is my sister. I can at least make out a missing persons report on her, and then I want to talk to the private detective friend of yours. 
 I'm trying to chase the guy down, okay? But don't go and make yourself sick... He begins pushing the paraphernalia around on his desk: 
 I mean, Jesus, why don't you just get this damn thing and hand it over to me and I'll give it to these guys. (CONTINUED) 
 You mean to Red? 
 Yeah, to Red, or whoever... 
 Well if I ever find, it, that's the last thing I'd do with it. 
 Dammit, you're making my work more difficult for me, you know that! 
 What is this, have I come at the wrong time or something? 
 I tell you what the hell to do and you don't listen to me! Joan looks down at the floor, attempting a drollery: 
 Well, someone abates your maidenhood and suddenly feels they can start ordering you around. 
 I'm not ordering you around. I'm just giving you my opinion. And maybe I get tired of hearing about this stuff all the time, this book business, this manu-whatever, and Red Layls, and your sister. 
 Oh.  Well... (deeply hurt) I'm sorry if I've overtaxed you with my problems, Harry, but I never asked you to consider them a part of your work. (stands up) So why don't we speak when you're in a better frame of mind. As she crosss to the door, Harry stands up: 
 Ah honey, now... (CONTINUED) 
 Aw honey yourself. 
 again seated at his desk. He stares out the window, in the throes of a moral conflict. Then making some sudden resolve he opens a drawer, takes out an envelope and a paperback book and lays them on the desk. 
 Oh, Socorro, please-keep-the-dog ... el perro, in... in piso inferior, por favor... exercise room... Tiene allergy... (CONTINUED) 
 Ah, si.   Duke, venga aqui. 
 (V.O.) (over above action) ... And now I'd like you to meet the director and the star of the smash hit movie, Blood And Kisses. So let's give them a nice warm welcome... 
 (V.O.) Before we begin, why don't we show the audience a clip from the movie. Do you want to set it up for us? 
 (V.O.) Well, it's a bit... this scene involves... just go ahead and run it. 
 (V.O.) (to the Director) I must say, this is a dazzling piece of work and you two are a dynamite wedding of talents... 
 (V.O.) But I hear you're a little   sensitive about the criticism you've   had about the amount of sexual   violence and nudity you have in the   picture... 
                                      * 'Any scars, marks or tattoos.'                          * 
 (V.O.) (overlapping her) Well it's absurd. In the first place, I didn't invent this genre. And it happens to be a tradition in this kind of film that women make more interesting and exciting victims than men do... 
 (V.O.) Well, I understand... She looks up from the document to the screen. Then both women look at each other with their mouths open: 
 (V.O.) And secondly the violence directed                      * at Mimi's character is an essential component of the story, and is not in any sense of the word, gratuitous. 
 (V.O.) But, Mimi, now what about you. That scene where you run nude through Times Square with those multiple knife wounds all over your body. That must've been horrendous for you. 
 
 JOAN                          ACTRESS (V.O.) Assholes.                 Yes it was, very horrendous... 
 (to Helen) Come on, let me drive you home. (CONTINUED) 
 HELEN                           ACTRESS (V.O.) Wait.                              But what helped me enormously is that we shot the film            * in sequence... 
 (V.O.) ... and that scene came directly after the gang rape in the elevator. Harry steps INTO VIEW, only half-listening and grumbling: 
 What's her problem. 
 (V.O.) Also, I love Dick's taste so I knew he was handling it very artistically... 
 Now what's she complaining about? 
 HARRY                              HOST (V.O.) Give me that.                      Well, you're just delightful in the movie and you're both great fun to have on the show. Thanks for coming.                  * (to camera) Iwo's got some shit she's          Don't go away, we'll be             * looking at...                      right back.                         * (Before you go, let's look          * at another clip from Blood         * And Kisses!)                       * 
 ... I come over here to look at the ball game and you give me these clowns. A COMMERCIAL comes on. June hands him the remote and he sits down on the couch, channeling to a BASEBALL GAME: 
 I mean, what's wrong with these women. 
 You want a know something? 
 They don't want to hear the truth, that's what disturbs me. (CONTINUED) 
 There's some people that don't treat me like you do. 
 You tell them the truth and they come at you with a cleaver. 
 I know one guy that says very complimentary things to me, like that I have nice features and a sense of humor.                                       * 
 What guy? 
 Some guy I met, that likes me. He looks at her, then reaches over and places a hand affectionately on the nape of her neck: 
 You're going to leave me, lard, just after I've broken you in, and taught you the fine art of dog training? 
 Maybe. (waits for a                                   * response, then)                               * As if you cared.                                      * 
 (shakes his head and sighs) Women. (then back to the TV) What's the score? 
 Helen, quick, get in the car! Helen leans down and looks in at her: 
 What? 
 Helen!   Help me! 
 I can't!   I can't move!! 
 Why didn't you have the damn dog with you, that's what he's for! 
 I told you, he was in the house. 
 What the hell good is that! You have to have him with you at all times! 
 JOAN                             HARRY I can't have him with me         Didn't I tell you, right all the time, he's killing       from the start, it's my mucous membranes...           very dangerous to fool around with people like Red Layls! 
 No you didn't, I said he was dangerous, and you said he wasn't... 
 Yeah, but that's before he tried to part your hair with an axe! 
 I don't know if it was him.   Maybe it was this tree surgeon... She starts to move toward the bedroom and he stops her: 
 Wait a minute. How tall was he? About six one? Kind of ugly? Helen, now with a drink in her hand, steps INTO VIEW behind Harry: 
 He was about your height. 
 No, he wasn't, he was much taller. 
 Well let's not quibble, for god sakes. The  man is a complete maniac... (to Harry) And excuse me for saying, but this isn't a job for an amateur... 
 But wait, he couldn't be the same man who burglarized my apartment, because that's before I came up here... (CONTINUED) 
 Forget about him. I know what I'm talking about... 
                                    * Joan, if you don't call the                            * police, I'm not staying here.                          * 
 Guy like Red Layls have hit men working for them, that drive them around and do their dirty work for them. 
 Gee whiz, first it isn't Red, now it is Red. I can't keep up with these sudden reversals. 
 Alright... I'm calling a cab. ON Helen, as she clumps away in the direction of the guest bedroom: 
                                     * You know what I think?   It's more than one person. 
 It's not more than one person. I'm telling you who the hell it is! 
 (O.S.) But I don't think Red would have someone sing into my answering machine... 
 It doesn't seem like something he'd do. 
 Dammit, Joan!! She steps out of the closet and comes toward the bedroom,        * dressed in one of Andy's negligees. 
 God, what is this?! I can't say anything to you anymore, you're so darn touchy! 
 You can mention anything you want,                     * honey. I'm just trying to keep you from turning up face down, that's all. After a moment: 
 HARRY (CONT'D)                           * I mean, I can't leave you up here alone now... 
 It's Andy's -- 
 It's very becoming on you. 
 -- Maybe I don't quite fill it out. 
 Yes you do. 
 Well? 
 What are you going to do now?   Are you going to leave? 
 Yeah, I'm going to skip down the hill, take care of a few things, pick up some clothes... 
 Could you be back for dinner, around 7:00? 
 Yeah.   Sure. 
 Good. She waves to him     and pulls the rest of the way out of the garage, revealing     the ax handle still embedded in the front of the car,     its handle sharply angled up from the hood like a soup     ladle. (CONTINUED) 
 Hi. 
 Ella no esta aqui. 
 I just want to look for my... (indicating his wrist) ... watch, I think I left it... (gesturing toward the living room) ... in there. 
 Ah si, es okay. 
 Thanks, Soco. 
 
 Harry! What the hell do you think you're doing? 
 I just got a phone call, honey, from a prominent entertainer up in Vegas, a very well-known singer... 
 Who is it, Paul Anka? 
 He's a rock star, you probably wouldn't know the name. Anyway, I gotta run a couple a dogs up to him... 
 You know, it's T-minus zero and counting, Harry, on this whole shitty deal. 
 Now Iwo, don't blow this way out of proportion. You  think I want to do this. I need  the extra cash right now, believe me. 
 If you leave, I'm getting Top Lock to come over and change the front and back doors! 
 HARRY                              ADELE Look, I'm only talking                (screaming at about a short period of                the dogs) time here.                         Ming! Tippy! Shut up!! 
 I mean it! You get in that van, and I'm taking my building back and putting in a Fingernail Salon! 
 Come on now, honey, don't say things like that... He puts an arm around her, giving her a perfunctory hug: 
 Let's not make a big issue out of it... (kisses her on the cheek) Okay? 
 It's really very nice looking, honey. 
 Do you like it? 
 Yeah.   I do.   Very much. She finishes securing the watch. 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Thank you. 
 You're welcome. 
 Yeah it's great and it's something I really needed, so... He leans over and kisses her on the cheek, then picks up his fork and begins poking with disinterest at his food. 
 Is anything wrong? (CONTINUED) 
 No. Nothing's wrong.   Everything's fine. She resumes eating. Then, desirous of     drawing his atten- tion, she fixes her gaze on the table    top and smiles pensively, making the assumption that    he is looking at her. When no response is forthcoming,     she attempts a verbal solicitation: 
 (without looking up) You're probably wondering why I'm smiling. 
 What? 
 I was just thinking that I find this moody side of you very attractive. 
 Oh, uh-huh. 
 In fact, if you want to know, and I can see you're dying to... (reaches over and caresses his back) I completely adore you. 
 Well, same here, honey. 
 Why are you all wet? 
 You know, there is something I feel I gotta say here, Joan, that's been preying on my mind. Something I maybe should've handled a bit differently with you from the start, about this particular situation I'm in... 
 What situation? (CONTINUED) 
 Well, you recall I mentioned to you a while back, that I was finished... Socorro steps INTO VIEW, addressing Joan with great excitement: 
 SOCORRO                            HARRY Senora, ven rapido. Mira           ... with a certain que estoy en las noticias          relationship, and I, de la televicion!                  more or less, am, but... 
 Mira, alli estoy. 
 (V.O.) (over the above) ... Regarding an earlier press                        * release announcing Mrs. Ellerman's                    * intention to publish her book,                        * which purportedly contains                            * several explosive details concerning                  * Redmon Layls' controversial business dealings. 
 (V.O.) Mr. Layls' lawyer, Laurence                           * Moncrief, had this to say when asked if he was concerned about what might be revealed in the Ellerman book: 
 I have no knowledge whatsoever of Mrs. Ellerman's so-called book, or her alleged disappearance, which appears to have all the ear marks of a publicity stunt. 
 (to Harry, outraged) Can you believe this?! 
 (V.O.) Recent reports of Layls' failing health were denied by his personal physician, Dr. Park. When questioned in a phone interview, he responded that the elusive billionaire... 
 (V.O.) ... was recovering from quote, 'nothing more than the treatment of an ordinary virus.' Meanwhile... She points to the sign over the building's entrance: 
 Do you see that? 
 HARRY                         REPORTER (V.O.) What?                            ... this seems to be another intriguing JOAN                     episode in the stormy Monroe Park! That's the          career of Andy Ellerman, name of the man who checked      one-time Washington Andy out of the hospital!        playgirl and erstwhile companion to one of the HARRY                    country's wealthiest I'm not sure that was the        men... This is Heidi guy's name.                      Robles reporting to you from Monroe Park Center in San Dimas... 
 Yes it was.                                              * * She looks quickly back to the screen -- a commercial comes on.                                                         * 
 What did she say? San Dimas? (then to Harry) Where's San Dimas? 
 Let's call the T.V. station and find out. 
 This is not the way you want to go about this, honey. As she moves OUT OF VIEW into the living room, he turns           * to Socorro:                                                       * * 
 Tell her, Soco. She shouldn't mess with these people. 
 Will you just once take the benefit of my advice? (CONTINUED) 
 First you tell me I go around acting too timid... 
 Yeah, but this is a whole different situation here... 
 And now when I suddenly feel like I could save the Pope in an earthquake, you start trying to... 
 This is not the Pope we're talking about here, believe me. 
 That's just a figure of speech. They disappear out the front door. 
 Dammit, Joan, these people are holding all the cards. They'll probably throw you into that bughouse with your sister. 
 You want to go there and call 'em a bunch of names, throw a lot of accusations at them? They don't care. People with that kind of money behind them, with their kind of connections, they never go to jail, you never see them behind bars. 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Am I getting through to you? 
 Alright. 
 (to himself) Jesus Christ. 
 This is just nuts, what you're doing. 
 Will you stop trying to undermine me every inch of the way. 
 (gesturing out the window) Look at this goddamned traffic.                         * 
 Anyway, I didn't ask you to drag along with me. 
 You're the one that's dragging along. (gesturing at a semi in front of them) Go around the goddamned truck.                          * 
 Don't tell me what to do. 
 Okay, just let me drive the goddamned car, that's all I ask. 
 Why should I let you drive? 
 Why? I'll tell you why, because you're a terrible driver, that's why. 
 Oh, now all the ugly little truths are coming out. 
 You operate this vehicle like it was a cane with a red tip painted on the end of it. 
 Don't talk to me, Harry. I mean it, just don't say another word to me! 
 JOAN (CONT'D) I was doing just fine until you started in on me... 
 (gesturing at the ax) Driving around with a goddamned ax stuck in your car... 
 And now look at me.   I've got purpose tremors... 
 Is something the fuck bothering you, pal? 
 Can I at least offer some advice? 
 No. 
 Good. Just barge into  the place, honey, and play the big hero. (pauses for a response) When he tells you your sister's not there, what're you going to do, cry? She stops walking and as he moves up beside her, looks defiantly at him: 
 Okay.   What? 
 This isn't going to work.   You look like a busboy. They approach a nurses' station and Harry steps forward to address one of TWO NURSES behind the counter: 
 Excuse me, Nurse... 
 I hope you know what you're doing. 
 Don't worry.   Just do what I told you. They approach room 206. (In the hallway outside the adjacent room, an old man in a hospital gown is seated in a wheelchair. He wears a stingy-brim hat on his head and reads a pamphlet entitled "Colostomy and You.") (CONTINUED) 
 What's the problem, dear? NURSE ONE We're trying to contact Doctor                     * Park, just to be sure he's authorized you to examine Mrs. Ellerman, because you know, we have to follow certain... 
 I understand.    You're doing your job. NURSE ONE (trying to look around him) Where did your assistant...? 
 She had to step inside for a moment, to relieve herself. 
 And if this little kinglet of corporate shit thinks he can get away with this, he's greatly mistaken. Just wait 'til he hears what I'm going to come out with now. 
 Put this on. 
 Remember when he passed me off as staff and I was put on official government payroll all through Maui and the Yucatan Mission? 
 No, I don't.   And hurry up, will you. And as Andy steps into the skirt, Joan takes over the uncompleted buttoning chores: 
 Yes you do, remember, when I almost died of the vomito negro? Well that's when he was doing all that illegal oil drilling off the Mexican Gulf... She turns to look critically at her face in the mirror: 
 Have you got any lipstick? 
 That's very correct. (CONTINUED) 
 I'd say female troubles, mainly. 
 Sometimes he does, yes. (a beat) By the way, did anyone ever tell you what attractive eyebrows you have? NURSE ONE (thrown) Oh, well, no, they haven't... Her attention is diverted to a SECOND NURSE entering the wing, calling out to her and making a summoning gesture: NURSE ONE Excuse me a minute, Doctor. Harry watches as she moves away, and while the two Nurses engage in an exchange some distance down the hall, he steps back to the door, opens it and sticks his head inside: 
 of Joan and Andy, the former whispering urgently in ref- erence to the latter's red hair: 
 What about her hair? 
 Who's he? 
 
 Certainly. He moves to the door, opens it, blocking the Nurse's view into it with his body. 
 (O.S.) Don't worry Mrs. Ellerman, we'll be right back. Andy, wearing dark glasses and with her hair hidden up under the stingy-brim hat, steps out into the hallway. 
 Which way? 
 Don't mention it. The Nurse watches briefly as they move away, then extracting a key from her pocket, she steps over to the door and locks it. 
 And this man, who wouldn't know the truth if it came up and spit him in the eye, is accusing me of lying... She hands him the skirt out through the window: 
 You know what that prick had his lawyer say to me? 
 That I   was a pretty, grudge- bearing   little malcontent, grasping at some   splinter of celebrity for myself   at his expense. Can you believe   that? She hands him out the blouse and he turns politely away from her semi-nudity as he hands her the doctor's jacket. 
 Here, put this on. 
 I mean, the arrogance... (getting into the jacket) What did she say your name was? 
 Harry. 
 (flirtatiously) Have you got a cigarette, Harry? 
 Stay in the car. Don't talk to anybody, and I'll be right back. 
 Fuck! He turns and moves OUT OF SIGHT. 
 Christ. A soft WHISTLE comes from the vicinity of the windows behind her, followed by Harry's voice, whispering: 
 (O.S.) Joan?   Are you there? 
 He stands several feet below, looking up at the window. 
 Is that you? 
 Yes, it's me.    Hurry up, will you! 
 I'm having a little trouble getting back in. 
 Oh great, Harry. What have you got me into? 
 Don't worry, honey... 
 You have to get me out of here! 
 Everything's under control, just hang on a few more minutes and I'll be right back, okay? As he moves out of sight, her attention is drawn to the sound of MUFFLED VOICES in the hallway. In a panic, she starts toward the bathroom, changes her mind, moves to the bed and gets into it. As the door begins to open, she grabs one of the pillows and quickly covers her head with it. 
 Andy?   It's Larry Moncrief. 
 
 Would you care to sit up for a minute? I'd like to talk to you. 
 You son of a bitch! 
 Who the hell do you think it is?! RED Sweetheart?   Is that you? She pulls the dark glasses off... 
 No thanks to you, it's me. ... and throws them onto the dashboard. 
 Aw, Jesus. 
 Before he arrives, I'd like you to take a look at a list of certain deletions and expurgations, which if agreed to... He removes several typed pages, stapled together and looks down at the pillow covering Joan's face: 
 ... Red is, very generously, I think, prepared to offer his sanction to a sanitized version of your book. No response. Moncrief glances over at Sturge, standing near the door, then back at the figure on the bed. 
 I think you should know, that if you push this too far, you run the risk of having him withdraw his consent to your well-being. (pauses, then) I don't think we want that, do we, Andy? He reaches down and removes the pillow.    Joan looks fear- fully up at him: 
 Andy's not here. 
 I can see that, Miss Spruance. Would you care to tell me where she is? 
 As a matter of fact, she happens to be on her way to the police right now, accompanied by a close friend of mine... Her bluff is immediately belied by: 
 (O.S.) Honey?    It's me again. Moncrief and Joan look toward the window: 
 (O.S.) I have to tell you something. Joan jumps from the bed and moves to address Harry: 
 Don't say a word, Harry!       I'm not alone! Moncrief looks at the chauffeur, gesturing toward the door. 
 Sturge. Sturge exits to the hallway, leaving the door open. 
 (O.S.) Who's there? 
 I think you better come in here, Mr. Bliss. 
 Shit. 
 Just go get Andy and leave, will you! 
 That's what I'm trying to tell you... 
 I'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement. 
 What agreement? 
 POV - HARRY 
 (to Moncrief) Bullshit! I never agreed to anything! (to Joan) This asshole approached me and tried to bribe me into working for them, and I told him to go to hell! 
 
 I believe an agreement was implicit in your acceptance of my check. 
 - 
 Oh, you want to see your check? 
 (V.O.) Oh Harry, how could you... 
 Honey, don't go by anything this guy says, because I'm the only one who knows what the hell I'm doing. (pulls the envelope from his back pocket) It just slipped my mind, I was going to tell you. (holds it up) See? I never cashed the fucking thing! 
 Are you alright? ... And in response to Andy's stoical nod: 
 No you're not. (embracing her) What did that bastard do to you? 
 I need a Kleenex. She moves toward the nightstand with Joan following: 
 You know what they're trying to do, don't you? To force you into signing some kind of agreement that... 
 Wait, I want to tell you what he said to me... She extracts a tissue from a dispenser on the nightstand: 
 ANDY (CONT'D) He said I was the only woman he's ever really cared for... 
 What?! 
 And when he said it... (blowing her nose) ... he had a tear in his eye... 
 Well this moves to the top of the list, Red, as one of your more stunning achievements. 
 Certainly. 
 
 Andy, you don't know what you're saying. You're suffering from hostage syndrome or something. 
 Well, after all I do love him. 
 You 'love' him?! 
 Yes, he's been a very important man in my life, you know that. 
 (raising her voice) Oh, now he's not a fecal-faced, great white shark! 
 I don't know where she got that. (back to Joan) Will you please keep your voice down. He's very sensitive to what people say. 
 'Sensitive'? Have you lost all your beads?! This man had you kidnapped and kept in a drugged stupor for the last three weeks, and now he's... 
 Stepping into the doorway, holding Struge in a painful armlock: 
 Alright, what the hell's going on in here? RED Who's this? 
 That's the dog trainer. RED I thought he was working for us. 
 Well there seems to be a little grey area there, Red. RED (to Harry) Come over here, I want to talk to you. Harry releases Sturge and moves over to Layls, offering his hand and trying to maintain his gruff manner: 
 Mr. Layls... 
 Will you listen to me! This man is not only a bastard, he's a scummy, soul-less little thug and a criminal! 
 Are you implying that I have defective judgement in men, Joanie? 
 I just  want a say, that though you're  someone in a category I admire,  you've gone to some lengths  on this thing here, that I don't  entirely agree with... 
 Okay.   No problem. As he seats himself in the other chair, Red reaches up and takes a glass of tea offered by Moncrief: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) But I want to go on and finish my thought on this, because... (CONTINUED) 
 RED (CONT'D) So if you intend to do that... (after a sip of tea) I might just have to have my shock troops blow your brains out. 
 Oh, uh huh. 
 And furthermore, this 'sensitive' man's lawyer more than implied they were willing to put your feet, as well as probably mine, into a block of cement! 
 Oh that's just all talk... (calling over to Moncrief) Would somebody please get me my clothes! 
 (nodding his head) Uhm-hmm. 
 
 Harry, I can't believe you're sitting there nodding your head and having a tea party with these crooks! 
 I'm not nodding my head, honey, I'm just listening to the man. 
 as Harry, in the b.g., resumes his exchange with Red: 
 Who is this guy, anyway? Isn't he a little sleazy, Joanie, a bit infra dig? I mean Lewie's a bit of a stiff, but... 
 You're going to talk to me about sleaze, when you consorted with some maniac tree surgeon, who was flicking his tongue out at me like some rutting iguana, and groping at his naturalia at three in the morning?! 
 Oh, 'him.' 
 Oh 'him'?!   He came at me with an ax! 
 Well, he's very immature. 
 JOAN'S POV 
 As Moncrief steps up to her, offering a glass of tea: 
 Miss Spruance, would you care for a... 
 No, thank you. She moves past him, striding over to Harry and Red: 
 JOAN (CONT'D) Excuse me! 
 JOAN    (CONT'D) I don't know what    kind of spell you've cast on my    sister, but it doesn't extend to    me... 
 Standing above Layls: 
 JOAN (CONT'D) In fact, I've been to the police and I intend to press charges against you... 
 Honey, he's not supposed to get excited. 
 (overlapping him) ... Not only for having my apartment burglarized but for breaking into Andy's house, as well as hiring someone to frighten, harass and intimidate me! 
 You know, maybe you better not... 
 No, Dammit! 
 HARRY                             JOAN He's got a bad neck...            I'm not afraid of these snakes!! 
 (to Red) Now wait a minute... 
 (overlapping) I'm not here to beg your good opinion... 
 (V.O.) Doctor Park is trying to reach you. RED Tell him to hold on. (then, to Joan) First, you assume far more interest in you on my part than exists. I had nothing whatsoever to do with your supposed misfortunes... 
 (very emphatic) I don't believe you! RED And as regards Andy's house, I'd have no need to break into Andy's house, because I own Andy's house. 
 I don't care whose house you own, you're nothing but a slimy, mean-                      * minded little hood! 
 
 Will you please stop interfering in my personal life, Joanie. 
 Andy, you know something? 
 JOAN (CONT'D) The kind of woman you are is a danger to the kind of woman I am, so the next time you and your boyfriend have a domestic spat, don't call me! 
 Well if you're going to take this kind of grumpy attitude, I certainly won't. 
 Harry, where are my clothes? 
 Uh... 
 HARRY                            PARK (V.O.) I think they must be              I'm over at Poly- outside.                          Medical. How soon can you get over here? 
 Will you go get them                      RED (V.O.) please, I'd like to leave.        Wait a minute, don't rush me on this, Monroe. Harry moves around Red and steps up to Joan: 
 HARRY                             PARK (V.O.) Can I just talk to you for        I'm not rushing you, one minute first?                 but we don't have the luxury of waiting too JOAN                      long either. There's nothing for you to say, Harry, it's very clear               RED (V.O.) what your priorities are.         Well, I want a hell of a lot more information HARRY                     before you start Honey, all I've been trying       carving me up. to do, from day one, is look out for you...                       PARK (V.O.) (pauses)                     I can tell you this Don't you believe that?           much, Red, I've taken a look at it and I'm very excited. 
 No, I don't. RED Will you people be quiet, I can't hear this. (to the beeper) Go ahead. 
 (V.O.) It's as sound a muscular bag as I've ever seen and the pericordium is a gorgeous color. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) I don't have any specific data, but the host was around 35 and she was obviously very healthy. RED Godammit, Monroe! 
 RED (CONT'D) I told you I don't want a woman's heart! 
 (V.O.) Don't worry, it's not going to change you in any way. RED How do you know?!   You don't know that! 
 (V.O.) Look, let's just get it done. As Red paces toward the open bathroom door, Harry and Joan resume their discord: 
 HARRY                             PARK (V.O.) In other words, you don't         And later if you find trust me.                         you're unsatisfied with it, we can always get you another one. 
 Would you please get me my clothes. Moncrief steps in beside Joan: 
 I wanted to tell you a moment ago, that I was privileged to see you at the Bowl on the Fourth of July... 
 So what.   I'm talking to this lady... 
 
 ROOM - NIGHT ON Moncrief, Joan and Harry. 
 And I was especially moved by your rendition of 'The Battle Hymn of The...' Harry suddenly grabs Moncrief roughly by the arm: 
 Never mind that shit.   Tell her... He shakes him, causing him to spill his iced tea onto the front of his jacket: 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Did I spend your money! Did I give you any services for it. Tell this woman the truth, you son of a bitch! Harry releases him and under the following, Moncrief takes out a handkerchief and dabs at his jacket: 
 Well, shall we start with the fact that you're a married man... (looking at Harry) ... and then go on from there? 
 Wait a minute, honey... As she disappears inside, Red re-enters, and covering the speaker vents on the beeper, strides over to Moncrief: 
 Honey,   there's a simple explanation to all   of this, if you want me to go into   it... I was trying to tell you at   dinner... She disappears into an intersecting hallway. 
 HARRY (CONT'D) Will you just stop for one minute and let me talk to you... It's very complicated... 
 ANDY (CONT'D) (coming over to him) Well Red, better a woman than dead, don't you think? She reaches down and proprietarily brushes the scarf from his shoulders. 
 So let's just go there, sweetheart, and have him sew the darn thing in. 
 Look, you know, you live a life, honey, you make some mistakes. You get married for maybe mutual benefits, or business considerations weighing on you at the time, and because you don't think the right person is ever going to come along. 
 I would never have knowingly become involved with a married man. 
 I know that, that's why I was trying to come out and tell you... 
 Please, I don't want to discuss it anymore. (after a brief silence) I bet you never read Dante, either. 
 Now there you're 75 percent wrong. 
 I mean, I can't believe it, that you'd lie to me about this... 
 Okay, I lied. Didn't you ever tell a lie? If not let me kiss your high heel. 
 I'm going in the house. (CONTINUED) 
 Wait. Can I call you tomorrow, just to see how you're feeling? Or how things are going? 
 I have a dress rehearsal tomorrow and a concert on Friday. That's all I care about right now. She reaches to the door handle, then very emotionally: 
 JOAN (CONT'D) And I don't want to see you anymore. 
 Don't say that, please. I'm asking you to just give me the chance to clear up all these things in my life, because... 
 No. I didn't extricate myself from the infidelities of one man, just to fall into the arms of the prince of prevaricators... 
 Well, I may be all kinds of a son of a bitch, and the prince of whatever, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't, when it comes down to it, stand up and take the bullet for you. She finally looks over at him, her eyes brimming with tears: 
 That's not what I observed, Harry. 
 HARRY'S POV 
 POV - DUKE comes out the door and lopes across the driveway toward the Mercedes. 
 (O.S.) Harry, I want my dog. 
 Hey, Lee, how are you. (moves toward him) I just this minute got back from Vegas. I was dealing a couple of dogs to Paul Anka. (shakes his hand) I was about to give you a call. 
 Don't embarrass us both, man. Just give me the dog back, and let's preserve the friendship. 
 Lee, I'm in the neighborhood of getting my hands on the money. I'm about to close a business deal with Vark Zulethian of Zulethian Carpets, you've probably heard of him... 
 Come on, I know these dodges backwards and forwards. I need the dog. He's up for a TV series. They stop beside the van. Harry glances at the printing on the side panel: Lee MacGreevy - Trainer of "Duke," - The World's Smartest Dog. 
 LEE (O.S.) (CONT'D) (over the above) I don't even want the ten thousand now, compared to what he might appreciate to. 
 
 Look, our agreement was I could buy the dog back. He's  the only thing I got to prove to people what I can do, and all I'm asking you, Lee, is... (CONTINUED) 
 Don't make me have to get legal with you, Harry. You sold me the animal, then as a personal favor, I let you borrow him, to demo to some V.I.P.. that probably don't even exist. You haven't been straight with me, man. (hands him the leash) Just go get the dog. 
 LEE (CONT'D) Get in. He ignores the command and looks at Harry: 
 Duke, geh im wagen. Duke jumps into the back of the van. Inside is a large wire travel kennel with another German shepherd inside. Lee removes the leash from Duke and gestures at the other dog: 
 Why don't you take this dog, Harry. He's green, but maybe you could do something with him. He opens the cage and clips the leash to the dog's collar. 
 No, I don't want the dog. 
 (giving him the leash) Go ahead, man. Take him. If you don't want him, pick up some change. (closing the van) Sell him for a pet. 
 Do me one favor, will you? Say 'owner' if you want to, but don't say 'trainer.' I trained that dog. 
 (claps him on the shoulder) Let me think about that, okay? He moves past him and OUT OF FRAME. 
 What do you want, Harry? 
 VITA (CONT'D) You want the Meatloaf Special? He looks up at her, unable to answer. 
 VITA (CONT'D) Chicken pot pie?... Tuna melt? No response. 
 VITA (CONT'D) Do you want anything? He finally answers, but from some place deeply felt and unrelated to the day's specials: 
 Yeah. 
 A few of us are going to grab a bite. You want to join us? 
 No, go ahead.    I'm not hungry. 
 Well, who's going to drive you home? 
 I'll call a cab. Eddy steps INTO FRAME: 
 I can take her home. 
 Good, because I don't want you to be alone. Alright? (blows her a kiss) See you tomorrow. She moves away and Joan returns her attention to the mirror, then: 
 Thank you, Eddy. 
 
 I hate living here now. (a pause)                                           * I'd like to move to a small town, where it's friendly, and everybody knows each other, and there are no bars on the windows... 
 And the milkman's a child molester. 
 Thanks, Eddy. 
 Well, it's true. It doesn't matter where you live. Shit happens. 
 Are you in a bad mood or something? 
 No. I'm not in a bad mood.   Not as bad as yours. 
 Remember when we were on tour in Japan, in '86? 
 EDDY (CONT'D) The night after we did a concert in Osaka? 
 Could you be more specific? 
 We had a few drinks in your room.                   * And a certain intimacy took place. She appears uncertain that she shares the same memory.           * 
 EDDY (CONT'D) And when I asked to see you the next                * night, you know what you said? You                  * were too tired and sleepy. 
 That was witty of me. 
 But you weren't. Because an hour later, you went into Lewie's room and you didn't come out. 
 Well, if you remember, I was in love with Lewis around that time, which I confided to you, so you did know... 
 That's not the reason. 
 Excuse me, Eddy, you just passed the turn off to my street. No response. 
 JOAN (CONT'D) Eddy. 
 I just want to drive a little, so                   * we can talk. 
 Anyway,  if I remember correctly,                   * we only  kissed. But if that led you to  believe something that hurt you in  any way, I apologize. He reaches up to adjust the rearview mirror, inadver-            * tently drawing her atttention to his hand.                       * 
 (O.S.) What happened to your hand? 
 JOAN (CONT'D) It looks like somebody bit you. 
 Somebody did. 
 Well, am I supposed to guess, or are you going to... She breaks off, suddenly aware that the teeth marks are her own: 
 Oh, Eddy. 
 JEEP - NIGHT The Jeep continues on the winding road, nearing a promontory high above the city. 
 Why did you do these things? 
 Because you deserved it. 
 I didn't deserve it. I've always thought of you and treated you as one of my closest and dearest friends... 
 I use to think very highly of you, too, but now I don't like what I see. In fact, it's been very disturbing to me, Joan. (pauses, then) Very disillusioning. To see that before you've even gotten rid of Lewie, you've started up with some other man. 
 Eddy, I want you to take me home now. 
 You know, there's so  many things about me you have no  idea of. You never ask me about my  life or what I'm thinking, because  you have no interest... 
 Yes I do. You can tell me whatever you want to, but let's go back down to... 
 Creative things, and dreams, and feelings I have, that Lewie or anyone else in your life, are not capable of... She suddenly reaches frantically to the door handle and tries to get out. He grabs hold of her arm and pulls her back into the seat: 
 EDDY (CONT'D) See? You're not genuinely interested. You're not at all sincere, Joan. 
 Eddy... 
 You present yourself like you are, but you're not... (moves his face closer to hers) Don't you think I know that, better than anybody? He takes her arm and places it around his neck. 
 What are you doing? 
 I want you to listen to me, and I                      * want you to kiss me. And this time, like you mean it... 
 Okay, what is this! What the hell are you doing with this guy! He reaches in and pulls Eddy away from Joan. 
 Harry, look out! The warning is simultaneous with an attempt by Eddy to stab him with the knife. 
 Jesus Christ... He grabs Eddy's arm and in hauling him out of the car, rips loose the sleeve of Eddy's shirt. 
 She pulls open the door and addressing the dog inside, points toward Harry and Eddy: 
 Duke, fasse! 
 JOAN (CONT'D) Oh shit... 
 You bastards!! The search beam of the COPTER spotlights Joan. She is bent over, picking up sticks and stones and as if routing a deadly enemy, she begins hurling them, as well as a series of invectives, at the lights of the city below, her words barely audible over the sound of the ROTORS. The beam sweeps from her, to pick up Harry and Eddy and an AMPLIFIED, God-like voice comes from above: 
 (from above) What are you people doing down there? 
 Are you crazy?! What are you doing, running around with a guy like this!! 
 You maniacs!!    You liars!!   You shits!! (CONTINUED) 
 What are you yelling at me for?! This son of a bitch is probably the Westside Slasher! 
 It looks like a domestic quarrel. Let's get a car up here quick. 
 I'm finished wagging my tail and leaving little puddles on the floor...!! 
 Wait a minute, honey... 
 And smiling on command, because I don't give a damn whether any of you like me or not!!! 
 (from above) Are you alright, ma'am? 
 (yelling up at the copter) Yeah, she's alright!! I've got him!! (gesturing at Eddy) The Westside Slasher, I got him!! 
 He's not the Westside Slasher!! 
 VOICE                            JOAN (from above)                 He's a friend of mine!! Just stand where you are, buddy. 
 A friend of yours! This guy's a friend of yours?! 
 None of you are friends of mine, you fucker!! 
 (from above) Ma'am, is this guy bothering you? 
 JOAN                                HARRY Will you shut up!!                  I'm not bothering her, godammit, I love her!! Harry lets go of Eddy and leans down to pick up the knife, gesturing it at the helicopter: 
 Look, you assholes! The guy was holding a knife at her throat!! 
 (from above) Okay, put the knife down, fellow. Then to Joan again, taking a step toward her: 
 What were you doing, kissing this guy!? 
 I wasn't kissing him!! 
 (from above) Stand where you are, and put down the knife. 
 Perceiving the danger to Harry: 
 Put the knife down, Harry! (CONTINUED) 
 (to the copter) Why don't you go harass someone else!! 
 VOICE (CONT'D) (from above) We've got a bead on you, so just put it down. Terrified that they are going to shoot him, she moves over to Harry: 
 VOICE (CONT'D) (from above) Stay where you are, don't go near him. 
 (to the copter) I just saved her life, you son of bitches!! 
 Give me that thing. She grabs the knife out of his hand, throws it away, then places her arms around him, desperately pantomiming to the helicopter: 
 See? He's not hurting me! He's my friend!! (then, to Harry) This is just for their benefit. 
 (from above) Don't touch her, buddy. 
 But that's what I am, honey, your friend, that's what I wanted to tell you, and then I saw you with this guy... 
 (from above) Don't worry, lady, we've got a car on the way. 
 (up into the light) Will you please shut up and go away!! This is private! Can't you see that!? 
 I just wanted to tell you, because you don't know, how important you are to me... 
 (from above) Step away from him, ma'am. 
 And I   needed you to know this one other   thing about me, because I don't   want to withhold anything from   you anymore... 
 Oh God, I don't want to know, Harry. What is it? 
 My real name's not Harry.    It's Eugene. 
 (profoundly relieved) Oh. (saying it lovingly) 'Eugene.' I love that name. 
. 
 
 restively fanning herself with a programme, seated in an aisle seat next to Moncrief. 
 
 
 
 He returns her smile. His eyes shine and glisten with emotion and an expression of undissembled and openly childlike delight takes shape upon his face. CREDITS FINISH.   The SCREEN GOES BLACK.   The MUSIC 
. 
