 
 (O.S.) (panicky; through crackly 
) Los Angeles Tower, this is Transworld two-two Heavy, we are going down! Repeat... Engines two and three are... L.A. Tower this is MaydayI Mayday! 
 (O.S.) (through crackly radio) 2-2 Heavy, Pull upt Pull up! The RADIO NOISE is drowned out by the A CAPELLA, SOPRANO VOICE of a young Indian boy as he sings a melodic Hindi prayer. 
. 
 Hi, hello, it's uh. Look uh, you don't call me back so I don't know how to do this. If I can't... if you're not gonna return my calls then there's no way for us to communicate. So uh... '(starts to cry) 
 Casting, please hold. casting, please hold. 
 We're whores. Large looks at him. 
 ACTOR (CONT' D ) "I'm not a whore," you say. And to that I say, "If you would do this... that you would do ' this... you're a whore." 'But it pays the bills," you say; startin' to get a little pissed. And to that I say: "how do whores, how do you think a hooker justifies what she does to her non-hooker friends?" 
 (BEAT) It pays the bills. 
 (READING) "Codey, an extreme, special-ope hacker with an edge.' What the fuck is an "edge"? Can you explain "edge" to me? Is it just messy hair? 
 (BEAT) Hey, wait. Aren't you the guy who booked the retarded quarterback? 
 Lukas Fox? 
 Yeah, hey Sandy. 
 Leslie. 
 (under his breath) Fuck. 
 come on in. (to the room) Hey guys, we're only doing the first scene okay; the "I'll cut you!" scene. Thanks. 
 Good talking with you, bro. 
 (BEAT) Peace. We hold on Large as he swings his gaze to the actor on his other side aggressively running his lines to the air. 
. Large suddenly squints his eyes and clutches his neck in pain. 
 Dick head. You've got thirty-four and twenty-five seated and Taylor booked a pilot so he quit. You picked a bad night to be late. 
 
 (FRENCH ACCENT) Ten resumes just today. They come in everyday from Idaho or Florida or Milwaukee and do you know what they want even more than a guest spot on "Everybody Loves Raymond"? They want your job. This will not happen again. This will never happen again. You have two tables. You are thirty minutes late; if I ever say this again, your job will 
 (O.S.) (accented, but monotone) Waiter number fifteen, your table number twenty-three is ready. Large takes a deep breath and pushes open the door into: 
 (O.S.) 
 (THROUGH EARPIECE) Waiter ten, you forgot the order of forty-one for table one-o-one. All waiters, eighty-six tuna special. Large remains dead-pan as he crosses to a table with six young, hot Hollywood types. 
 Can I have a Kettle Cosmo with Red Bull, please. And some bread too. A- sap. 
 What do you mean you don't have bread? How could you not have bread? 
 Well you're not Vietnamese. 
 So? 
 (BEAT) Well something to chew on --fuck. Bamboo... whatever. 
 (O.S.) Waiter number twelve, flight number 121 with non-stop service to Newark International will be departing from gate D-32. 
 
 
 Holy shit! 
 Largeman, what the hell are you doin' here? 
 Fuck. 
 Puck. Sorry. 
 (BEAT) Well... welcome home- 
 Same. 
 Same. 
 Where the fuck you been, man? You're like still acting and shit, right? 
 In LA right? 
 That's cool. I hear that place is pretty tucked up, man. I got a cousin who's a writer out there. He says that place is mad crazy. Coke everywhere, parties, horny-ass bitches... 
 Who? 
 What? 
 Which cousin? 
 Terry. 
 Terry's in LA? I thought he was gettin' his GED down in Newark. 
 No bitch, he's in LA now. He's a writer. He's writin' a movie about snowboarders or some shit, X don't know. I should introduce you to him Largeman, maybe you guys could do something together. 
 So what are you doin' tonight, man? 
 You should come out with us, we're gonna head over to the Gleason's house. He's having some huge fuckin' party tonight or something. 
 Supposedly. 
 Supposedly. 
 Yeah, he lives up on the hill. We're probably gonna head over there right after we bury your mom. 
 Well I gotta shower. 
 Same. 
 All right. Well, welcome back. 
 Peace. Large heads back to his car. The crowd has dispersed. 
: A heavy woman with gobs of make-up and lots of gold. 
 1 .Well you had to call her; she never called anyone. A woman in a white tennis outfit talking to a group. 
 2 This was a woman who never smiled. An older man in glasses with cream cheese all over his lips. 
 1 Somebody ate all the lox. THE CAMERA MOVES TO: Two very Jewish older ladies simultaneously telling the same story to a group of friends. 
 1 The new thing is "Talk to the hand." 
 2 That's what they're doing. 
 1 But you got a hold it out like this. 
 2 Like you're saying... 
 1 "I don't have the time for you." 
 2 "So talk to my hand." 
 1 "He's the only one with time... 
 2 Like you're saying... 
 1 "I don't have the time for you." 
 2 "So talk to my hand." 
 1 "He's the only one with time... 
 2 "Time for the nonsense that you're giving me. Large site on a couch in the den next to his Aunt Sylvia, the singer from the funeral. Some young children play on the rug in front of them. Large stares off into space as she pets one of the children's heads and looks to Large for conversation. 
 Did you know your mother redid the hallway bathroom? Large looks over, realizing she's talking to him. 
 Since I met her she never showed an interest in anything. Then all of a sudden a month ago she wakes up and decides to redecorate a bathroom. I helped her. 
 Well I sew. I made you something. 
 It's a shirt. 
 I made short sleeves... you know, for LA. 
 Will you try it on nowt 
 Well just in case I have to fix it before you leave again and we don't see you for another nine years, I want to make sure it fits. 
 You're gonna love the material. I used the leftovers from your Mother's design. Gorgeous. 
 G 
- 
 "Well besides that tire. Lincoln, how was the show?" 
 Mmnn. 
 (BEAT) Did you see Cynthia? 
 She's on call tonight; she volunteers as an EMT for the Rescue Squad. She's doing so well in med school. 
 I have very fond memories of the two of you running around here when you were little kids like brother and sister. Silence. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D) So how are you? 
 Go see Dr. Cohen first thing tomorrow morning. Re's a neurologist in my building. I'll call him and he'll fit you in. I'm sure it's nothing to worry about. Silence. Large nods. 
 Oh? That's nice. We've been... doing a lot of work on it. 
 Actually, no. I don't know why I just said that. We haven't done anything to it. 
 (BEAT) We cleaned it for this; for this whole thing. Janice has been cleaning. 
 Yeah. That's new. Did you eat? You should eat. Aunt Sylvia put this whole thing together out there. I think there's enough food out there for... everybody. I mean, more.than everybody... there's a lot of food out there. 
 There's dessert too. 
 Cake or something. 
 I'm glad you're here. Large stops in the doorway. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D} Saying goodbye is important. I'm glad you could... fit it in. They nod at each other. Large walks out. 
 A Several people are seated amongst dozens of presents laughing. A. seven year old Large stands with his arm around a seven year old Cynthia. They both wear enormous "chicken- foot" slippers and smile from ear to ear. Large's POV: zooms into the face of the only person in the photo not smiling. This is Sarah Largeman. She stands; not yet requiring a wheelchair. He crosses to the bed and sits down. The surface sends waves ,towards the pillows throwing them off the bed, revealing it's 
 A- A LOUD RING from a PHONE on the bedside table which appears to be made out of Legos. He answers it. 
. The wind throws his hair back as Large whips through the back roads. He's going really fast. He closes his eyes, flying by a COP CAR doing eighty before he opens them again. LIGHTS FLASH behind him as he pulls over. 
 Hands on your head, please! 
 I said PUT YOUR MOTRERFUCKING HANDS 
 COP (CONT'D) Eighty-two in a twenty-five. Are you gonna tell me your late or just tired? 
 Shut the fuck up. 
 (BEAT) You could have killed some little kid or a baby deer. He saunters closer. 
 COP (CONT'D) You do have a license don't you. Large takes it. out and passes it behind him, squinting. When the COP gets it, he steps finally into the 1 ght. He's a skinny kid, maybe 23, with a baby face! 
 COP (CONT'D) Largeman? Large squints? 
 Holy shit: How you doin' man? 
 Your mom just died. 
 I mean that's why you're home. 
 (BEAT) You're a cop, Kenny?! 
 I know, I know. 
 I don't know; I couldn't think of anything better to do. And it's really cool though, man. People really listen to you. They have to. And check this shit out. He pulls his gun out of his holster to show Large. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) 
 I had to grow up now, man, I wasn't makin' shit at the fish market. No one knew who I was. I couldn't get laid. This is a much better situation for me. Speakin' of which, how did I do? 
 I mean you know... how did I do? 
 Yeah. 
 Ah fuck, man. I hear you're like some huge movie star; you played some big football player or something. I didn't nee it. 
 Fuckin' DeNiro and shit. 
 fie ' s awe some . 
 Deer Hunter. We should talk, man; I have some good ideas for movies, and you could like play me and shit. "Stories From the Force-" 
 So what are you doin' tonight? 
 Shut the fuck upf Course not. 
 (BEAT) But you got to put your helmet on, man; leading cause of death on the highway for males in our age bracket. 
 Wanna see my kid. He shows Large a picture in his wallet. 
 Everybody's got kids now, man; they're great. It's like your own "Mini-Me"; way better than my cats, 
 (RE2 PICTURE) Cute. Gold teeth? 
 Wellthiswas Halloween. He was "OL'DirtyBastard." Yeah, already likesraplike his dad. So what d'yousayyou were doin' tonight? 
 The Gleasons? 
 can you believe that kids havin' a party at that house? His brother hung himself like two weeks ago in his bedroom. 
 Cut him down myself. Seth. Did you know him? 
 He tried like three times. Finally got what he wanted. 
 (BEAT) Anyway... So okay, you get going, I'll see you over there in a bit. 
 No. But we'll be by to bust it up by two. if it's crowded we might get to wear riot gear. 
 Great seeing you, man. 
 
 (OVER PA) Pull over, the vehicle! Kenny nods his head up and down to Large like "Isn't this cool?" Large waves goodbye. Kenny floors the cop car and BLARES the SIREN with LIGHTS FLASHING as be SCREECHES away. 
 holy chit look at this guy! Everyone looks to Large at the end of the line. 
 MARK (CONT'D) Get the fuck up here, bitch! This guy does not wait for a beer! This is a movie star! This is Jersey's DeNiro and shit. Mark sloppily hugs Large. Others slap him five as Large awkwardly navigates between variations of hugs and handshakes. 
 What are you doin home? A beat as Large realizes he has to answer that question. 
 Press junket. 
 That's phat yo. Fuck yeah, Serpico and Shit... The crowd quickly moves onto other things. 
 (in a whisper) You like that? That's improvisation, bitch. You can use it. 
 You see this? 
 That was him. Dug the hole myself. 
 Nah. Ugly motherfucker though, huh? It pains Large to even try to respond to that. 
 MARK (CONT'D) You want to see the most fucked up thing? They arrive at the landing outside a door with a "New Jersey Devils" poster on it. 
 MARK (CONT`D) This is the tucked up thing. Be swings the door to the bedroom open revealing the dark bedroom of your average teenage boy. A teenage couple drunkenly makes out on the bed. The mattress has no sheets. 
 MARK (CONT'D) Check that out. Mark points to a hole in the ceiling where a ceiling fan has been ripped out. Wires dangle. The fan lies next to the bed. 
 Shut the fuck up. Who is that, O'Malley? I'll beat your aael 
 (NO IDEA) Oh, hey. 
 Mark pulls the door closed. 
 I can't tell what's more disgusting; those two hooking up in that room, or those two hooking up. 
 bargeman. They hug and pat each other on the back. 
 Yeah. You gotta come by my new place. 
 Sorry... you know... I heard. 
 That's fucked up. 
 Basically, "The Man bought my silent Velcro patent. 
 Well you knew I was an inventor right? 
 Oh well yeah... I wasn't really an inventor yet. Anyway I developed this little item that's just like Velcro but doesn't make that annoying Velcro noise. 
 A lot. 
 Nothing. They laugh. 
 Seriously. Absolutely nothing. I've never been so bored in all my life. The first month I bought a whole bunch of shit, but then that got boring. But I... nothing. 
 I'm not really motivated to do much at all. It's kind of funny, I guess I had kind of planned on my whole life being about struggling to get money. But now that I've got more than I ever dreamed, I'm really not sure what to do with myself. I stare at walls a lot. 
 Can you believe that shit, Large? This guy has one idea and he's a trillionaire. I got a thousand ideas, but I gotta sit around and wait for all my relatives to die. They join the group. Mark blows coke off a large golf book. Dave has a young girl on his lap. Large begins to notice that the girls in the room, although quite attractive, are pretty young; 17-19. As he pans the room, he lock eyes with a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG GIRL. They play chicken briefly to see who will break the stare first. Large does and looks to his right where someone has just passed him a joint- He hits it and passes it on. 
 Here, bro. He passes Large the golf book. 
 Really? But you're like a movie star and shit. 
 Well then here. Eat this. Jesse opens his palm to reveal a tiny hit of E with a SMILEY FACE on it. 
 JESSE (CONT'D) Welcome home. 
 Should we play a game? 
 other than golf? They laugh. 
 They're all legal. I think. He smiles a toothy grin. KELLY, a young hot girl with a raspy voice takes control. 
 The girl has a point. 
 Okay, how 'bout this. He holds up a bottle of Tequila with a ribbon around !.to neck. 
 MARK (CONT'D} First let's finish Daddy's golf tequila. Then we can use this bottle. The group loves this idea- As they laugh and party the CAIa.ERA FINDS ITS WAY to Large's face as he feels the weed and the beginning of his trip. His eyes and face navigate the ha3mnv start. 
 Largeman, this is Dana. Large looks over to the sexy young girl whom he locked eyes with before. She smiles at him. Awkwardness fills the room. 
 Hi. 
 This is gonna be a good night. Everything SPEEDS-UP and SLOWS DOWN. A barrage of images: people hooking up, girls kissing girls, guys feeling girls up, joints being passed, one girl crying, Mark showing off his golf swing, Large trying to take deep breaths, Jesse and Dave hugging, two-figures moving quickly under a blanket. Kenny in full riot gear letting people take turns hitting him in his helmet. FASTER : hands gripping each other, a nose on a neck, hands gripping a waist. Ecu s Largos face as his eyes swim in their eocketo s end the corners of his mouth lift with the idea of a smile.. 
. A BLARING LIGHT comes out of the darkness. Morning sun streams through a window revealing Large's face, full frame, eyes still closed. Across his forehead in thick black marker the word "BALLS" is written. His eyes open wide. He has no idea where he is. His eyeballs swing left, then right. As Large site up THE CAMERA pulls back to reveal we are 
 it's good isn't it. No one responds, so Tim nods to be nice. 
 CAROL (CONT'D) i always try to save a couple of marshmallows for the very end, but I can never make it. 
 Three years. But I've only been a knight for two. You have to pay your dues. I worked in the stables and helped in the kitchen. 
 When I started he was making the coleslaw. It hasn't been the same since you got knighted. 
 I really just stirred it. 
 Don't be modest. Mr. Modesty won the joust last night. 
 It's not that big a deal, it's fixed. 
 He got the shit kicked out of him. 
 No he didn't. 
 How do you know? He got the shit kicked out of him by Tyrell Freedmen. 
 I fucked him up too. 
 He knocked your teeth out. 
 He said I bit off him 'cause I got the same Jordans. 
 What? 
 Who? 
 Tyrell said I bit off him 'cause I got the same Jordans he did. But his were the red ones and mine were all white. 
 Yours were red too by the time he was done with you. Everybody laughs but Tim. 
 MARK (CONT'D) Air bloody tooth. 
 (BEAT) So what are those, like fake teeth you got now? 
 He only chipped one tooth. So what are you up to now, Mark, digging graves? Silence. A SPOON CLANKS on a plate. 
 Mark's getting into real estate. Silence. Mark FLICKS open his Zippo lighter and lights a cigarette. 
 CAROL (CONT'D) Tim can speak Klingon. 
 No, I can't. 
 Yes, you can. 
 What the fuck is Klingon? 
 Yup. He can talk in their language. 
 She's kidding. 
 No, I'm not. He's being shy. Are you being shy? 
 Don't be shy, Tim. 
 It's just made up. The guy who plays the wizard at work is a Trekky. I don't really... 
 He's being shy. Say what you said to me last night. 
 No. 
 Yeah, Tim. Say what you said to her last night. Silence. Everyone stares at Tim. 
 I gotta get going anyway. 
 
 Kuntar peteeky maya. Al fook soo. They all stare at him. Then burst out laughing. 
 You've got to be kidding me. 
 It means, "I like to mate after battle." 
 
 Yes. 
 No, that wasn't the one I said. This one means "kill Kirk" and also 'hallelujah" depending on the context. 
 You must have gotten it confused with "Pleej artulyah. Hagtooth pleep." Theylaugh. 
 That was good, honey. 
 You know what that means, Tim? 
 No I don't know the whole language, I just... 
 well I do. It means get the fuck out of my house before I chop your fuckin' head off. Silence. Large stares at Mark in disbelief, then starts to LAUGH. They all start to join him except Mark. They stop laughing. 
 Mark, he's a knight. 
 He's just a fast-food knight. 
 I should get going anyway. He gets up to leave. But his sword gets caught between his chair and the table. They all watch as he fumbles to undo himself. He's like John Ritter at his finest. Large and Mark just laugh. 
 TIM (CONT'D) Thanks for the cereal. By the way, it says "balls" on your face. Carol follows Tim out. Large slides to the microwave door's reflection. 
 My Mom did it. 
 What's this? She finds a long, thin cigarette with lipstick on it in the ashtray and lights it. 
 What the fuck is that shit, Mom? 
 Where's this? Gimme a hit of that. 
 Don't bring those fucking people here anymore, Mom. Or I'm leaving. I'm serious. No Medieval Times people in this house. He passes the bong to his Mom. She smokes it, then sits down, forcing them both to slide over. Several cats surround her_ 
 MARK (CONT`D) I'm declaring it. Now. It's declared, now. Thank you. No more. 
 Did you tell Large about the tapes? 
 No, Ma. I'm not doin' the stupid tapes. 
 Real estate tapes. You can make up to a hundred thousand your first year. You should have seen the boat this one Oriental had. 
 Mom, shut-up about those fucking tapes. It's a scam. 
 It's not a scam. They show you how to do it. It's not hard, honey. Then I could retire and we could have our own game show. Carol and Large share a laugh. 
 In China. 
 In China is right. 
 It's bullshit. You were just all baked,out and you thought it would be a good idea. 
 Well I'm doin' it. I'm savin' up for those tapes. 'Cause I know what you could be if you just applied yourself. 
 I do apply myself, Mom; everyday, I work my ass off burying dead people, okay? I'm only twenty-six, I'm not in any rush. What's your rush for? Just let me be, all right? I don't rush you. 
 Well then I'm gonna do them then. 
 Fine. Do'em. 
 I will and then I won't let you come on my yacht. Large, you're welcome anytime, but leave your friend behind. Large LAUGHS. She checks her watch. 
 CAROL (CONT'D) Shit, I gotta go to my meeting. Okay. She stands up and then leans over and kisses Mark on the top of his head. 
 CAROL (CONT'D) Okay. Love you. Okay, bye Large good to see you. 
 Don't sit in here all day you guys; I took the batteries outta that carbon monoxide detector 'cause it was beeping all night. She slams the front door. 
 She drives me crazy. She's gets all fried out and makes me feel like I gotta impress her all the fucking time. And you know what? I'm okay with being unimpressive; I sleep better. Large site forward abruptly. 
 
 (SLIGHT ACCENT) okay, Andrew. I'm going to need you to fill out this paperwork for me, and we'll call you when we're ready for you. 
 Hi Mrs. Lubin. 
 MRS. LUBIN Oh, hello there. 
 Just have a seat and we'll be with you soon. 
 MRS. LUBIN Thank you. She site. Large turns back to his paperwork. He fills out a line before he notices the "seeing-eye-dog" has wandered over to him. Large looks at him. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) (under his breath) Get off. Off. The dog thrusts away. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) 
 LARGE (CONT'D) Got any suggestions? 
 Kick his balls. 
 MRS- LUSTN Ready for me? 
 
) Not yet Mrs. Lubin. The dog humps away. The girl comes over and sits one seat away from Large. 
 GIRL (CONT'D) 
 It's the only way to teach them. I have three Dobermans. If I didn't kick them in the balls regularly I'd never get anything done. 
 Not yet, here comes the lipstick. They sit and watch him go. 
 GIRL (CONT'D) Oh, he's gonna be sore tomorrow. WIDE SIDE ANGLE ON: the whole waiting room. Everything still but the dog's thrusting pelvis. 
 Mrs. Lubin? 
 MRS. LUBIN Yes. 
 We're ready for you. 
 MRS. LUBIN Okay. C'mon Arthur. Arthur immediately responds to her voice and returns to her side to lead her into the office. 
 LARGE (CON2''D) Thanks for your help. Or at least your good intentions. 
 I recognize you. 
 No, not from high school, from TV. Didn't you play the retarded quarterback. 
 Are you really retarded? He stares at her. 
 That's cool. Great job, man. You were- I mean I thought you were really retarded. You were just as good as that corky kid and he's really retarded. I mean if there's some kind of like retarded Emmy you could win. You'd kick Corky's ass. 
 Oh, okay. Right on. My cousin's an actor. Jake Ryan Winters. I doubt you'd know him. He was on "Sheena" once as some gnome or something. I think that's great though. 
 Oh that last scene where you make that speech to the whole stadium and your Dad gives you the thumbs up; that was - it was emotional. I mean I didn't cry, but I think my Dad did. 
 So are you doing anything else? 
 Any other retarded roles? I'm sure you could definitely get more of those. 
 I can't believe you're not really retarded. Jake's not a very good actor. I mean on "Sheens" you couldn't really tell 'cause he was in a hairy gnome suit, but he used to put on these really low-budge renditions of Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals in our attic when we were kids and they were awful. It sucks 'cause there isn't a whole lotta work for little people, you know? Anyway sorry I talk too much, fill out your forms. Large just stares at her. She's funny. 
 "The Shins." You know them? 
 Oh are you kidding me? You gotta here this one song, it'll change your life I promise you. Oh but you have to fill out your forms. Conundrum. 
 (BEAT) Well do it while you listen to 
 So what are you doing here? 
 Waiting for a friend. You? 
 Fuck, that was nosey, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be nosey. That was so nosey. 
 Cool. 
 Andrew Largeman? 
 We're ready for you. 
 LARGE (CON' ' D ) It was nice meeting you. 
 You didn't. I'm Sam. 
 
 Don't worry Sam, we'll get to you next. Large turns to Sam. She looks away. 
 Mr. Andrew Largeman. 
 There's absolutely nothing wrong with you. Large stares. 
 I'm just kidding, how would I know that? 
 I'm Doctor Cohen. What can we do for you today, Andrew? 
 You're Gideon's kid. I didn't even put the two together. 
 I'm sorry about you're Mother. 
 I must have missed you at Shiva last night. 
 So how long have these headaches been going on? 
 (looking at chart) How long have you been on the Lithium? 
 And what about Paxil, Zoloft, Celexa, Depakote; did any of that ever help you? 
 Well it'll leave your body pretty fast. I'll write you a prescription. 
 Have you spoken to your psychiatrist about that? 
 Well look, I'll examine you and give you a Catscan just so you won't worry that it's anything serious. But to be honest, I think the headaches are something else. Our bodies do very funny things when they're consumed with stress and anxiety. Things you'd never expect. I found my ex-best friend's cuff links in my wife's puree and I couldn't get an erection for a year and a half. 
 (BEAT) For example. 
 Well with all the Lithium he's had you on it's amazing you can even hear me right now_ 
 First of all, I do think you need to find a psychiatrist that isn't your father. That just's something that should have been remedied years ago. He knows better. Secondly, I'm not in a position to comment on whether or not you should stay on the meds or not; I don't know your story. But my opinion, since you're paying for it, is that those drugs may help as a means to an end. But if you're not In any sort of therapy, sooner or later what's ever going on in your mind will find a way to peek it's little head out of the water. Just something to think about. 
 AN OVERHEAD SHOT OF: Large staring at the wall as he lies on a white slab covered from the waist down by a white towel. AN OLD FEMALE NURSE straps him to the slab ignoring the OBSCENE WORDS and DRAWINGS in black marker that cover his chest. THE CAMERA CRANES DOWN to reveal Large and the slab being sucked.into the Catscan tunnel. 
 Charging. I'm a robot. 
 What do you consider a lot? 
 People call me lots of things. 
 I could say "no", but how will you know I'm not lying. 
 You can do that? 
 Who's bike is this? 
 This is the point where you ask me if I'd like a ride home? 
 Yup. 
 Fine, but I ' m not getting in that sidecar, 
 Sidecars are for bitches. Anyone who gets in that thing is automatically your bitch. Thus, I will ride on the back. She climbs on the back behind him. 
 I thought my boyfriend was gonna pick me up on his bike, so I brought it... But then he couldn't so... 
 No, its a Ninja. Way faster than this thing. 
 You can use it on a motorcycle. Anyway, how's your head? 
 Cool. Make a right here. They stop at a light. 
 Can you elaborate on "doing anything"? 
 Wow. well that's pretty damn random of ya, Andrew. 
 'Nice to meet you. May I use you?' That's the Hollywood in ya I guess. 
 (BEAT) I'll tell you what. We'll have like a signal. When you pull on your ear that's the code and then I'll say,, "Well I've got to get her home now." And then we'll go. She mulls it over. 
 Can we have code names too? 
 okay. But don't try and like kidnap me or anything, because my step-uncle's a bounty hunter and I could have you tracked and killed. 
 'Kay ready? He unleashes the arrow into the air and the three of them scramble around in terror trying to avoid wherever it will land. It plunges into the earth three feet from Sam's foot. Frozen, she yanks on her ear; hard. 
 
 (YES) No. But I lied about my boyfriend driving a t.inja. 
 No, I don't have a boyfriend. 
 (BEAT) He might drive a bike; wherever he is. 
 okay so sometimes I lie. I'm weird, man. About random stuff too; and I don't even know why I do it. It's like a tick. I swear, sometimes I hear myself say something and then I think: "Wow, that's not even remotely true. 
 Well, I always feel bad and admit them when they're lies. 
 (BEAT) Can you trust that? 
 Down, Kevin! Mom! Kick their balls! Kick their balls! Anthrax, heel! Mom! Sam tries slapping them on their backs. OLIVIA, Sam's mother, comes rushing in clutching a hamster with a bloody nose. 
 Everybody downl Who wants to eat? Do you want to eat? Well then get the fuck off him! Kevin! Steven! 
 OLIVIA (CONT' D) I'm so sorry, we just don't have the time to train' em. Who has time to train'em? When they were puppies it was cute, but now it's like having a herd of Clydesdales. It's just too much. 
 Mom, this is .Andrew... 
 Welcome, welcome. The place is a wreck, I'm so sorry. You look very familiar. 
 He's the retarded quarterback. 
 Shut up ! Oh my God ! You are the retarded quarterback. You were so good on that show. Now I'm really ashamed. Look at this place. And I'm wearing sweat pants. (to Sam, through her teeth, while nodding at 
 Oh, tell me, what's that Alan Thicke like? I've heard he's a cocky son of a bitch. 
 Oh. Well, welcome, welcome. Samantha I told you to take the wheel out of the hamster cage. She holds up a dead hamster. 
 I forgot, Mom. 
 Well you forgot and now Jelly's dead. Luckily I got peanut Butter out in time. 
 OLIVIA (CONT'D) It was so nice to meet you... Andrew right? 
 Samantha put the clothes in the dryer and bury Jelly. She kisses Sam on the cheek and then she's gone. They stand there a moment to catch their breath. Then they both start laughing. 
 Come on in. They walk into the LIVING ROOM. 
 So this is it. 
 No it's not. You don't have to say that just 'cause you can't think of anything else to say. 
 Yeah, well we never got around to taking it down, so when it got to be fall again we just figured we might as well leave it. Are you freaked out? You're totally freaked out aren't you? 
 Wanna see my room? 
 Titembay, this is my friend, Andrew. Andrew this is my brother, Titembay. 
 T I T 
 (SLIGHT ACCENT) Nice to meet you. I'm sorry about Jelly. 
 Oh, its okay. 
 I saved some mac and cheese for you. It's in the f ridge. 
 Thanks. 
 Anyway, I'm late for class, it was nice meeting you. 
 This is it. She puts on a CD, (the song: "I'm Doing Fine" by Colin Hay). 
 SAM (CONT'D) Nothing fancy, but... 
 Yeah, it's weird, huh? You're so freaked out right now, you're like running for the door. You can go, don't feel bad. 
 What? 
 (BEAT) Okay? 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah, he's my brother. 
 Well kind of. My mom adopted him years ago from Sally Strothers. one of those: For the cost of a cup of coffee a day" kind of things. where she's like, "How can you sit there and not help the children?" And we just couldn't. We couldn't sit there and not help those children. So we sent him letters and pictures for years and then I got really into ice skating and we kind of forgot about'em. Then one day the phone rang and it was Titembay and he was at the dry cleaners around the corner and he said that he was going to school at Rutgers and living in the dorms, but since he was used to living with his tribe he'd much rather live with his family. 
 Yeah and he's been here ever since. He's an amazing guy, you gotta hear some of his stories. I mean this guy struggled through so much because he wanted to learn. I think of what he's accomplished and I just feel so lazy. He's studying criminal justice at Rutgers right now and when he was a baby he was one of those kids with flies all over his face. 
 That, my friend, is a true story. I'm not that good- A pause. Sam sits on the bed. THE AWESOKE MUSIC PLAYS. She breaks the moment by pulling a small tattered piece of satin fabric off the bed. 
 SAM (CO13T'D) This is Tickle. Large sits down next to her. 
 Tickle is my favorite thing in the whole world. It's all that's left of Nannie... my blanket. 
 Yeah. 
 
 What? 
 Wow, so you're like really Jewish? Large laughs. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Yeah, you are aren't you? 
 I don't really believe in God. 
 Oh, I believe in Tickle_ They laugh. A nice moment. They hold eye contact. THE AWESOME 
. 
 SAM (CONT'D) We're not gonna like make out or anything. 
 I'm sorry, I just totally ruined the moment didn't I? 
 I just mean we're not gonna like make out. 
 I didn't mean to put that out there, that was lame. BLAAAAHRH. That was so dumb. You know what I do when I'm feeling completely unoriginal? She stands up and does really weird gestures with her hands. 
 SAM (CONT'D) 
 SAM (CONT ' D) I make a noise or I do something that no one has ever done. And then I feel like... unique again; even if only for a second. 
 Not in this spot, no. You just witnessed a completely original moment in history. It's refreshing. You try one. 
 Come on. 
 Come on. What are you shy? This is your chance to do something that has never, ever been done before and will never be copied throughout human existence. If nothing else, you'll be remembered as the only person who ever did this. He stares at her. She's not gonna let up. Large lifts his index finger in the air and twirlsa it. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) How was that? 
 Oh, I've done that one before. She bursts out laughing. He smiles. (CONT ' t3 ) So I got to bury this hamster before the dogs eat him. You warms help? 
 Yeah. 
 I know. They stand in silence. 
 SAM (CONT'D) It's not that we're bad pet owners or anything, it's just that we've had so many of them over the years. 
 (BEAT) Besides some of these are fish. 
 (BEAT) Not to say fish deserve less than other animals, but moat people just flush them, and we just don't believe in that. I mean the idea of flushing something that had life in it... it just makes me sad, you know? 
 (BEAT) Anyway, I'm gonna put Jelly right here next to "Goliath", the Rotweiler Titembay backed over during his driving exam. She kneels down and begins to dig with a small shovel left nearby. Large sits down next to her and watches her dig. A brisk wind makes him hug his knees in for warmth. 
 SAM (CONT'D) What are you thinking about? 
 Yes. 
 No. A second ago before I asked. 
 What, dates? 
 Oh. Who else died? 
 (BEAT) Yeah, I uh... I haven't even really told you that yet, but uh... yeah my Mom just died. Sam stops digging and stares at him. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) God, it's weird to say that out loud: 'My Mom died". And uh... eo that's why I'm home... now. 
 
 (BEAT) And here I am putting you through another one. I mean not that Jelly's even comes close to your Mom's. .. Although we loved, Jelly-- But still... I'm so sorry. I didn't know. 
 How did she die? Large thinks about that. 
 SAM (CONT ' D) I'm sorry, I'm so nosey. Forget I asked, I'm sorry. I just need to shut--up sometimes. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) My Mom was a paraplegic; she had uh... she was in a wheelchair. She was uh... taking a bath and then I guess she slipped or something. That's what they say. I don't know. But needless to say, she drowned. And so... that's how she died. Sam is speechless. Tears well in her eyes. 
 When? 
 Oh my God. Tears roll down her face. 
 I don't know, I'm sorry, I'm not usually like this. It's just so sad. It's so tragic. Isn't it? It is. It's like real life tragedy or something. 
 What should we do? 
 We usually say something. 
 its not funny. Jelly you were a great pet. Tears roll down her face. 
 SAM (CONT'O) I'm so, so sorry I forgot to take the wheel out of the cage. I'm so sorry about that. 
 (BEAT) Goodbye. I hope that you liked me. Tears stream down her face as she shovels dirt onto the tiny shoe box. THE PATTER of the SOIL HITTING the BOX is the only sound we hear as: THE CAMERA CRANES UP above them to a bird's-eye perspective settling on a final frame that looks down on the whole backyard: the above ground pool, the pet cemetery and in the bottom right corner, Sam burying as Large watches. 
 Avi wants his Bar Mitzvah theme to be musicals. As in Broadway musicals. Can you believe that? Paul's kid's theme was the Meta; I got to do the Elora with Mookie Wilson. Miriam and I were at one last weekend at the Pierre; whole thing was like a winter wonderland... live penguins wearing yalmulkas. Now me, I got to lay out ten grand alone for some asshole to build a barricade of French garbage across the boccie lanes at my tennis club. THE CAMERA PICKS UP LARGE holding a plate of food: as he approaches Cynthia. She sits alone with a big photo album on her lap. 
 (BEAT) I was just thinking you spend you're whole life lusting for anything you don't have. You stress over money and your career, you set your clocks back, you exercise, you wait in line, you paint your house, get depressed, feel better, buy things, take your clothes to the dry cleaner, set your clocks forward and spend your whole life waiting for happiness to arrive in the mail. Then you die and people are really sad, they cry really hard... 
 (BEAT) and then they go eat lunch. Hetakes a bite of his bagel. 
 Oh please be a little more interesting than that. 
 No. Me? 
 (BEAT) She didn't like being alive. She got what she wanted. This should be a party. Instead we're supposed to mope. About what? She never did anything. 
 She made you. 
 What, you didn't think people would come? 
 No. Right now I'm alive, so I think about living. 
 So where do I fall into that? 
 Oh you think so? 
 you're way more talkative than I remember. 
 What about mine? 
 Why do you say that? 
 Are you implying that that's why I'm going to med school or something? 
 It's said we spend ninety-five percent of our lives trying to look good. 
 How about sucking it up and really having it out with your Dad? That would be a tremendous step towards not needing to look good. 
 He's one of the most caring people I've ever met. 
 I bet my Mom a dollar you were coming home with a message. I said after nine years, he's definitely coming home with a message. 
 (BEAT) Dad? After shutting the door behind himself he' crosses to the dresser and lifts one perfume bottle out from a dozen. He smells the nozzle then brings the bottle with him as he edges towards... 
 (O.S.) Hi. Large jumps around and puts his hand to his chest. 
 Just wake up? 
 Sleep all right? 
 Mmmm. 
 (BEAT) I haven't even really been in here for a while. I've been using the one in the hall. Shower pressures awful in there though. It's by no means as good a bathroom as this one is. This one is- well we redid all this. Its uh... (beat, catching himself) This is hard. 
 Janice will make you some lunch. 
 Well I guess it's breakfast for you. What time is it? 
 LARGE (CONT'D) Look, I wanted to ask you... I mean if you don't want to talk about this its perfectly fine, but I'm just... 
 No I can. I know. I figured you would want to... 
 I knew that you would. Silence. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D) Occasionally she would hum.., your Mother. Always the same tune and I never knew what the song was. I don't even know if it was a song or if she just made it up - It's funny because it always struck me as so out of character for her and every time she did it... I just always liked it. But I never told her I could hear her because I knew if I ever did she would stop. 
 (BEAT) She took a bath every night. And she was always very quiet. 
 (BEAT) so anyway, then usually she would call me when she was done, so I could come and help her out. But this time, that night... she never called. And I just figured she was taking a longer bath or something, but when I called out to her, she didn't answer. So then I uh... When I came in, she was there. 
 No. I didn't hear anything. The TV was on pretty loud. I always watch the weather report before I go to sleep. 
 What? 
 I would have too, but no. Nothing. (off Large's look) What? 
 What ? 
- 
 What? No. 
 Its not that. 
 No. Because they know she drowned, Andrew. 
 No. 
 No. Yee! 
 I know! Do you think I don't know?! 
 Shut-up! .lust shut your fucking mouth. Large is taken aback. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D) 
 (FIGHTING TEARS) If nothing else will you please just leave, her alone. She's gone. That's it. That's all you get. She died. We will never see her again. She tried very hard, but she just couldn't find it. She could never find it. And I think - I know that she's found it now. I know that. And I know there's a certain amount of guilt that you must feel for the way things unfolded, but it's too late now. 
 You want to make her crazy. Why? Does that make it easier for you? Tears stream down Gideon's face, He sits down on the toilet and cries. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D) It's like you want to torture yourself or something! Why would you want to think that? That that happened. Why would you ever want to think that? Large moves closer to his father who SOBS with his head in his lap and his arms over his head. It takes everything Large has to reach out his hand and almost touch his father's shoulder, but he doesn't make it and his hand lands on the sink next to him. 
 GIDEON (CONT'D) I just want everyone to be happy again. 
 (BEAT) I dreamt last night that I had special powers. If I squeezed my eyes shut and clinched my fiats closed tight enough, we'd all wake up in paradise. (with a laugh through 
) I was like a superhero... and that was my power. 
 How could you leave all that Lithium? I was totally gonna hit you up for some. 
 
 This fuckin' guy. I'm glad you're back, man, because this town is so messed up. Everyone's got there drug of choice like in "Brave New World". Did you ever read that book? Who wrote that? Aldous something. Aldous- 
 SLOW MOTION: LARGE STARES in shock as Mark drops a WEDDING RING into the PILE OF JEWELRY he's stealing off the corpse. 
: 
 (O.S.) .and people are just like that here, man. Huxtable3 Aldous Huxtable. That's it. 
 Andrew would you like to see Sam's ice skating tape? 
 Mom, no. 
 She was so ahead of her time. She could have gone to the Olympics. 
 No, I couldn't have. 
 Yes, you could have. Don't blame it on the epilepsy, you had a gift. Large looks to Sam, but she avoids eye contact with him- 
 Let's just show him the "Florida Stars of the Ice" opening; the Gator costume. 
 Mom. I'm asking you seriously. 
 Oh, she wants you to see it. How could you not want him to see how talented you are? 
 Were. They cross to the TV room where they find Titembay wearing rubber gloves, seated next to an open tool box, dusting the coffee table for fingerprints and referring to an open text book. White powder reveals fingerprints (and pawprints) everywhere, including the TV screen. 
 Honey what are you doing? 
 I'm dusting for prints. 
 Well do you think we could move the crime scene to the kitchen? I want to show Andrew Sam skating. 
 But someone's been pissing on my Gamecube and I'm about to close the case. 
 It wasn't me your honor. 
 The pawprints point to a canine. 
 Andrew come sit down here next to me. Large sits next to Olivia on the couch between snoring Dobermans. He places his glass of water on the table. Sam stands in the doorway. 
 I can't believe you're showing him this. 
 There she is. 
 You can tell by the hands. The alligator skates in and out of the white fingerprints on the TV screen to classical music. We begin to see that Sam is a talented skater. In a very odd way, it's beautiful. 
 Here comes the Double Axle... 
 And... land! I mean come on. Isn't she good? Large, Titembay and Olivia APPLAUD. As they do, the LIGHTS in the room SWITCH ON and OFF. Titembay CLAPS twice to turn them back on. 
 OLIVIA (CONT'D 
 
 Okay this was great, but we have to go now. 
 All right, well I just wanted to show you how talented she is. My baby. 
 Mom. 
 Okay get out of here. Wait, Give me a hug. Sam crosses to her mom. They hug. 
 OLIVIA (CONT'D) I love you so much. I'm so proud of you. 
 I love you too. Olivia kisses Sam on her forehead. 
 Okay, have a good night. She pats Sam's butt as she walks toward the door. 
 C'mon, you're giving me a hug too. 
 Mom. 
 Okay, good-night. (calling to Titembay) Night, Tim. 
 (0.5.) Rolla! 
 (BEAT) But I've been so out of it the only parts I ever get offered are to play handicapped people. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) It's not funny. 
 Oh c'mon. Don't ya see that it's a joke. If you can't laugh at yourself life's gonna seem a lot longer than you'd like. 
 I lied again. I have epilepsy. 
 I had a seizure in the law office where I work and they said their insurance would only cover me if I wore "preventative covering". 
 The helmet I was carrying. Large is silent. 
 SAM (CONT' D) Oh come on, that's funny. I'm the only person in the world wearing a helmet to work who isn't putting out fires or racing for NASCAR. But what do you do? I can't quit; their insurance is amazing. What can you do? You laugh. I'm not saying I don't cry a lot, but in between I laugh and realize how silly taking anything very seriously is. And plus, I look forward to a good cry. I just love the way it feels. 
 (A) I... tried. I thought of all the saddest things I could think of; things in movies, this image from Life magazine that haunts me... nothing came. 
 What do you mean? 
 (O. S.) Vagina! 
 LARGE "(CONT'D) Hey, guys, this is Sam. This is Mark, Dave and you met Jesse. 
 Hey. Nice to meet you. 
 Hey. 
 T'sup. 
 I'm sorry I yelled- 'vagina' just now, I didn't see you. 
 It's okay. 
 Nice. Let's get fucked up. Off Large's smile we: 
 One, two, three! Everyone jumps into the pool SCREAMING except for Large. He stands there staring at the water. 
 Hey! what are you doing? 
 Largeman, get the fuck in the pool. 
 oh, it's so warm! 
 Can you swim? 
 Dude maybe you should stay on the steps; I don't know CPR. 
 You look like a drunken beaver. They all laugh- Sam swims over to him sitting on the steps. She smiles at him. 
 Fooled me. I thought you just had a cramp. 
 (BEAT) Or two. He smiles. 
 SAM (CONT'D) (in a whisper) I can't whistle if it makes you feel any better. 
 There's a handful of normal kid things I kinda wish I'd missed. She floats on her back beside him. 
 SAM (CONT'D) So how long are you gonna stay here? 
 (with a laugh) No, I mean in Jersey. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You know that point in your life when you realize that the home you grew up in isn't really your home anymore? And all of a sudden, even though you have a place where you put your Shit, the idea of "home', is gone. 
 I still feel at home in my house. 
 (BEAT) Maybe that's all a family really is; a group of people who miss the same imaginary place. They hold eye contact. The SPLASH of a CANNONBALL swings their gaze to the others horsing around in the deep end. Sam leans her head over and rests it on his shoulder. 
 Maybe. 
 How 'bout some fucking furniture dude. 
 I bought a chair but I didn't like it. 
 Where is it? 
 Its keeping us warm. 
 Silent Velcro. Lucky motherfucker. I got an idea: loud tape, we'll make millions. 
 So why did they send you away? She takes a sip of her beer. 
 Whoa, listen to this girl. 
 You're the one who said they sent you away. 
 Why did they send you to boarding school? Large looks to Jesse and Mark. 
 (IMPERSONATING SAM) Oh are you freaked out? You're so freaked out right now. 
 
 I'm dangerous and I didn't get to go to boarding school. 
 But obviously something happened. I mean there must have been an event. 
 You're like a little detective. 
 Am I being too nosey? 
 To be honest, I never really knew either. I mean I heard stories. 
 Yeah. 
 You're gay. 
 (BEAT) I pushed her. 
 (BEAT) So there that is. 
 Shut up. 
 Fuck you. 
 Why? 
 LARGE (CONT'D) Look at her face.. That's how, she. was every single day of her life. And one day... I was nine years old and I just really hated, her for that, and I pushed her. 
 (BEAT) I mean it was innocent. I was just frustrated 'cause... 
 You couldn't make her happy. 
 Oh my God. 
 But your Mom was in the wheelchair long before you left. 
 Until now. 
 For her funeral. 
 LARGE (CONT ' D) The thing is though, when I think about it, I wasn't really abnormally angry at all. I mean it all happened so quickly; I got prescribed all these drugs for anxiety and depression and anger so I just kind of became what they are. 
 It sounds like a punishment. 
 Please don't remind me. 
 All he heard of that whole story was "left drugs in LA". 
 Fuck you. 
 Crackhead. A 19 year old girl from the pool comes around the corner 
_ 
 Mark? Where's the sauna? Mark and Jesse look at each other. They race towards her tripping drunkenly on towels and pushing each other out of the way. Sam smiles at Large. Her face glowswarm from the fire. 
 You're "in it" right now aren't you? 
 My Mom always says that when she can see I'm like working something big out she'll say, "Are you in it right now?" And I look at you, and you tell me this story and... you're... you're definitely "in it" right now. 
 Maybe that's why you've been getting those headaches. 
 Good stuff? 
 I got a little buzz. That's what I've got. What do you got? 
 (BEAT) And I like you. Sam smiles and looks away. A beat of silence. She tries to stifle her smile by pursing her lips as she turns back and looks him in the eyes. She's so cute. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) So... there's that. I got that. 
 I haven't seen you in awhile. 
 Dr. Cohen called. There's nothing wrong with you. 
 when are you thinking of leaving? 
 We need to talk. 
 what are you doing... now? 
 okay. And well talk. we owe that to each other. 
 We owe it to her. 
 Good. 
 (BEAT) I'm sorry I scared you. 
 Don't mesa with all my shit; what are you. doing? Large picks up a small brown egg wearing tiny clothes. 
 Don't you fail if it breaks? 
 Jesse cooked his. They both laugh. 
 'Cause my wife was Tanisha Lubin. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You kept her little blue skirt on. 
 He's a boy. His name's Shantel. 
 They're shorts. 
 Yeah, he's a boy, Shantel. They're shorts. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You collect "Desert Storm Trading Cards"? 
 Fuck yeah, dude. Those are collectors items. Do you have any idea how much those things will be worth some day. 
 Hell yeah. That shit's like an investment. I have lots of little investments - all over the place. I'm gonna sel3. 'em all one day and just live off 'em. 
 Which? 
 I don't know. Mint; maybe two, three. 
 Yeah. But it's too early. You don't sell'em yet. Don't you know anything about investing. I'm gonna live off that shit. That "Schwarzkopf" card is worth at least five something. And if you have the complete set it's worth like thousands. 
 Almost. The corners are bent on my "Friendly Fire" and someone stole my "Wolf Blitzer". 
 One of my Mom's Medieval Times friends, man. Drug addicts. 
 Yeah. 
 It doesn't matter if you're a rich house wife looking for your muscle relaxers or some crack head drying cars: people will do anything in this town to get their drug money. Now look, what do you gotta do today? I gotta little going away present for you. But I kinds gotta track it down. So, can you give me a ride? 
 What? 
 Say it... speak. 
 She can come, I don't care. 
 
 We're making some money for your present. Just don't look so guilty. 
 (0.S.) Andrew Largeman? They turn. KARL BENSON, greasy hair wearing a wrinkled, red "Nandi--World" vest and dirty pants stands holding a small box. 
 Oh, no. Benson. 
 Who's that? 
 Don't give him your number. Karl approaches. 
 Hey, what's up, man. 
 Holy shit, I haven't seen you since like junior year. 
 I thought you killed yourself. 
 I thought you killed yourself, that wasn't you? 
 (BEAT) No. That wasn't me? 
 Who killed themselves? 
 Just that Gleason kid. Oh, and Tina. 
 You remember Tina. She was like anorexic. She did gymnastics... Sam is horrified by this conversation. 
 I don't know. She wasn't Jewish, I didn't bury her. 
 I think sleeping pills. or that car in the garage thing. I forgot. Sam is yanking on her ear for Large to see, but he doesn't notice. 
 Hey. 
 Listen I'm gonna go grab that thing. So just hang here and I'll be back. 
 He's such a dick.' 
 He stole my little brother's last dose of Ritalin and the little fucker glued his lips closed. Weren't you on TV or something? 
 
 (DISMISSIVE) Only for awhile I'm opening my own business. Actually, I should tell you about it. I'm looking for smart people like you, Large. I should get your number. 
 (BEAT) So what 'a in the box. 
 Oh, washers. I'm s'posed to count'em. 
 (picking one out) You know these little round metal things you put between a bolt and a nut. 
 Oh, well listen, I want to talk to you both about a good opportunity. (like he's memorized it 
) For you and your loved ones. We all have dreams. I know I do. I know of an exciting opportunity that people are talking about. Mark returns holding a box with a picture of steak knives on the side. 
 Hey. We gotta get going. 
 Yeah, well let me get your number. 
 Nice meeting you. 
 Why is it always the losers who get into the pyramid schemes? Why isn't it ever some charming hot girl nagging you incessantly to buy shit? 
 Detergent or some shit. The thing I don't understand is, if it worked, why would he be working here. The guy's a freak; he pops Darvocet like it's Ritalin. 
 I'd like to return these. 
 You got a receipt. 
 Actually, no. It was a gift. She clicks her tongue. She begins filling out a form. 
 Why are you returning these? 
 They're not sharp enough. 
 They're not sharp enough? 
 No. Not for what we need them for. They couldn't cut cans. 
 You bought them to cut cans? 
 No, but in the commercial they say that if I wanted to cut cans I could. But with these knives I can't. 
 Well it comes with a sharpener. Did you try it? 
 Yeah, they're just... I don't want them; not sharp enough. She rings it into the register and counts out bills to Mark. 
 Thirty-nine, fifty-three. I hope we came in handy at Handi-World. Please come again. They exit the store and enter the mall. 
 A major loop-hole in the Handi- World return policy permits returns without receipts on items below forty dollars. 
 I hit every employee once, then wait for them to. hire. new ones. Luckily, no one works at Handi- World for very long. Except Karl Benson. 
 I don't need your money, I'm making my own right now. 
 i don't take anybody's money, Andrew. I make my own. Favors are bad news. And the only thing worse than a favor, is a favor involving money. 
 This will only take a second. 
 
 
 Hi. 
 Hey. 
 She... had an eight pound boy. 
 You delivered him? 
 Yeah. 
 Wow. 
 Yeah. 
 He's as friendly as always. The three stand in awkward silence. 
 CYNTHIA (CONT'D) Help me with this. He stands at the other end of the stretcher as she gu des him through making it. 
 CYNTHIA (CONT'D) Grab that one... over... once more... good. That side... crease the corner. . .under.. .good. Same thing on this one... Voila. 
 Where? 
 No. 
 Do you wish I was? 
 (BEAT) She loved you_ Mark exits carrying a large gym bag. 
 Got it, let's go. 
 Nice to meet you. 
 You too. Sam leaves them alone. 
 
 Yes. He backs away and mounts his bike. Cynthia turns to the stretcher and quickly uses her thumb to swipe a tear,welling in her eye. 
. They squeeze down a long dark corridor filled with graffiti. They come upon a young teen staring through a peep hole in the wall. Mark taps him on the shoulder. He turns his head and nods in recognition. When he pulls away from the peep hole, the LIGHT PROJECTS THE 
 
 
 (0.5.) I'm fucking you! I'm fucking you. Large notices another kid lip-synching along with the Greaseball. Mark spots DIEGO, a Hispanic guy, 32, wearing a bell-hop uniform and gestures him closer. 
 
 
 I've got that Nitrous tank for you, so can I get that info? 
 You're gonna have to wait a couple. The HOOKER MOANS. 
 (O.S.) Who's fuckin' you? Hub? Who's fuckin' you? The Lip-Synching Kid mouths, "You are." 
 Dude we're kind of in a rush. 
 You can wait, he's about to cunt. 
 I'm gonna fucking cum! Diegogestures, "Told you." 
 Cum on my back! The group responds in silent shock. Jaws drop, Diego grabs his hair with his fists. Just as they are about to climax, we 
 
3 
 Wow. 
 That shit was hot! I got to go drop some knowledge on that ho. 
 How do you know she's a hooker? 
 of course she's a fucking hooker. Girls that look like her do not fuck guys that look like him unless it's for money, coke or fame. 
 Julia Roberts married Lyle Lovett. 
 Who the fuck are you? 
 Oh, this is Sam and Large. 
 No offense. 
 He's the guy who needs that thing. Look I brought you the tank, so can you just tell us where to go now? 
 Tank come with balloons? 
 Am I a fucking birthday clown, Diego? No I don't have balloons. Suck it off the tap. And I need it back when you're done; the guy's holding my thirty-nine bucks. 
 All right. Hold-up. Who here just saw some titties?! They all stare. 
 DIEGO (CONT'D) Raise your hand if you just saw some titties?! They all raise their hands. (Including Sam.) 
 DIEGO (CONT'D) Thank you. So everybody needs to calm the fuck down. 
 we're in a hurry. 
 All right. You know where Kiernan's Quarry is? 
 (V . O . ) Down in Newark, right? 
 (V.0.) Yeah, its at the bottom of Hillside and Rivington. 
 DIEGO (V.O.) (CONT'D) At the bottom of the quarry there's this Junkyard run by this guy named Albert. lie's the one that tracked down the piece you're looking for. I'll call him right now and tell him to expect you. 
 Just be patient. 
 Blow? Please. If I was gonna give you coke we'd have gone to the high school football practice and we'd a been reeling five hours ago. 
 I'm not innocent. 
 
 Wow. That's the most worked up I've ever seen you. 
 He was protecting me. 
 He likes me. 
 You're my knight in shining armor. 
 I'm gonna kill that motherfucker. 
 You're dead. They play wrestle as Sam watches. 
 Wow. 
 I've heard about it. They were supposed to build a mall here I think. 
 Yeah I remember reading about it in the paper. 
 They love their mall's here man. Okay let's just find this guy and get outta here. 
 It's a surprise, you'll see. Mark walks on ahead of them down a path that winds down alongside the abyss. 
 I guess this is it. 
 Please don't tease me about my hobbies. I don't tease you about being an asshole. They stand in the pouring rain staring at the boat. Mark steps up and pounds his fist on the wooden hull. 
 (in a whisper) Mark? 
 Yeah. Are you Albert? 
 (with a smile) Yes. Come on in out of the rain. Sam and Large look at each other, then follow Mark up an A- frame ladder that sits next to the hull. 
 You guys must be freezing. Make yourselves warm by the fire. I'm just gonna go put her down. I'll be right out. The three of them huddle by the fire. They speak in quiet whispers. 
 I must say, I've been continually impressed today with how each new place you bring us manages to be weirder and weirder. 
 What do you mean, this is nice. 
 It's hardly the bottom, dude. Did you see that cliff? Albert returns with FAYE, an equally gentle and caring looking woman in her early thirties. 
 This is my wife, Faye. 
 Hi. Welcome. 
 This is Mark and Sam and Large, right? 
 
_ 
 Diego told me when he called. Please have a seat, make yourselves comfortable. 
 Its really coming down out there, huh? 
 Well in a bad storm I like to pretend this old boat's my own private "ark". Unfortunately, if this is the apocalypse, I'm not quite sure it still floats. 
 Would any of you like some tea? 
 I'd love some tea. Large and Mark look at her. 
 No.. thanks. Faye crosses to a small kitchen. They all sit there politely nodding at each other. 
 Good question. We're calling it Kiernan's Fault. And no one's really quite sure what it is because they haven't been able to explore it. They're locked in a legal battle over who has the rights to the land. 
 What they don't know is that I'm a geologist working undercover for the preservation lobby. So, at night... I go down. 
 He's documenting it to support their case. 
 Wow. So how deep does it go? 
 No one really knows. I've been in the furthest and that was about two miles down. But I like to pretend it's infinite. 
 It's kind of an odd job isn't it? Guardian of an infinite abyss? 
 Yeah, I guess it is. We also trade and deal in antique jewelry. I suppose it's pretty odd for you that we live down here like this- 
 No. 
 Never crossed my mind. 
 But we think it's important. 
 I don't know. It's exciting. New frontiers are hard to come by these days. I guess I just like the idea of discovering something. 
 Who knows? Maybe. But I used to think that was all that mattered. No matter what it was, as long as I could put my name on it. Like it would somehow justify the fact that I lived; that I was here. "I did that. That's mine. I got this plate on my travels." But you know what? That's all ego; none of that stuff really matters. If at the end of the day I get to be with her, if I get to be with this person right here and the baby we created, then that's all I need. Just having felt that... If I die in an hour, I know I've lived. Faye kisses his forehead. 
 Save something from being discovered. 
 Well I think that force would rather remind you that "breathing's all it takes to be a miracle". He takes a deep breath. Large, Sam and mark stare at Albert; TRANSFIXED. He's like a sage. 
 Well i suppose you want what you came all the way down here for. 
 Yeah, that would be great. 
 It took me awhile to track this piece down. But I owe Diego huge. He pulls a small paper bag off the counter and hands it to Mark. Mark looks inside and nods his head. 
 That's it. Thank you. They all stand. 
 Well thank you for the tea. 
 Okay, good luck in the rain. Would you like some garbage bags or something? 
 Good-bye. Albert stands with his arm around Faye in their warm doorway. As the three of them climb down the ladder and head up the path. Large turns back' around. 
 Yeah? 
1 
 (with a smile) Thank you. 
 (BEAT) 
] 
 (BEAT) 
 I know. Don't you wanna know what's in the bag? 
 I'd be lying to ya if I told ya this was my plan all along. 
 (BEAT) But I got it back. That's got to be worth something, right? 
 
 MARK (CONT'D) Hey, if you ever need a Kato, you know where to find me. Large sits back down on the bike into Sam's wet arms. He stares at the pendant in his hand. 
 What is it? 
 Why not? I'm curious. She's sitting here, across from you and you can say anything at all. All the things you never got a chance to say. 
 (BEAT) No? 
 I (BEAT) Well I don't want to push you. I just thought it might help. I mean isn't that what you came home for? Re stops playing with the necklace and takes a deep breath. 
 (BEAT) I would... 
 (BEAT) If she were sitting here. 
 What? 
 (BEAT) I would tell her that I'm sorry. 
 (BEAT) I'm sorry that she wasn't happy. And I'm sorry I couldn't make her happy. And you know if I could have had anything I ever wanted to have happen in my life actually ever happen, it would have been that she would be happy. And... A tiny tear wells in his lid and. spills over. 
 Oh, my God, Large I think I see one. 
 Yeah, I do. Don't move, we should save it or something. She finds a clear plastic cup. 
 SAM (COUT' D) Here don't move, I'm gonna get it. She tries to coerce the- tear off his cheek into the cup, like a child capturing an inch worm. 
 Is that it? 
 Well if you do, let me know and I'll grab the cup, okay? 
 This was a good idea. Keep talking. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) This is love. And it just felt so... good to be there. So safe. And I didn't feel safe very often, but at that moment... Tears are now streaming down his face as well as Sam's. She holds the plastic cup in her hand. 
 oh, Large I'm never gonna be able to get all these. They laugh. She moves closer, wrapping her legs around his waist to hug him close. She kisses his-'wet cheeks. 
 SAM (CONT'D) I'm never gonna be able to get all these, am I? 
 To be your Mom. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Look at me. 
 (BEAT) Look at me. He does. And we see a vulnerable, lonely, little boy. 
 SAM (CONT'D) (in a whisper) Let go. Listen to me. Just don't hang onto any of it anymore. You're holding on so tight and you just... you don't have to hang onto any of it anymore. Just let it all go. 
 (THROUGH TEARS) I just don't... 
 Just let it all go. He cries with his elbow over his eyes. 
 SAM (CONT'D) What do you feel? Describe it. That always helps me. My mom always says, "What's the word that's burning in your chest..." She touches his chest with her hand. 
 SAM (CONT'D) What is it? He looks away. Soared. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Look at me. He does. 
 SAM (CONT'D) 
 (GENTLE) What is it? 
 (BEAT) It's this Love that I have. 
 Yeah, it is. 
 (BEAT) And you've got so much of it in you... God, you do. You've got so many years of it in you, pleading to come out. 
 I know. But that... that is life. if nothing else... (pointing to his chest) That is life. St's real. And sometimes it burns. But maybe... it might be all there is. 
 (BEAT) Look at you. Look at you. You look like you just came back to life. He just stares at her. 
 
 SAM (CONT'D) Tissue? They both laugh; a release. 
 Trying to barrel through. 
 Well it sounds like you were due to fall. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) Come here. She comes in for a tight embrace. He kisses her gently on her cheek with his eyes closed, then rests his head on her - shoulder. 
 How do you feel? On Large's face as he thinks about that question. 
 (BEAT) When I'm with you, I feel so safe... like I'm Rome. A WIDE SHOT of the bathroom as Sam and Large embrace in the middle of the empty tub and the faucet continuee to DRIP. 
 Oh, hey, hey c'mon in. He finds his glasses on his chest and lifts the remote to turn off the TV. 
 No, no, it's uh... I was just reading. 
 You've been avoiding me. 
 I'm sure you can find plenty of things in your life to be angry about, but what I don't understand is why you're so angry at me. All I ever wanted was for everybody to be happy again, Andrew. That's all I ever wanted. 
 (BEAT) You know... you and I need to work on being okay if that's not in the cards for us. 
 Well we might have a shot at it if you could just forgive yourself for what you did. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You've always said you wanted us to have whatever it is we wanted. Well maybe what Mom wanted more than anything, was for it to all be over. And for me, what I really want more than anything, is for it to be okay with you for me to feel something again; even if it's pain. 
 Going against your doctor's recommendation; that's a pretty weighty experiment to take on don't you think? 
 (BEAT) I see now it's all there is. 
 Perhaps the great tragedy of my life, will be that you both deserved more than I knew how to give? 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You and I are gonna be okay. You know that, right? 
 (BEAT) 
 What are you doing? 
 No. Why? How can you... how could you... What's going on? What happened? We can figure out the long distance thing. Don't... this is a good thing, Large. Don't... you're gonna be... please don't do this. Shestarts crying. 
 
 (THROUGH TEARS) You don't realize. This is good. This doesn't happen often in your life. We can figure this stuff out. I wanna help you. We need each other; I haven't even lied in two days. 
 No. 
 LARGE (CONT`D) This isn't a conversation about this being over. It's about me needing time to... Look, I just fired my psychiatrist, I gotta go out and find a new one. He stares off. Decision time. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) - I gotta go. I'm gonna call you. As soon as I get there I'm gonna call you. She nods; heartbroken. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) Look at me. She doesn't. LARGE (CONT' t ) Look at me. She turns. 
 LARGE (CONT'D) You've changed my life, Samantha. And I've known you for four days. This is the beginning of something big. But right now I gotta go. He kisses her on her mouth. As he pulls away she arcs her head to touch his lips for one more second. 
 (O.S.) Well Paul is off tonight, but we're lucky enough to have Ryan Walker here to tell us about our weather. 
 (O.S.) Ryan, how's it lookin' out there? 
 (O.S.) Gideon? 
 (O.S.) Thank you, Dan. Well I have some good news. We are in for some gorgeous weather coming our way out of the northwest. 
 Gideon? A SCREAM and a BANG from the in the other room! GIDEON'S FACE as it whips up into frame from his task on the floor. 
! 
 
 I SARAH IS DROWNING. Through the door we see SPLASHES OF WATER as they land on the bathroom floor.'S FACE. he can't move; fro2en. His mind is racing; ADRENALINE. We can almost see how fast:his, mind is processing through his EYES. The WEATHER REPORT continues low in the background. 
 SARAH (CONT'D) 
 (THROUGH GASPS) 
... And then silence.ON'S FACE; Wide-eyed in terror. HIS FINGERS as they slide down off the bathroom door frame. He backs away slowly to the bed and site down; staring blankly at the bathroom door. And then he starts to SOB. Quickly his whole body seems to surrender into it and he WEEPS hard. His whole back lurches upward with each SOH. 
 (O.S.) So there you have it folks; get out the picnic baskets, push up those storm windows, 'cause it appears that Spring has arrived. 
 I need an ambulance. 
 What are you doing? 
 The ellipses? 
 Yeah. 
 
 
 LARGE (CONT - D) 
