 
 
 (next to Chris, Southern accent) That what I think it is? 
 1 (a look) I guess so ... 
 Okay, let's go ... 
 Well I'll be dipped in shit - new meat!  Sorry bout that boys - 'sin loi' buddy ... you gonna love the Nam, man, for-fucking-ever. 
 What are you waiting for?  He ain't gonna bite you. Move out. 
 Bravo Two, Six.  What's the delay up there, move it out on point.  We've got a link up at Phase Line Whiskey at One Eight Zero Zero, over. 
 Two Bravo, Two move it out.  Six says we're jamming 'em up back there.  Over. 
 Tell that dipshit to get fucked.  Get that other freshmeat up here.  Gardner. 
 BARNES (CONT'D) What the hell's the matter with you Taylor!  You a sorry ass motherfucker.  Fall back. 
 You okay? 
 Ants.  I got ants on my neck ... (shaking them out) 
 (helping him) Yeah, black ants are killers, you look sick man.  You need a little salt. (reaching into his satchel) 
 (shaking his head, amused) You're humping way too much, troop, don't need half this shit.  I'll haul it for you but next time you check it out with me okay? 
 You're a sick mother Bunny. 
 (concerned) Hold it up. 
 (trying to get up) I'm okay ... I'm okay. 
 Shit, King, it ain't d-e-r-e man, it's d-e-a-r, and Sara don't have no two r's in it, fool.  Shame on you. 
 Don't matter, she knows what it means ... an she don't read too good nohow ... 
 Mumm, any time sweetheart. 
 Lerner, you'd choke to death on it. 
 Sky Six reports a fresh company of NVA moving across from Cambodia to this blue line. (points to position) We got a good chance to light 'em up tonight.  All platoons will set squad-size ambushes before full dark.  Lt. Wolfe (glances at him) You 'bush in this area near that ol' Buddhist temple we passed on the hump in.  Lt. Hawkins, you take this area in the rubber plantation... 
 (eager) No problem sir ... 
 (a whining high voice) Hey Big Harold, gimme your peaches for the fruitcake man. 
 (laughes loudly) Fuck you bitch. 
 C'mon man, didn't I do you right that time I give you the turkey loaf for the ham and lima beans shit. 
 Tricky bitch, reason you gimme dat turkey loaf is nobody else can eat that shit 'cept me so don't start your game playing with me Junior. 
 Youse a pig man.  I hope Manny get dat laundry gig for' you do. 
 De fool think he's gonna get it but he ain't known for his thinking. 
 He's a fool alright but you a bigger fool.  Hey, whiteboy, watcha waiting for - dat hole ain't gonna dig itself ... 
 JUNIOR (CONT'D) Hey Taylor, you don't know it but I saved your ass today.  I killed a shit-eating dog. (laughing) 
 (getting up) That reminds me, I gotta take a shit. 
 You gonna wipe your ass dis time? 
 Yeah if you let me have your shirt. 
 (VOICE OVER, as he digs) Somebody once wrote Hell is the impossibility of Reason.  That's what this place feels like.  I hate it already and it's only been a week.  Some goddamn week, grandma ... (checking his raw blisters) ... the hardest thing I think I've ever done is to go on point, 3 times this week - I don't even know what I'm doing.  A gook could be standing 3 feet in front of me and I wouldn't know it, I'm so tired.  We get up at 5 a.m., hump all day, camp around 4 or 5 p.m., dig foxhole, eat, then put out an all-night ambush or a 3-man listening post in the jungle.  It's scary cause nobody tells me how to do anything cause I'm new and nobody cares about the new guys, they don't even want to know your name.  The unwritten rule is a new guy's life isn't worth as much cause he hasn't put his time in yet - and they say if you're gonna get killed in the Nam it's better to get it in the first few weeks, the logic being: you don't suffer that much.  I can believe that ... If you're lucky you get to stay in the perimeter at night and then you pull a 3-hour guard shift, so maybe you sleep 3-4 hours a night, but you don't really sleep ... I don't think I can keep this up for a year, grandma - I think I've made a big mistake coming here ... 
 (to all, almost pleased about it) We got boo-coo movement.  3rd Battalion just got hit 15 kliks north of here. (the MEN react with wary silence) 
 O'NEILL (eager to elaborate) Yeah, they had claymores strung up in the trees, blew a whole fucking platoon to pieces.  BAAD SHIT. 
 Yeah, they got two Lieutenants and a Captain. 
 Jesus. 
 WOLFE (CONT'D) (to Barnes) Who do you want on ambush, Sergeant? 
 Elias - you take your squad and I'll take Tex and Francis from your squad. (to Warren) We move out in two-zero mikes. (concluding) 
 I thought it was O'Neill's turn tonight. 
 O'NEILL Shit!  Morehouse and Sal are short.  Fu Sheng's going on R&R, you don't want to send their asses out on an ambush.  You got the fresh meat Elias. 
 (to Barnes) They don't know shit Barnes, and chances are we gonna run into something. 
 O'NEILL So what am I going to do!  Get one of my guys zapped so some fuckface fresh from the World can get his beauty fucking sleep! 
 Hey O'Neill why don't you cool it, you don't have to be a prick everyday of your life, you know. 
 O'NEILL Fuck you Elias. 
 You get your men ready Elias ... 
 O'NEILL (watching him) Fucking guy's got 3 years in and he thinks he's Cochise or something ... 
 Shit, looks like rain.  All night too.  Gonna grow mushrooms in your bad-ass crotch Junior. 
 (under his breath) Goddamn ain't no justice round here, you break your ass for de white man ... gonna get our act together, do some rappin' wid de brothers, change things ... 
 What's O'Neill have a nose up the lieutenant's ass already, how come we always get ambush. 
 Politics, man, politics.  We always getting fucked around here. 
 Hey Chris, I show you a picture of Lucy Jean? 
 (not to be bothered) No ... 
 (admiring) Yeah she's the one all right ... that's Lucy Jean. She's a-waiting for me. 
 (nodding) Yeah she's real pretty, you're lucky ... 
 (to both boys) Don't need this or this ... you're doing okay.  Just stick close to Tex, do what he does. (calling out to Tex) Tex you got Junior and Taylor here on your position. 
 Damn, 'Lias this gun's boss.  Put Taylor someplace else. 
 You got Taylor ... (to Gardner) ... Gardner you go with me (to Chris and Gardner) 'Case somethin' happens to you, you get separated or lost don't yell out okay.  Sit tight.  We'll get to you. 
 Okay, let's move out. 
 Taylor, you're on. 
 (groggy) Uh hunh. 
 (suspicious) You sure you know how to work the claymore? 
 (offended) Sure. 
 Okay ... don't catch no zzz's on me buddy or I'll sling your motherfucking ass ... You hear me? 
 (grits his teeth) Yeah. (looking at his watch) Hey Tex - you're ten minutes fast. 
 Sin Loi. ('tough luck', closes his teeth) 
 Junior! 
 Unh? ... Unh. 
 Shaddup!  You're snoring ... Shhh. 
 (V.O.) (continuing his letter) ... 'Course Mom and Dad didn't want me to come, they wanted me to be just like them - respectable, hard- working, making $200 a week, a little house, a family.  They drove me crazy with their goddamn world, grandma, you know Mom, I don't want to be a white boy on Wall Street, I don't want my whole life to be predetermined by them. 
 CHRIS (V.O.) (CONT'D) ... I guess I have always been sheltered and special, I just want to be anonymous.  Like everybody else. Do my share for my country.  Live up to what Grandpa did in the First War and Dad the Second.  I know this is going to be the war of my generation.  Well here I am - anonymous all right, with guys nobody really cares about - they come from the end of the line, most of 'em, small towns you never heard of - Pulaski, Tennessee, Brandon, Mississippi, Pork Bend, Utah, Wampum, Pennsylvania.  Two years' high school's about it, maybe if they're lucky a job waiting for 'em back in a factory, but most of 'em got nothing, they're poor, they're the unwanted of our society, yet they're fighting for our society and our freedom and what we call America, they're the bottom of the barrel - and they know it, maybe that's why they call themselves 'grunts' cause a 'grunt' can take it, can take anything.  They're the backbone of this country, grandma, the best I've ever seen, the heart and soul - I've found it finally, way down here in the mud - maybe from down here I can start up again and be something I can be proud of, without having to fake it, maybe ... I can see something I don't yet see, learn something I don't yet know ... I miss you, I miss you very much, tell Mom I miss her too - Chris. 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Wake up! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) It's your shift, man ... 
 THE CLAYMORE!  GET THOSE FUCKERS! 
 TEX (CONT'D) THE SAFETY! TAKE THE SAFETY OFF YOU ... 
 Feed me! 
 TEX (CONT'D) AAAAAGHHH! MY ARM! MY ARM! 
 (grabbing Tex's gun) DOC! GET UP HERE! TEX IS HIT! 
 HOLD IT UP! HOLD IT UP! 
 (freaked out) MY ARM! JESUS FUCKING CHRIST! 
 Easy Tex easy boy! 
 (next position) Doc over here!  Gardner's hit. 
 'Right there. 
 (muttering at Chris) ... godamn!  Godamn!  DUMB FUCKER, DUMB FUCKER! 
 Oh shit, Doc he's hit too. 
 (weakly) I'm hit ... 
 (to Barnes, pointing at Chris) That dumb fuck didn't blow his claymore! 
 (to Chris) ... it's a scratch, nothing to worry about. 
 (suspicious) Doc ... tell me the truth, don't lie to me. 
 (to Barnes) He let'em walk right up on us.  He was sleeping on his shift. 
 (muttering weakly) I was not ... it was your ... 
 (leaving, to Harold and Junior) Self-preservation's the first law of nature.  Gotta learn how to work your shit Taylor.  Watch me, don't let'em go into shock. 
 Shut up!  Shut up - and TAKE IT!  TAKE THE PAIN! 
 You gonna be okay Taylor, okay, don't you start worrying now. 
 Do you ... do you know you're gonna die ... Big Harold? ... do you feel like ... like ... everything's gonna be fine and then ... 
 Bullshit man, you gettin outta the field, man.  Three hots a day, white sheets, dem pretty white nurses give you blowjobs too you pay em enough, I heard tell bout dem white bitches.  Better save yo strength Taylor. 
 (muttering darkly) Don babytalk him man.  Cocksucker fell asleep.  They walked right up on us, he don do shit. 
 Shaddup bitch. 
 It's not ... so bad ... dying.  How long .. it ... 
 (stripping the corpse) That's no NVA man.  That's a chink - look at 'em, the cocksucker's six and a half feet tall.  Look at his gear - good as ours. 
 Shit I blew my claymore right in one dude's face and I seen him walking around afterwards. 
 What we fighting here, vampires? 
 Blood trail just keeps going and going but no body. 
 How the hell did he get away? 
 Fuckers returned fire soon as we lit 'em up.  Hard core fuckin' NVA.  They got their shit together. 
 (coming up to Barnes) Sarge - Doc wants you.  There's a problem with the new man. 
 Chopper's on the way Gardner, hang in there, you gonna be okay ... 
 (to all) Take a good look at this lump o'shit ... (motions to Gardner's body) Rmember what it looks like, all of you.  You fuck up in a firefight and I guaran-goddamn-tee you, a trip out of the bush - IN A BODYBAG.  Out here, assholes, you keep your shit wired tight at ALL times ... (glares directly at Chris) and that goes for you, shit for brains.  You don't SLEEP ON NO FUCKIN' AMBUSH.  Next sonofabitch I catch coppin' z's in the bush I'm personally gonna take an interest in seeing him suffer - I SHIT YOU NOT ... 
 (drowsy) I didn't fall asleep, Sergeant, Junior ... 
 (pissed, cuts in, shoves him hard) Shut your face chicken shit!  You in big trouble boy! 
 O'NEILL Excuses are like assholes, Taylor - everybody got one. 
 Knock it off!  We got two men need attention here. Police up your extra ammo and frags, don't leave nothing for the dinks.  Hoyt, Junior, carry Gardner. 
 (muttering) Let de white boy carry his ass, he this dude that got him fucked up.  Who'd be hauling his ass if that was a brother laying there? 
 Man'd be alive if he'd had a few more days to learn something. 
 Hey Taylor, what's in the breeze? 
 Okay - got light duty, three days. 
 Shit, too bad we in base camp anyway. 
 What you got there - beers? 
 Yeah, just stole me some from the Top's supply but he's stealing it from us anyway. (sees somebody coming) Chucks are coming.  You better 'didi' man. 
 O'NEILL Hey Taylor - you back? 
 (pause) Uh, looks like it? 
 (spotting King's beer) Where'd you get that beer King? 
 (a funny look) I found it ... 
 You found it? ... Bullshit!  You going on report. Gimmee that shit. 
 O'NEILL Awright, come here both of you.  You too Taylor (wags his finger) Got a little special job for you. 
 I got light duty, Sarge.  Doctor said to take it easy couple days. 
 O'NEILL (laughes) ... ain't that tough shit now. 
 (pissed) ... Motherfuckah, motherfuckah, I'm too short to be dealing with this shit!  They keep fucking with us man, no letup ... 
 (equally pissed) Politics man, fuckin' politics.  That O'Neill man got his nose so far up Top's ass he gotta be Pinocchio... 
 Forty-two days man and a wakeup and I'm a gone motherfucker.  Back to de WORLD. (dreaming in his eyes) 
 Broke a 100.  Got 92 to go.  April 17.  DEROS man. California this summer.  Waves are good they tell me, surfin's gonna be good ... 
 March man in Tennessee, sniff the pines ... sniff that crossmounted pussy walkin' down by the river. What you got Taylor? (a snicker) Let's see three hundred and WHAT? 
 ... 32. 332 days. 
 (groans) Oh man!  Sorry bout that.  I can't even remember when I was 332.  You gotta count backwards like you got 40 days in - think positive. 
 (to Chris) How the fuck you get over here man, you look like you educated ... 
 I volunteered. 
 You WHAT?  Say 'gain. 
 Yeah, I dropped out of college and told 'em I wanted infantry, combat, and Nam ... 
 You volunteered for this shit man? 
 You a crazy fucker, givin' up college man. 
 Didn't make much sense.  Wasn't learning anything ... (hesitates) And why should just the poor kids go to the war - and the college kids get away with it. 
 What we got here a crusader? 
 Sounds like it. 
 Sheeit, gotta be rich in the first place to think like dat.  Everybody know the poor always being fucked by the rich.  Always have, always will. 
 KING (CONT'D) You okay man?  Neck botherin' you? 
 Nah ... 
 Here have some of this.  Won't feel a thing. 
 No, thanks ... 
 Go on, whatcha gotta lose, yo' here now ... 
 Kills the smell of shit anyway. 
 Suck it in.  Hold it ... That's it.  Now let it out. 
 Don't feel it. 
 Dat's what they all say. 
 ... you know that night we got hit ... I ... (ashamed) 
 Fuck it, don't mean nothing, no such thing here as a coward, done your best man, next time y'do better. 
 History, man, history. 
 (deadpans) I think I'm starting to feel that stuff ... 
 (laughes) Yo getting there Taylor.  You be cool now and I'll introduce you 'round to some of the 'heads'. 
 What are the heads? 
 (laughes, walks away with Crawford) Later ... 
 Whatcha doing in the underworld Taylor? 
 (smiling) This ain't Taylor.  Taylor been shot.  This man Chris been resurrected ... 
 You lame Taylor? 
 What? 
 You lame or something? 
 (smiling) ... go ahead on, smoke it man. 
 Your shit's in the wind troop.  Baaaaah! 
 And Baaaaaaa! back on you. 
 (looking at Lerner with distaste) If you're gonna do it man, 'least do it right. 
 RHAH (CONT'D) Baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!! 
 I didn't like it. 
 Bah, you're a child, Lerner.  Rhah don't waste time on you. 
 Put your mouth on that. 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) First time? 
 Yeah. 
 Then the worm has definately turned for you man. 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) (smiles) Feel good? 
 (a sense of euphoria now) Yeah.  No pain in my neck now.  Feels good. 
 Feelin' good's good enough. 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) Hey Crutcher.  I hear you got a Dear John from your gal.  Told you she wasn't getting 'nuff from you. 
 Shit.  Sold me out for some lame dude with a 4-F. 
 What'd you say her name was again? 
 (recalling her image) Daisy Mae. 
 Hey look at Charlotte! 
 Daisy Mae!  What Daisy Mae look like Crutcher? 
 She look huge and got freckles on her ass. 
 She look beautiful. 
 How much she weigh man? 
 She braid her hair under her armpits, Crutcher. 
 (sarcastic) Daisy Mae what? 
 Daisy Mae Highway, that's what. (laughing) Well whatcha want, Lerner, your dick been limp for a year, 'cept when you're bopping your buddy Tony up there. 
 Fuck that. 
 I fucked this chick in Hawaii man.  Couple weeks ago ... Oooooh!  Wow - outasight.  Gracie Slick man, she looked like Gracie man, I shit you not. (remembering) 
 What happened man.  What whorehouse you go to? 
 No whorehouse man.  On the beach. 
 Sure. 
 Yeah, sure.  She walked right by me.  Long black hair, tits swinging.  Ass like French bread.  Legs don't end right. 
 (skeptical) You can plant that shit in Tennessee man, but it won't come up in Texas. 
 So what she got, hair on her tits. 
 I just stopped man.  My heart's beating like a hardon right I got a hardon sticking through my pants, my bathing suit looks like a hutch ... 
 I know dat feeling ... 
 So I'm thinking to myself - Elias you walk away from this, you gonna regret this the rest of your natural life.  So I go after her, follow her down the beach. You know find out if she is what she is. 
 And? 
 Well she was picking up her kids. 
 Dat's dat. 
 No, dat ain't dat. 
 Get outta here, she married ... 
 Like two hogs in heat.  Boy. 
 (joining in) ... But what'd she do? 
 What didn't she do.  She fucked the living shit outta me, that's what she did! 
 (sucking in air) Jesus! 
 Couldn't get enuff ... 
 But what'd she actually do? 
 She was a crossbreed, Chinese and Polish. 
 What dat? 
 (finally hooked in) And living in Hawaii man? 
 Yeah - and has blonde hair and almond-shaped eyes. 
 Hey man didn't you say she had black hair? 
 She had blonde hair man.  And long tan legs, in those leather sandals you know, with those thongs up to her knees, this musky oil on it ... mmmm smelled good when they were wrapped around my face ... 
 Yeah! 
 God! 
 Please, somebody hold my dick! 
 (in afterthought) ... and a broken nose. 
 Broken man? 
 Yeah, otherwise she would've been too perfect, y'know what I mean ... some woman.  Her name was ... 
 Susan? 
 Tamara? 
 Elizabeth? 
 Merle? 
 Merle?  Jesus!  ... Patty? 
 Inga? 
 Jennifer? 
 Connie? 
 Dawn!  That was it! 
 (repeating it) Dawn ... 
 Dawn? 
 Yeah, Dawn ... 
 (listening to the music) Listen to that shit, that's good shit! 
 (irritated as always) Fuck that redneck noise, dude.  All dem chicks be rappin' how dey losin' der' ho's and how dey ain't got no bread for beer.  Fuck dat honky shit.  Got to get me some motown jams, dig it? 
 (doesn't understand a word of it) Whaddaya talking shit for man.  Hey Junior!  Y'ever smoke any shit? 
 Das right dude.  You be tryin' to string de black man out on dat shit and keep him DOWN.  Time's be coming, my man, when de black man's gonna throw off that yoke. 
 (lonely in his way for company) Say I can dig it.  Smoke that shit everything kinda gets weird y'know? (hiccups, sits) Y'hear that story the gooks is putting chemicals in the grass so's we become 'pacifists' so's we don fight (to no one in particular) Where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that's what - bunch of hopheads, they think they special ... 
 (turns away, bored) Don you worry Bunny, youse a killer anyway. 
 Yeah but I still like a piece of pussy once in a while - ain't nothing like a piece of pussy cept maybe the Indie 500. 
 Youse so fucked up man. 
 Y'ever look at yoself in the mirror Junior, youse uglier than a dick on a dog man. (laughing) 
 Yeah, you had a piece of pussy on a plate in front of you, you'd probably kill it. 
 Shit, I bet I been laid more'n you have. 
 Sure, you probably stick it in tween her knees and think youse there. 
 Yeah? 
 Only way you'd get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you - and then maybe. 
 (amiable) How you doing Rodriguez? 
 Good sir. 
 Need anything? 
 No sir. 
 (to O'Neill) How's it going Red? (using his nickname) 
 O'NEILL Shit, cocksucker's got all the cards tonight. 
 (to Barnes) Looks like you're doing all right Sergeant. 
 Yeah, and I ain't even cheating yet. 
 (the big blond kid) Have some Kentucky windage Lieutenant. (passes him the bottle of bourbon) 
 Play Lieutenant? 
 Nah, I wouldn't want to get raped by you guys ... 
 O'NEILL What are you saving up to be Lieutenant - Jewish? 
 Catch you men later.  Enjoy yourselves. 
 O'NEILL Sorry ass motherfucker ain't he.  You think he gonna make it Barnes? 
 ALL (CONT'D) '... So take a good look at my face.  You'll see the smile looks out of place.  Look a little bit closer. It's easy to trace.  The tracks of my tears...' 
 (V.O.) New Year's Day, 1968.  Just another day.  Staying alive.  There's been a lot of movement neat the Cambodian border, regiments of NVA moving across.  A lot of little firefights, ambushes, we drop a lot of bombs, then we walk through the napalm like ghosts in a landscape ... 
 Pssst! 
 BARNES (CONT'D) (whispers) Bunker ... 
 Where? 
 Hey look at that. 
 (a worried type) Leave it willya - it's gook shit. 
 Nah this stuff's important. 
 Corpsman! 
 BARNES (CONT'D) (directly to Sal) Goddamit!  Are you fucking kids ever gonna learn! Don't you understand how easy it is to die! 
 Holy Jesus! 
 Tell Six we need engineers here, this pos. is crawling with traps. 
 They're on their way ... (consulting his map) There's a gook village half a klik downriver, Battalion wants us to move in and search it ASAP, something's going on ... where's Barnes? 
 You gonna sit there and play with yourself Taylor or you gonna be part of my war ... Awright, saddle up, let's go - Tubbs you got point. 
 O'NEILL Where's Manny? 
 Manny! ... Hey Buchanan. 
 Hey man whatcha doing ... where you at?  Get your black ass back in here! 
 (V.O.) We had to get to the village before dark so we left Elias with some men to keep looking and to wait for the engineers ... But it was King who found him ... about 1000 yards downriver, not far from the village - It was the end of the mystery. 
 (V.O.) ... the village, which had stood for maybe a thousand years, didn't know we were coming that day.  If they had they would have run ... Barnes was at the eye of our rage - and through him, our Captain Ahab - we would set things right again.  That day we loved him ... 
 Hey pig, pig - come here, pig, pig. 
 There goes one! 
 (to Tony) Check him out. 
 Get out of there you fuckheads move!  Move! 
 BARNES (CONT'D) (to Harold) Put'em in the pig pen. (to Hoyt) There's more down there.  Gimme your Willy Pete. 
 BARNES (CONT'D) FIRE IN THE HOLE! 
 (hustling up to Barnes) Sarge, we found some shit! 
 La Dai! La Dai! GET THE FUCK OUTTA THERE! 
 Hey take it easy man.  They're scared. 
 They're scared?  What about me!  I'm sick of this shit man, I"m sick of this shit!  They don't want us here!  Who do you think they're fighting for!  GET 
! 
 SGT. WARREN (to Barnes) ... and over here there's enough rice to feed a whole fuckin' regiment ... 
 (to Warren) ... bring the honcho over here. (to Tubb and Junior) Burn it. 
 Hey look at this! Ma and Pa Kettle here.  Look at them - greasy gook motherfuckers! 
 Get up out of there! ... You see I didn't wanna hurt you.  Why didn't you come out, when I said so hunh! Why? WHY! WHY? DON'T YOU LISTEN ... WHAT ARE YOU SMILING AT HUNH! FUCKING ASSHOLES! 
 Do 'em man, do 'em. 
 (demonic) DANCE YOU ONE-LEGGED MOTHERFUCKER, DANCE!!! 
 (leaves) Let's get out of here man. 
 (to Chris) You chickenshit man, they're laughing at you, look at them faces.  That's the way a gook laughs. 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) Yeah sure you are, you're real sorry ain't you. You're just crying out your hearts about Sandy and Sal and Manny - they're laughing at us!  Their family is out there in the fucking bush blowing us away and they're laughing at us! 
 O'NEILL (checking out the hutch) Forget it will ya, let's go ... 
 Fucker! 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) That's for Sandy!  And this is for Sal!  And this is for fucking Manny!  This is for me! 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) (stepping back, examines what's left of the head, amazed) Wow!  You see his fucking head come apart?  Look at that ... I never seen brains like dat before.  Jesus fucking Christ ... 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) Betcha the old bitch runs the whole show.  Probably helped cut Manny's throat.  Probably cut my balls off if she could. (to Chris) Come on, man, let's do her. 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) (hitting her again) Let's zap all these motherfuckers!  Let's do the whole village! 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) GET BACK HERE YOU FUCKING COWARD O'NEILL.  THIS IS FOR SANDY ... THIS IS FOR SANDY MAN! AND SAL! AND 
! 
 Where'd he get these wounds? 
 He says he was hit in a bombing raid. 
 He's a dink fosure. 
 Ask him what the weapons are doing here? 
 He says they had no choice.  The NVA killed the old honcho when he said no.  He says the rice is theirs. 
 Bullshit ... who the hell was the dink we just nailed on the riverbank? 
 ... He says he doesn't know, NVA haven't been around in a couple of months.  Maybe it was a scout or ... 
 Yeah sure it was.  What about all that fucking rice and the weapons ... who they for? (looking at the Village Chief) Cocksucker knows what I'm saying ... don't you Pop? (a blank look) 
 You're goddamn right he does! 
 (finally) He swears he doesn't know anything!  He hates the NVA but they come when they want and ... 
 He's lying through his teeth! 
 Waste the fucker, then see who talks. 
 What's the bitch saying? 
 (overwhelmed) She's going on, I don't know - why are we shooting the pigs, they're farmers ... they got to make a living, all that crap ... 
 (to Lerner) Tell him he talks or I'm gonna waste more of 'em. 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Go ahead, Lerner, ask him. 
 They don't know Sarge, they don't know! (half believes it) 
 (sensing the impending massacre) Hey Sarge can we get in on this. 
 Let's go all the way, let's go for it!  Let's do the whole fucking village.  Come on, Sarge. 
 This his daughter, right? 
 BARNES (CONT'D) (to Village Chief) You lie ... You Vee Cee ... I caca ado Vee Cee! 
 
!! 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) WHAT THE FUCK YOU DOING! 
 (pissed) Stay out of this Elias.  This ain't your show. 
 YOU AIN'T A FIRING SQUAD, YOU PIECE OF SHIT!! 
 BREAK IT UP!  ELIAS!  BARNES! 
 You're dead, you're fucking dead Elias! 
 YOU - you're going to fuckin' jail, buddy, you ain't getting away with this one!!!!! 
 All right!  All right!  All right!!!  NOW BREAK IT UP.  LET'S GO ... 
 WOLFE (CONT'D) Alright, Six says torch this place!  Blow the weapons in place.  Round up all suspected Vee Cees and shake it up!  We ain't got much light left. 
 (to Wolfe) Why the fuck didn't you do something Lieutenant! 
 What are you talking about! (turns away, goes about his business) 
 (spins him around) You know what I'm talking about! 
 No I don't.  I don't know what the fuck you're talking about, Elias! (goes) 
 Whew! - where that come from? 
 Found it.  Growing in a garden. 
 (smokes) Sheeit, beats burning hutches anyway ... 
 Yeah - stoned's the way to be ... 
 Take her up the ass ... 
 LET HER GO!  YOU HEAR ME!  YOU ASSHOLE!  LET HER GO! 
 What the fuck you want - she's a dink. 
 NO - YOU STUPID FUCK ... DON'T ... DON'T ... YOU TOO BUNNY.  MOREHOUSE.  OFF!  NO!  DON'T ... DON'T! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) (to the girl) It's okay ... it's okay ... 
 Get outta here. 
 (as if to himself) It's okay, it's okay ... 
 ... and you Lieutenant? 
 I didn't see anything sir. 
 I did. 
 That dink was reported to me as NVA sir by Sergeant Barnes.  Sergeant Barnes. 
 My report sir, will include Lt.Wolfe as being witness to the shooting ... 
 All right, Elias.  Sergeant Barnes, I want a report from you ... 
 You got it sir - and I can throw in plenty of eye- witnesses if you want sir ... 
 Not now.  We'll get into this when we get back to base camp.  Right now I need every man in the field, I want your guys to stick together ... Elias? Barnes? ... You hear me?  This is no time for fighting with each other. (pause, they nod) Tomorrow we're going back into that bunker complex - from the East. (continuing) First Platoon will lead ... Brigade thinks they might be back there tomorrow.  That's all ... Get some rest. (turns away) 
 Don't worry about it Sergeant, he won't be able to prove a thing, he's a troublemaker but ... 
 Elias' a waterwalker ... like them politicians in Washington.  Want to fight their war with one hand tied round their balls.  Ain't no time or need for a courtroom out here ... 
 O'NEILL How'd it go. 
 Thataway Sarge, fuckin' Elias man, fuckin' squeal that's what he is, gonna get everybody in the platoon in shit.  Somebody oughta fix his ass ... 
 O'NEILL (worried) Gonna be an investigation or something Bob? 
 Ya worry too much O'Neill ... 
 I know Barnes six months and I'll tell ya something - that man is MEAN, red in his soul like a dick on a dog. 
 Barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking ... 
 Where's he form? 
 Barnes comes from Hell. 
 Tennessee someplace.  Hill country. 
 Barnes took a bullet right there.  At Ia Drang Valley ... (points to his forehead) And the cocksucker SURVIVED - that's BAAAD man. That's his high, baby.  High on WAR! 
 He done a year in Japan in the hospital, then when he gets out, the first thing he done is re-up.  Four years he been in the field ... 
 ... and you know how many times he done been shot? (Chris shakes his head) Seven times! (with his fingers) Seven. 
 And he still wanted to come back? 
 Does a pee wee wanna take a wee wee? 
 The Good Lord works his revenge in strange ways. 
 Yeah, you done said it.  Revenge on US. 
 Does he have a metal plate in his head? 
 (smiles) You mean he's crazy?  No more crazy'n the rest of us been out in the bush too long. 
 Well he ain't normal that's fosure. 
 That's what he is ... Baaaa! 
 RHAH (CONT'D) ... and he's FILLED with it.  He's roaming these jungles looking for little yellow devils to kill. Remember the Devil does God's work too. (pause) ... and this here's Elias ... Baaaa! 
 Love, yeah! 
 (makes a cuckoo sign) Here we go again with the crazy preacher stuff.  Rhah seen too many movies. 
 Baaa, got no time to go to the movies.  Love and Hate too busy fighting for possession of my soul. 
 Where's Elias come from? 
 (interjecting) 'Lias come naturally. 
 ... don't know.  Done some time.  Heard he worked the oil wells in Oklahoma, made some bread and washed up in El Lay. 
 Yeah, get married to some crazy El Lay bitch, an actress or somethin', she blew all his bread - LSD, gurus, all that California shit, and then she turns him into the cops on a drug rap. 
 Not the only man to meet his Jezebel either. 
 So he got a reduced and come over here.  Nam's his freedom man, Nam's his pussy.  Three years he been here. 
 Three years, Jesus, he's crazy as Barnes ... 
 Well sometimes a man jes don' wanna go back.  How you gonna talk to civilians man?  People back in the world just don't give a shit, y'know what I mean, to them you're a fuckin' animal is all - 
 (to Chris) I was home on leave y'know and everybody's just worried 'bout making money, everybody's out for themselves, they don't even want to talk about it man, it's like the fucking Twilight Zone back there - you wouldn't even KNOW there's a war on here.  My sister says to me why you have to go there like I started this ... 
 Baaaa!  Fuck it, they sold us out - so what!  What'd you'all expect?  Civilian life is phoney BULLSHIT man.  They're ROBOTS man - watchin' dopey television and drivin' dopey cars, and they fuck up, nobody dies.  That's all right, you keep fuckin' up, politicians keep lyin'.  Cause it don't really matter.  Don't mean shit.  So what!  Whatcha want - a parade!  Fuck that too!  No war time no grunt never got no respect.  Till he was dead - and even THEN! You're fighting for YOURSELF man!  You're fighting for your SOUL, dat's all.  Remember dat.  And it's some goddamn battle too - if you'se a man, wrestle with that angel ... (swings his entrenching tool in a rhythmic chain-gang style) ... Love and Hate - the whole shitbang show, that's the story then and now and it ain't hardly gonna change ... 
 ... I can't sleep, why don't you get some sack time. 
 ... don't feel like it either. 
 ... beautiful night. 
 Yeah.  I love this place at night.  The stars ... there's no right or wrong in them, they're just there. 
 That's a nice way of putting it. 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Barnes got it in for you, don't he? 
 (philosophically) Barnes believes in what he's doing. 
 And you, do you believe? 
 In '65 - yeah.  Now ... (pause) No.  What happened today's just the beginning.  We're gonna lose this war ... 
 (surprised) You really think so ... us? 
 ... we been kicking other people's asses so long I guess it's time we got our own kicked.  The only decent thing I can see coming out of here are the survivors - hundreds of thousands of guys like you Taylor going back to every little town in the country knowing something about what it's like to take a life and what that can do to a person's soul - twist it like Barnes and Bunny and make 'em sick inside and if you got any brains you gonna fight it the rest of your life cause it's cheap, killing is cheap, the cheapest thing I know and when some drunk like O'Neill starts glorifying it, you're gonna puke all over him and when the politicians start selling you a used war all over again, you and your generation gonna say go fuck yourself 'cause you know, you've seen it, and when you know it, deep down there ... 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) ... you know it till you die ... that's why the survivors remember.  'Cause the dead don't let em forget. 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) Oh shit!  Sometimes there's things in my head ... man.  Grass does that to me, fucks me all up like a crazy Indian ... 
 Do you believe that stuff about ... knowing you're gonna die? 
 Yeah, those are the guys that live.  I really don't think Death gives a shit, it's like a giant garbage can, I think it takes whatever it can get ... you never know where it's gonna come from anyway ... so why spin your wheels? 
 ... You ever think about reincarnation, all that stuff? 
 Sure, goes on all the time.  Maybe a piece of me's in you now, who knows.  But when you die - really die - that's a big return ticket. (soft) I like to think I'm gonna come back as ... as wind or fire - or a deer (likes the image) ... yeah, a deer ... 
 Shit, lookit this little fucker trying to get up ma glory hole. 
 Hey Big Harold, put dat in your turkey loaf it won't come out your back end. 
 (ribbing) Yeah, big boy, thought you had that laundry gig all laid out? 
 (pissed) Shit, got to paint myself white get one of dem jobs. Get ma request in for a circumcision. 
 Gonna be a rabbi man? 
 Gonna cut your pecker down to size hunh Big Harold? 
 Dat's okay wid me, better to have a small one den no one at all. 
 Your girlfriends gonna look for new lovers, man. Best thing a bro's got's his flap. 
 I'll drink to your flap in Chicago, King.  All I gotta do is stretch it out to 15 days and I'll be short 15 and the Beast just wouldn't dare send me back to the bush. 
 You gonna get some for me back in the World, Harold? Whatcha gonna do? (dreaming of it) 
 The world's gonna be ma oyster man.  First's I gonna EAT - all the hamburger and french fries and steaks soaked in onions and ketchup I can get.  Then I'se gonna FUCK and SUCK Sandy Bell till I sore all over and can't fuck no more, and den I'se gonna SLEEP for DAYS, for WEEKS!  Den I'se gonna think bout what comes next ... 
 ... you got one right there. 
 (in the stream, on radio) All right move out. 
 Don't drink that asshole.  You're gonna get malaria. 
 Shit I hope so! 
 Hey Sarge, you wanna tell me which way or do I get to figger it out? 
 SGT. WARREN Ambush!  Incoming!  Fucking incoming! 
 O'NEILL DOC, UP HERE!  Lerner's hit! ... 
 DOC!  Over here - we got ... one ... two down. Warren's hit. 
 What's going on? 
 O'NEILL Shit they got RPG's on our ass.  Fucking ambush - they was waiting for us to break trail! 
 WATCH OUT!  ROCKET! 
 Who's on point? 
 O'NEILL Lerner and Warren. 
 Where you goin' man! 
 Goddamit, you assholes get fucking' firepower out there! (to Hoyt on radio) Get Two Bravo up here.  Get me a gun. (to others) Spread it out!  More to the flanks!  Look for a fuckin' target! 
 (to Francis) Where's Lerner? 
 (terrified) Out there man - behind the log. 
 Oh Jesus! 
 Lerner!  Lerner, can you hear me man? 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Gator!  Gator! (Lerner groans) I'm gonna get you out man.  You're gonna be okay Gator ... okay? 
 (into the radio) Redleg, Redleg ... Ripper Bravo Two Actual.  Fire mission.  Grid six-four-niner ... four-zero-two. Direction six-one-zero-zero.  Dinks dug in bunkers. Danger close.  Adjust fire, over ... 
 Rog, Two Bravo.  Solid copy, stand by for shot, out. 
 Sir, Bravo Three is inbound from the Sierra Whiskey. Should be here in two zero mikes if'n they don' hit any shit. 
 Fuckin' A! 
 Lootenant, they're kickin our ass, they know we're gonna bring heavy shit on 'em pretty soon so they're gonna get in tight under the arty.  I spotted a cut running around to the left.  Lemme take some men and roll up that flank .. (pointing) I can work right up on 'em ... 
 (to Ace) Get me Barnes ... I don't know 'Lias, we got four down up there, if I split you off, we ... 
 Look, Lootenant ... 
 (yelling at Wolfe and Ace) Where the fuck is red platoon!  Tell 'em to get their asses up here!  What the fuck you doin' back here Elias?  Round up your assholes and move 'em up front, we're getting chopped to shit. 
 (yelling back) Barnes, listen to me ... there's 5-6 spiderholes back there (points) next to the church. (draws it into the ground as he talks) Third Platoon's coming up the stream to reinforce us. Flank's wide open, dinks get 3-4 snipers in these holes, when Third Platoon comes up, they'll get us in a crossfire with 'em.  We'll shoot each other to shit, then they'll hit us with everything they got. It'll be a massacre! 
 Sounds pretty far out to me 'Lias. 
 Maybe but I seen it happen at Ia Drang in '66, First Cavalry and they cut us to fuckin' pieces! (back to Barnes) Give me three men, if I'm wrong, I can still roll up that flank. 
 (a look) Take off, but keep your radio here. 
 ... You keep pouring out that suppressing fire, Barnes.  I don't wanna be caught out there with my ass hanging out you hear me? 
 Don't tell me how to fight this fucking war, 'Lias, you go crying to fucking brigade on your time.  Out here you belong to me.  Now move. 
 Sir!  Shot out.  Arty's on the way! 
 (hurrying back to the front) Get that asshole O'Neill up here willya! 
 Short round!  It's short, man!  They fuckin' got Fu Sheng!  BARNES! OVER HERE! 
 That fuckin' idiot! 
 Satchel charge!  GET DOWN! 
 Take care of him Doc!  Please! 
 ... don't ... don't leave me man ... 
 Taylor - get your ass over here.  Move! 
 Hang tough, Gator.  Hang in there, man, you're gonna be OK ... just hang on. 
 YOU IGNORANT ASSHOLE! - What the fuck coordinates you giving!  You killed a bunch of people with that fucked up fire mission!  You know that? ... ah shit! 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Redleg Romeo .. Ripper Bravo Two.  Check your fire, check fire, you're short on our pos!  I say again, check your fuckin' fire! ... From Registration point, add one five zero, left five zero, fire for effect! 
 Move it!  Move it! 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) They're coming ... 
 ELIAS (CONT'D) Stagger yourselves across this line, shoot anything that moves.  They'll be coming from here. 
 (team leader) Gotcha. 
 One of them gets through it's curtains. 
 Where you going? 
 Down along the river 'bout 100 metres, 'case they try to flank us there.  Third Platoon's coming up on our rear so watch for 'em. 
 I'll go with you. 
 No ... I move faster alone. (a grin) 
 (stringing them out) Okay Crawford - over here.  Taylor - down twenty yards behind that tree. 
 Let's move back, link up with Three.  Let the arty do a little work. (to Ace on radio, ignoring Wolfe) Push Two Alpha and Two Charlie.  Tell'em to haul ass and re-group at the church.  Tell'em NOT to fire. (Ace transmits) 
 What about Elias?  We pull back they'll be cut off. He needs cover fire. 
 (looks at him like he's stupid) I'll get him. (with a threatening undertone) You just haul ass too lootenant. (going, to Ace) ... don't send Bravo Three up till I get back to the CP.  Now move out, all of you. 
 
!!!!! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) (ecstatic) Yeah!  I got two of them fuckers ... 
 I got one ... 
 ... See them go down?  Like fuckin' target practice man, fuck you Charlie!!  Ho Chi Minh sucks dead dick! ... Crawford! (sees him, stunned) 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Oh man!  ... man! 
 Looks like a lung babe.  But you're gonna be all right, you only need one of them fuckers. 
 Oh shit man I never thought I'd get hit, I was ... (gagging) 
 Stay cool.  We gonna carry you out. 
 RHAH (CONT'D) Sarge, 'bout five gooks tried to ... 
 Where's Elias? 
 ... came through right over there.  We got three of them, we ... 
 Didn't you hear the arty shift?  We're pulling back. Get your wounded man and get the fuck back to the church.  Get going. 
 (indicating jungle) ... but 'Lias is still out there. 
 I'll get him.  You get the man in, Taylor (indicating Crawford) NOW.  Or I'll Article 15 both your asses.  Move! 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Move it, MOVE IT! 
 Taylor! 
 Elias is dead.  Join up with the platoon.  Move it. 
 (shocked) He's dead!  Where?  ... You saw him? 
 Yeah.  Back about 100 metres.  He's dead, now get going, the gooks are all over the fuckin' place. 
 MOVE IT MOVE IT MOVE IT. 
 Man, you gonna be in Japan this time tomorrow, Big Harold. 
 Yeah, I'se lucky dis time, what's a leg to get the fuck outta here ... (at the NVA) Eat ma shit, you motherfuckers! 
 He killed him.  I know he did.  I saw his eyes when he came back in ... 
 (puffing on his bowl) How do you know the dinks didn't get him.  You got no proof man. 
 Proof's in the eyes.  When you know you know.  You were there Rhah - I know what you were thinking.  I say we frag the fucker.  Tonight. 
 I go with dat, an eye for an eye man. 
 Right on, nothing wrong with Barnes another shot in the head wouldn't cure. 
 (to Chris) Shit boy you been out in the sun too long.  You try that, he'll stick it right back up your ass with a candle on it. 
 Then what do you suggest big shot? 
 (to Chris) I suggest you watch your own asses cause Barnes gonna be down on ALL OF 'EM. 
 How you figger that? 
 Shit man - Human nature. 
 Then you jes gonna forget 'bout Elias and all the good times we done had?  Right in here. 
 He dugged his own grave. 
 (correcting) He dug it. 
 He DUGGED it too. 
 Fuck this shit! 
 You guys trying to cure the headache by cutting off the head.  'Lias didn't ask you to fight his battles and if there's a Heaven - and god, I hope so - I know he's sitting up there drunk as a fuckin' monkey and smokin' shit cause HIS PAINS HE DONE LEFT DOWN HERE. Baaaaaaaaa! (a vehement movement of his head) 
 You're wrong man!  Any way you cut it Rhah, Barnes is a murderer. 
 Right on. 
 I remember first time you came in here Taylor you telling me how much you admired that bastard. 
 I was wrong. 
 (snorts) Wrong?  You ain't EVER been right - 'bout nothing. And dig this you assholes and dig it good!  Barnes been shot 7 times and he ain't dead, that tell you something?  Barnes ain't meant to die.  Only thing can get Barnes ... is Barnes! 
 (soft) Talking 'bout killing? 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Y'all experts?  Y'all know about killing? 
 BARNES (CONT'D) You pussies gotta smoke this shit so's you can hide from reality? ... (smokes again) Me I don't need that shit.  I AM reality. 
 BARNES (CONT'D) There's the way it oughta be and there's the way it is.  'Lias he was full of shit, 'Lias was a crusader - I got no fight with a man does what he's told but when he don't, the machine breaks down, and when the machine breaks down, WE break down ... and I ain't gonna allow that.  From none of you.  Not one ... 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Y'all loved Elias, want to kick ass, I'se here - all by my lonesome, nobody gonna know.  Five you boys 'gainst me? (pause, very soft) Kill me. 
 BARNES (CONT'D) I SHIT on all o' you. 
 KILL YOU MOTHERFUCKER!!! 
 EASY BARNES, EASY MAN!!! 
 RHAH (CONT'D) You'll do dinky dau in Long Binh Barnes.  Ten years - kill an enlisted.  Ten years, Barnes, just climb the walls.  DON'T DO IT ... 
 (contemptuous) Death?  What do you guys know about it? 
 (V.O.) They sent us back into the valley the next day - about 2,000 metres from Cambodia - into a battalion perimeter.  Alpha Company had been hit hard the day before by a sizeable force and Charlie Company had been probed that night.  There were other battalions in the valley, we weren't the only ones but we knew we were going to be the bait to lure them out.  And somewhere out there was the entire 141st NVA Regiment. 
 ... they caught 'em last night pulling some shit on Charlie Company.  They found maps on 'em, man - got a friend at Battalion says they had every fuckin' foxhole here fixed on it.  Distances, treelines, our claymores, trip wires, everything?  I shit you not. 
 Shit, so what the fuck are we doing here?  Why don't we move ... (no answer) Bad vibes, man, I got bad vibes here.  Where are the new guys they provided us anyway. 
 I heard we's in Cambodia right fuckin' NOW. 
 You kidding man ... 
 You wanted to see me sir? 
 Jackson, looks like you got Elias' squad now. 
 Squad?  I didn't know we was still referring to this platoon in terms of squads sir. (with a snicker for Ace and Doc) 
 (indicating a rough drawing in the dirt) These two holes are yours ... 
 Begging your pardon Lieutenant but my holes are far enuff apart you could run a regiment through there and nobody'd see them - I got five live bodies left ... 
 I don't want to hear your problems, Jackson.  You'll get new men any day.  Time being you make do like everybody else. 
 Hey Lieutenant I didn't ask for this job, I ... 
 (leaves) I don't want to hear about it Jackson. 
 (amazed, looking off at him) You don't want to hear about it? 
 (turns) That's right.  I don't want to hear about it 'cause to tell you the truth, I don't give a shit okay ... I just don't give a shit anymore. 
 (shrugs, to himself) Right ... 
 (passing Ace digging the CP hole) This is one time we could sure use Elias. 
 (to Doc) 'Some people say I'm wishy washy.  Maybe I am.  Maybe I ain't.' 
 Glad I ain't going with 'em.  Somewhere out dere man is de Beast and he hungry tonight ... Man, what a bummer.  Ten days and a wakeup and I'm still dealing wid this shit - fuckin' etcetera and ad infinitum man ... 
 KING (CONT'D) (noticiing Chris' silence) What's the matter wid you? ... How come you ain't writing no more?  You was always writing something home.  Looks like youse half a bubble off, Taylor. 
 KING (CONT'D) What about your folks?  That grandma you was telling me about? ... 
 KING (CONT'D) Girl? 
 KING (CONT'D) Must be somebody? 
 ... there's nobody. 
 (shifts, uncomfortable) You been smoking too much shit babe.  Gotta control that.  Takes a man down ... I remember when you first come out to the bush, you was straight as a ... 
 Who gives a shit! 
 (soft) 'People say I'm the life of the party cause I tell a joke or two although I may be laughing loud and hardy deep inside I'm blue ...' 
 Y'ever get caught in a mistake King and you just can't get out of it? 
 Way out of anything, man.  Just keep your pecker up, your powder dry, the worm WILL turn.  How many days you short? 
 Not just me ... it's the way the whole thing works. People like Elias get wasted and people like Barnes just go on making up rules any way they want and what do we do, we just sit around in the middle and suck on it!  We just don't add up to dry shit. 
 Does a chicken have lips?  Whoever said we did, babe. Make it outta here, it's all gravy, every day of the rest of your life man - gravy.  Oh shit, superlifer! 
 O'NEILL Get your gear together, King, your orders just come through. 
 (speechless) You jokin' me man? ... shit, you ain't kidding! Cocksucker.  Oh wowww ... the lifers made a mistake, they cuttin' me some slack, they cutting me some slack Taylor! (dances) 
 O'NEILL Collect your shit and move out King.  You got 10 minutes make the last chopper.  Cee ess em oh or your ass is mine. (to Taylor) Francis is coming over. (hurries off) 
 Hey that's great King, that's great ... you take it on home for me, you tell 'em King ... got your address right?  You know where you can reach men, man.  Anytime! 
 I gotta didi man.  Don't wanna miss that chopper. I'll send you a postcard.  After I get me some.  I'll send you some tapes too man.  This new guy Jimi Hendrix man, whew ... you okay Taylor?  Just 'member take it easy now, don't think too much, don't be a fool, no such thing as a coward cause it don't mean nuthin.  Jes keep on keepin' on.  Okay my man ... 
 I'll walk you out ... 
 Rumor goin' round is they got tanks.  Soviet shit, T- 34's ... (pause) Hey Rodriguez, don't you ever say nothing? 
 (a thick Mexican accent) What do you want me to say, it's all the same ol' shit. 
 So what's the problem? 
 O'NEILL Says he can't walk. 
 Shit.  Get your boots on Martin, next time I catch you putting mosquito repellant on your fuckin' feet I'm gonna courtmartial your nigger ass. 
 (cracks) DEN COURTMARTIAL ME MOTHERFUCKAH, bust my ass, send me to fucking Long Binh, do your worst but I ain't walking no more.  De white man done got his last klik outta me.  Get some chuck dude to hump this shit. 
 (suddenly soft) Get me that centipede, O'Neill. 
 O'NEILL Sarge? 
 Yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard I found in the ammo crate.  I'm gonna put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk. 
 O'NEILL (understanding) Oh yeah, right away Sarge. 
 No!  Wait!  I'll walk, fuck you I'll walk, I don't need this shit!  I don't need this shit! 
 Fucking pussy, fuck it Sarge, I gotta have him on my hole? 
 O'NEILL Uh ... Bob.  Like to speak to you.  Take a minute. 
 (stops) Yeah, what is it? 
 O'NEILL (shuffles, reluctant) Bob, I got Elias' R&R ... It's coming up in 3 days. Going to Hawaii.  See Patsy. (pause, no reaction from Barnes) I never asked you for a break, I was hoping you ... you'd send me in on the chopper with King ... what do you say Chief? (a friendly punch) 
 I can't do that for you, Red ... We need every swinging dick in the field.  Sorry bout that ... (starts to go) 
 O'NEILL (pleads) Hey Bob, come on!  Talk to me hunh, it's your friend Red, I'm only asking you for three days chief ... 
 I'm talking to you Red and I'm telling you no.  Get back to your position. 
 O'NEILL (grabs him, desperate) Bob, I gotta bad feeling about this, I ... I'm telling you I got a bad feeling, man, I don't think I'm gonna make it .. y'know what I mean? 
 (quietly) ... everybody gotta die sometime Red ... Get back to your foxhole. 
 Got a light? 
 Uh sure ... 
 ... later. 
 ... y'know some of the things we done, I don't feel like we done something wrong but sometimes y'know I get this bad feeling.  Not all that shit the Chaplain's jamming up our ass 'bout the Good Lord ... just a fucking bad feeling, y'know what I mean? Don't know why.  I told the Chaplain the truth is I really like it here.  You do what you want, nobody fucks with you.  Only worry you got's dying and if dat happens you won't know about it anyway.  So what the fuck ... (chuckles) 
 (pissed now) Fuck! I gotta be on this hole with YOU man.  I just know I shouldna come! 
 Don't you worry bout a thing Junior, you with Audie Murphy here, my man ... 
 Bravo Three Alpha!  Send me a grid.  Send me a grid, over! 
 We're pinned down sir, they're in the fucking trees! The trees - 
 OK, Three Alpha, calm down now, son.  I'm gonna get you a fire mission ASAP.  Smoke'll be first ... 
 (panic) Lieutenant's dead sir, radioman look dead sir, I don't know where the map is Captain!  They're all around us sir.  They're moving!  Hundreds of em!  I can hear em talking gook!!!  Jesus Christ! 
 (calming him) ... Just spot the smoke son and tell me where to shift.  We'll get you out of there.  Just hang tough and tell me where the rounds hit, over. 
 Bravo Three Alpha six.  How bout those rounds son? Can you adjust fire? (waits) Three Alpha, if you can't talk, just key the handset twice over. (waits) 
 Oh shit me I wish I was back in Memphis now, oooh baby this is gonna be a motherfucker! 
 Trip flares! ... Rodriguez's hole. 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) RPGs!  Shit! 
 (crying) MEDIC!!  DOC!  DOC! 
 (a fierce whisper) Taylor!  Francis! 
 Over here! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Rhah!  What's going on.  Rodriguez's hole just got ... 
 (gets his breath) Okay, here it is - one, we got gooks in the fuckin' perimeter. 
 Oh shit!  Dat's it, dat's it ... 
 They got through Alpha Company!  Anything behind you don't identify itself, blow it away.  Two - air strike's coming in.  They gonna lay snake and nape right on the perimeter so stay tight in your holes and don't leave 'em. 
 RHAH (CONT'D) ... they're probing us, they gonna go up and down this line all night trying to get through.  Stay cool ... I'll be back ... 
 Hold it! (loud whisper) WHO IS IT! 
 Come on man! 
 No! 
 DON'T SHOOT!  DON'T SHOOT! 
 It's the ambush! (calling out) In here, man!  Hurry. 
 Water!  Water! 
 (points) Back there. 
 You guys get outta here!  They're right on my ass and they ain't stoppin' for shit! 
 Taylor, let's di-di man! 
 You go. 
 2 Charlie Company reports hand to hand on the perimeter sir.  Three holes are down.  They need help! 
 1 (handing him the transmitter) Bravo Six sir. 
 Hey you boys!  Which Company you ... 
 #3 
! 
 #4 THE BUNKER! 
 3 
!! 
 Oh no! 
 There! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) (to Francis, a whisper) Out of the hole!  Fast! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) (a fierce whisper) Goddamit Francis!  Move your fucking ass.  Now ... THEY GONNA BLOW IT! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) DIE YOU MOTHERFUCKERS!!! YAAAAAAAAA!!! 
 (joining in the frenzy) 
 YAAAAAHHHH!!!!  KILLLLL!!! 
 (charging off into the jungle) DIE YOU MOTHERFUCKERS!!! 
 Come on MOTHERFUCKERS, COME ON!!! 
 BUNNY (CONT'D) (laying out more fire) Come on you can do better than that! 
 Fuck this shit!  I ain't dyin' in no white man's war! Ise didi-ing this motherfuckah! 
 (yelling after him) Get back here you gutless shit ... 
 Diiiiikaaeeeeeee! 
 Negative contact.  Can't raise Barnes, Two Bravo, Two Charlie, nothin'! 
 Get me Six! 
 It's Doc! 
 They're coming through all over!  I can't ... I can't do ... 
 Where's Barnes! 
 I think he's dead ... it's awful, they're all dying. 
 Six! 
 We've been overrun Captain, we're pulling back. Over! 
 (furious voice) Bravo Two, Six!  Goddamit where the hell you plannin' to pull back to!  They're all over the perimeter.  Be advised Lieutenant, you WILL hold in place and you will FIGHT and that means YOU, Lieutenant.  Out! 
 You're an asshole Lieutenant, you know that. 
 #5 Captain, Third Battalion Armoured's on its way with tracks 'bout 2 kliks west! 
 (ignores it, into radio) Snakebite leader, Ripper Bravo Six, we're gonna need you soonest be advised I've got zips in the wire down here, over! 
 PILOT'S VOICE (distorted high frequency) Roger your last Bravo Six, Snakebite lead we can't run it any closer.  We're hot to trot and packing snape and nape but we're bingo fuel.  It's your call, Six actual, Over. 
 Snakebite leader, Bravo Six, for the record, it's my call.  Dump everything you got left ON MY POS.  I say again, I want all you're holding INSIDE the perimeter.  It's a lovely war.  Bravo Six Actual and Out. 
 PILOT'S VOICE Roger your last Bravo Six.  We copy it's your call. Get em in their holes down there.  Hang tough, Bravo Six we are coming cocked for treetops.  Whiskey to Echo ... Snakebite Two, this is lead.  Last pass on zero niner.  Watch my smoke to target, expend all remaining.  Follow my trace ... 
 Barnes! 
 CHRIS (CONT'D) Nooooooooo! 
 Get me a Medic will ya.  Go on ... 
 BARNES (CONT'D) Fuck you in hell ... 
 (to Dog) Bozo!  Get back here! 
 #1 You alone Sarge? 
 O'NEILL Fuck yeah.  They all left me, bunch of fuckin' faggots. 
 #2 Man, you gonna get yoself a silver star. 
 O'NEILL Fuck the silver star.  You got any booze? 
 (to the powder) Yeah, that's good shit ... 
 (into radio, exhausted) - 37 U.S. KIA, 122 wounded and still counting. Estimate 500 Victor Charlie KIA, 22 wounded and still counting.  Over. 
 Hey Taylor, you okay man? 
 Yeah.  How 'bout you? 
 Jes' fine man, jes fine!  Ain't never felt better! Both of us two timers man, we're out. (gives him a slap as he goes by) See you at the hospital man, we gonna get high-high yessir ... (goes off) 
 (to Chris) That's your ride man, you ready? 
 (tries a smile) You bet. 
 You got Second Platoon Sergeant. 
 O'NEILL (reflexively) Yes sir - 
 Baaaaaaaaa!!!!!! 
 (V.O.) 
