 February 17, 1989 
: "1983" 
 (calls back to house) Daddy! I don't want you to go! 
 
 (calls to Sonny) Your father has work to do, Sonny ... but he'll be home soon. And we'll all watch it together. 
 You promise, Dad? 
 I promise. 
 Daddy ... (very serious) Daddy, is E.T. gonna win? 
 He's got my vote. 
 (tight to Storm) I want you back early. Tonight's the night those little starlets are crawling all over town. 
 Don't worry. I'll beat 'em off with a stick. 
 Daddy (wants him to stay) What about my joke? 
 Knock knock. 
 Who's there? 
 Old lady. 
 Old lady who? 
 I didn't know you could yodel. 
 (to Storm) Take my advice: Don't give up your day job. 
. 
 (into handset) Karl ... wake up. 
 (into radio) I'm here, Mase. Where are you 
 On the Harbor ... south of Torrance. I got Calabrese right in my gunsights. 
 
 If I had a Sidewinder missile, I could save the taxpayers a lot of money. 
 
 (V.O.) Here he goes. I'm shutting down the radio, partner. 
 65 
 (V.O.) Keep off the skyline, amigo. (by the way) Lou Gossett just won Best Supporting. 
 STORM'S CAR 
 
 Let's go, boys.     I'm missing the Oscars. 
 
 
 (O.S.) (to himself, softly) I know you, Calabrese. But who are these mystery guests? 
 
 WHARF - CONSPIRATORS 
 -- Murder is a serious business, my friend. And an expensive one. 
 Slowly ... slowly. Always with caution. 
 All I'm counseling is a little patience. The man is public. He's in the paper every day. 
 
 We'll do it. 
 
 (to himself, soft but intense) Who are you? Get out of those shadows -- 
 SHACK - CONSPIRATORS 
 ANGLE - STORM 
 LOOKOUT #1 (MIKEY) 
 
 
 (re: the fairy) A quarter's a quarter. 
 WHARF - SHACK 
 Mikey! Quit playing with yourself back there. (no response) Mikey -- 
 
 
 CONSPIRATORS' POV 
 (to Calabrese) Whoever that sonofabitch is, I don't want him to get an hour older. 
 He won't, Mr. Assemblyman. 
 CALABRESE'S LIMO 
 Karl -- Storm on three. 
 You throwing away dimes now? 
 This doesn't go out over the air, pal. For your ears only. 
 (getting out note pad) What's going down? 
 Calabrese. I just got his ass -- on candid camera. 
 You're full of shit! 
 Him and his gorilla Vitale. I got film and audio on both of them, laying out a hit. Two other guys I couldn't make out, but I'm sure they'll come up on the film. This is a big one, Carlito. Our own academy award. You ready? 
 (taking notes) Shoot. 
 I want you to track down Morgensteen right now. If he's with that meter maid from Pico, crank her legs apart and pry him out of there. 
 He ain't gonna be happy. 
 Screw his happiness. Tell him I want the lab open at six-thirty tomorrow morning. I want this film pushed to the max, and nobody but us to know about it. I know we got something here. 
 You bringing it in tonight? 
 I promised my kid I'd be home. I'll be at the lab before dawn. 
 How ya doing? (looking around) Got any champagne? 
 Right next to the caviar. (winks; points) There's some in the big cooler. 
. 
 You're not watching the Oscars? 
 The Oscars?    I hate the Oscars. 
 Who needs the goddam movies? I get it all in here every night. (indicates his view from behind counter) Horror. Sex. Freaks. Violence. And I ain't gotta pay no four bucks. 
 (to Counter Man) You got a phone back there? 
 Why ? 
 (orders him) Punch nine-one-one. 
 Sonsofbitches! You creeps ripped me off two weeks ago! 
 Shut up. 
 Take it, man.   Take my life's savings. 
 Where is a cop when you goddam need one? (to Punks, threatening) I got half a mind to come out there and teach you sonofabitch -- 
 Now you got half a mind, old man. 
 What are you grinning at, pindejo? 
 We ... ell ... there's only three of you and you only got one shot left. 
 (to Punk, calmly) I know what you're thinking.    I have this big shotgun and all   you have is that little icepick.    Mine's bigger than yours. It's not    fair. 
 Still not fair? 
 Don't wait for the blindfold, maricon. 
 #3 (clutching the ice pick tightly) Chinga tu madre! 
 #1 You were armed, Storm -- why didn't you just use your gun? 
 I just got these new glazer bullets. You know they're almost a buck a pop now? 
 I know that voice. 
 Wish I could sleep like that. 
 Maybe I can help you. 
 Is that for me, Dad? 
 You faker. 
 E.T. lost. 
 Who won? 
 I dunno.   Candy. 
 Candy? 
 (from doorway) Mahatma Candy. He was a great man. 
 (very gently) You know why E.T. lost? 
 Why? 
 Cause they only let grownups vote. If kids had voted -- 
 (cheered by this) -- We would have gave E.T. everything! 
 We would have given him everything. 
 Yeah. 
 (wants him to stay) Daddy -- tell me a knock-knock. 
 You know the rules. (pulls covers up) One joke a day. I have to make 'em last. 
 There's blood on your jacket. 
 It's okay.   It's not mine. 
 If people knew how sweet you are, they'd never be scared of you. 
 I'm not scared of you. 
 Maybe you should be. 
 (closer, increasing passion) Why? Are you planning on doing something to me? 
 A couple of things crossed my mind, in the car coming home. 
 (in mid-kiss) Door's open. 
 (frightened) What? 
 STORM'S POV 
: 
: 
 (re: Big Man's wound) Man. 
 (he's tough) Get to work. 
 (patting Storm's pants pockets) You got the tapes? 
 (re: what he grabbed from the table) I got a shitload of 'em. 
 O'MALLEY - NIGHT 
 O'MALLEY Jesus Christ. 
 O'MALLEY 
 (emotional) knew Storm from when I was City Attorney ... and he was a young homicide detective - (choking back tears) We worked on... cases ... together ... (can't go on) I'm sorry ... sorry -- 
 (V.O.) That was Assemblyman Vernon Trent, deeply moved by the loss of an officer he knew, (etc.). 
 What makes people do this? (in tears, agony) Will you tell me? Will someone please tell me?!! 
 O'MALLEY (calls) Holland! Captain Holland! 
 O'MALLEY 
 O'MALLEY (whisper, full of menace) Let me tell you something, you piss- ant. That man in there was the cleanest I ever knew -- with more honor and guts than this whole department put together. If I ever hear you say fuck all like that again, I'll lose my shield to put you where you belong. 
 (hostile) What the hell's I.A. doing up at this hour? 
 O'MALLEY Taking over the show. 
 This is Homicide, not Internal Affairs. 
 O'MALLEY We got two cops down, with money and drugs all over the place. This is straight from the commissioner. 
 You and Storm were tight, O'Malley. I'm sorry. 
 O'MALLEY He was the most unstoppable sonofabitch I ever knew. 
 Well. 
 
 E.R. Excuse me, are you with the police? 
 O'MALLEY (dully, showing 
) Lieutenant O'Malley. What've you got, Doc? 
 E.R. I've got a live cop, is what I've got. 
 E.R. The paramedics called it wrong, so did my people at first. Look... it happens. The man had no vital signs. With all the blood and excitement, I almost missed it myself. But we have a pulse now. Your man is alive, Lieutenant. 
 INSERT - VEST 
 O'MALLEY 
 O'MALLEY Who else knows he isn't dead? 
 E.R. No one ... just the people in her. But -- 
 O'MALLEY I want to see each one of them before they leave the room. No one else comes in as of right now. 
 E.R. Hold on.     I don't think you -- 
 O'MALLEY (eyeball to eyeball) Mason Storm is going to vanish, Doctor -- and you're gonna help make it happen. Until he can give us some answers, the deader he is, the safer he is. 
 (V.O.) -- The governor today appointed dashing L.A. Assemblyman Vernon Trent to the Senate seat vacated by the tragic death of -- 
 You're early again. 
 (deadpan) You won't report me, will you? 
 (re: shift report) Inquiring minds want to know -- 
 -- Dr. Cannon ordered a glucose drip on Jimmy See. Mack's E.E.G. monitor's developing a nice electronic hiccup -- and your boyfriend... (indicating Storm) ... turned his head. 
 (electrified) He did? 
 (excited too) I thought he was going to sit up. I almost shit! 
 (gently, with compassion and hope) -- Can you hear me, John Doe? I don't care what the doctors say, I know my words are reaching you somehow. (MORE) 
 ANDY (CONT'D) I'm going to  talk to you tonight... and tomorrow  night ... and the night after that.  I'm going to keep talking to you till  you come back -- 
 Yogi said it ain't over till it's over. Till the fat lady sings. There's life in you, J.D., I feel it. I'll never give up on you, and you'll never give up on yourself -- 
 Besides ... you've got so much to live for. 
 Sorry.   I won't be long. 
 How's the sleeping prince? 
 Still sleeping. (serious) It's bad enough when it's old people. But a young handsome guy -- 
 Don't let this job get you, honey. It's eight hours, not twenty-four. Get out, meet somebody ... get laid -- 
 (with a grin) You can have my orgasms, Martha. I'll make up for 'em later. 
 (in b.g., weakly, directly behind) -- Nurse ... 
 Internal affairs. Detective Sergeant Jones. 
 My name is Andrea Simpson. I'm calling from U.C.I. Medical Center. I'd like to speak with (reads from card) Captain O'Malley. 
 What is this in regard to, please? 
 I have a John Doe coma patient, code access 461 zebra, with instructions to notify upon any change in condition. 
 What is the change? 
 (with enthusiasm) The patient has regained consciousness. 
 (urgent) Nolan. Get Holland at home ... right now. (back to Andy on phone) I'm sorry, Ms. Simpson. Captain O'Malley is no longer with this division. Let me take your information. Please ... contact no one else on this matter. 
 Miss ... please ... they won't tell me ... think I'm too disorient -- 
 This is U.C.I. Medical Center. You've been in a coma. Your charts go back for seven years. 
 (staggered) Seven... years? 
 Who ... who knows I'm awake? 
 (innocent enthusiasm) It's all over the hospital. You're the first one that's come out of a coma of this duration. You'll probably be on the news! (beat) You'll be famous! 
 (struggles to sit up; fails) Listen to me carefully -- (reads her name tag) -- Andy. I don't have the strength to talk much. I'm a cop. My wife ... family ... murdered. That's how I got here. If you don't get me out ... you and I ... good chance ... both be dead. 
 Please -- you're in no danger here. 
 Goddamit -- (urgent but weak) can't stay here. Listen to me - 
 I'll have one of the aides take you down the hall for hydrotherapy. It'll help you relax. 
 No -- 
 Listen... I've got work to do. You're my cutest patient, but you're not my only one. 
 ANGLE - DOCTOR 
 Excuse me, Doctor. I have to check everyone on the upper floors. (comes forward, no suspicion) Can I just get your I.D. -- 
 DANNY'S POV 
 
 (dashes up) Russ!   Russ, are you -- 
 
 
 
 ELEVATORS - STORM 
 Sonofabitch! 
 STORM'S ELEVATOR 
 My God! 
 (hoarse, weak) -- Help me ... 
 ANGLE - GURNEY 
 I'm sorry!    Sorry -- 
 
 
 
 "OJAI." 
 (to group, finishing up) Six gang-related murders in one week. We're going to put a stop to it -- and we're going to start right here! 
 I'll be talking with the mayor. We'll have a statement shortly -- 
 (to Holland, furious) How much dirt do I have to shovel into this goddam Storm's grave? (MORE) 
 TRENT (CONT'D) Jesus Christ! (turns to Ford) The man is flat out on a stretcher and you still can't kill him! 
 Holland -- plaster his ass with slime in the press. Put a tail on every person he knows -- 
 We know how to do our job, Senator. 
 Then start showing it. (to Ford, Dunne) I'm starring in that sonofabitch's home movie -- and the Oscar is thirty years in the slammer. He's toast, understand? 
 (to crowd) We're going to end violence in this state -- and you can take that to the bank! 
 Seven years. 
 (V.O.) (from TV) -- Stay tuned for more of: Best of Geraldo! 
 Geraldo? 
 (V.O.) (from TV) Senator Vernon Trent promises:   No new taxes! 
 (V.O.) (from TV) And you can take that to the bank! 
 (V.O.) (from TV) -- If you want to sleep with me ... you better wear a Pharoah. 
 (V.O.) (from TV) Pharoah condoms. The only safer sex is no sex at all! 
 
 (into phone) can't come in to work, are you crazy?! I can't even go to my apartment! People are dead, Martha ... no, I can't tell you where I am ... you're better off not knowing -- 
 (into phone) I am freaking A.W.O.L. I mean, what am I gonna do with this guy -- (pacing, anxious) I want to help him... my God, he needs it ... but it's all over the T.V., he's some kind of crooked cop with drugs and murder and -- 
 It's okay -- I'm here, I'm with you. 
 (into phone) Yeah,   that Esposito. The ignorant fuck   who's broadcasting the news right   now. (listens) Tell   him it's Storm. Mason Storm. 
 (to Andy) I can't stay here. They'll trace you from the hospital in two -- 
 (cuts him off) I told you -- no one knows I'm here! I'm house-sitting... (out of patience, frustrated and frightened) This place belongs to a doctor friend of my parents. He's in China now, on research... won't be back for six months. The medical center only has my apartment address. Even my friends don't have this number. (beat) Will you believe me?! We're safe here. 
 (into phone) Esposito? (furious) Listen, you sonofabitch -- 
 We'll find your friend O'Malley. We'll just keep phoning ... 
 Listen.     I'm getting out of here. 
 (knows he has no chance) I'll buy tickets to that. 
 I just need some food -- and a few days to get my strength. 
 Days?   Try a few weeks. 
 You helped me, okay? I'm grateful. But every day you keep helping puts you in more danger. 
 (deadpan) Danger is my middle name. 
 I've been dead, Andy.      You wouldn't like it. 
 Hey, hey -- I don't think you get the picture here. Your muscles have been getting electronic stimulation at the hospital, but it's not like actually being up and bearing weight. 
 You're the one who doesn't get the picture. (MORE) 
 STORM (CONT'D) First of all, I ain't no fucking invalid! And second, I don't have time -- 
 
 
 (next to bed) Mata Hari -- at your service. 
 Just some herbs I need for my recovery. 
 No problem. This is on my list for Safeway every day. 
 (re: himself) That bad ... huh? 
 I'll be in the other room. 
 "COMA COP. " 
 (V.O.) (on TV) -- This reporter was contacted personally by the now-infamous 'Coma Cop'... fugitive officer Mason Storm -- who until days ago had languished in a seven-year coma. 
 (V.O.) (from TV) Storm gave me his word that he is innocent of all charges preferred against him in the press -- and that he has access to indisputable proof of this. Battling the atrophy caused by seven years of hospitalization, Storm is struggling even now to regain the strength that will enable him to come forward with this evidence. He has promised me and the K.A.B.C. audience a first look at his alleged proof. 
 
 (indicates Esposito on TV) I want 24-hour surveillance on this sonofabitch. 
 MARTHA (WOMAN) (responds to interrogation) I told you -- Andy's out of town. I just came by to pick up her cat. 
 Where out of town is Andy? 
 I don't know. (losing patience) Look, I've been questioned by you cops half a dozen times since Tuesday. I'm getting a little tired of it. (beat) You need a warrant to walk in on someone like this. Get the hell out. 
 Then I'll get out. 
 We'll ask you again, Martha:     Where is Miss Simpson? 
 I'm calling your superior officers to report this. I want both your names and shield numbers. 
 Help?   Help me! 
 
. 
 That's enough! I don't care how many needles you stick in yourself or how much ginseng root you eat ... you have to sleep if you're going to recover. 
 I slept for seven years? 
 That's an order! 
 Jesus -- what a patient! 
 -- You can't  compare blood pressure readings now  with when you were in a coma. It's   not going to give a true measure  -- 
 What's this reading?     555 over four digits -- 
 That's crazy -- 
 It's Martha's chicken scratches. Even she can't read 'em. 
 I'll tell you what it is.     It's a phone number. 
 (V.O.) (on phone) Redondo Beach Retirement Villa 
 (into phone) I'm. sorry ... maybe I have the wrong number. I'm looking for Kevin O'Malley. 
 O'Malley?   There's no O'Malley here. 
 My name is Phyllis O'Connor. I'm with the pension board of the Los Angeles Police Department. We have a misplaced check here for Captain O'Malley ... 
 A check? (pause) Well, listen... there's a big turnover here, people are dying all the time, I never know who's in what bed. Can you leave me your number? 
 (into phone) I'm sorry, we're not allowed to do that. 
." 
 Mrs. Wade, I'll be honest with you -- I'm not from the police pension board. My name is Andrea Simpson, I'm a nurse from U.C.I. Medical Center. 
 You probably have no connection to this, and what I'm about to say (MORE) 
 ANDY (CONT'D) will sound completely absurd to you. (beat) My patient is a police officer named Mason Storm. He's in trouble and needs desperately to contact his friend, Captain O'Malley. If you have any idea how to contact Captain O'Malley, please help me. 
 I can't do that. 
 Can I phone you? 
 MRS. WADE (pleasant; innocuous) Of course, my dear. 
 
 (pointedly) This is my number, Mrs. O'Malley. 
 MRS. WADE (correcting her) You mean Mrs. Wade. O'Malley is the person you're looking for. 
 Yes ... you're right.    I'm sorry. 
 Oh, I'm sorry ... I didn't mean to interrupt. I, ah, well, I was just passing by and ... 
 MIRROR - STORM 
 
 (dead) Thanks. 
 Please. 
 I'm sorry -- (wracked with emotion) Sorry. I -- (MORE) 
 STORM (CONT'D) (another furious punch) Why am I still in this fucking cage?! What's wrong with my body? Why won't it heal faster?!! 
 Mason, please (wants to ease his pain) I love you. 
 Don't say that! 
 Why not?! 
 Because I can't love you! Don't you see? It's seven years to anyone else. But it's only days for me. 
 How can I be with you ... how can I want you and take you, when -- 
 You seduced me. You came in here, looking that way, knowing just what the hell you were doing -- 
 (defiant) Yeah, I knew. What of it? I wanted you -- 
 You have no right to want me! 
 Then who does?!     I've risked my life for you -- 
 Who asked you to? Not me! 
 You haven't stopped me! 
 Then don't risk it! Don't do shit for me! I don't need you! 
 
 
 (into phone) Pick up, Martha ... Pick up. 
 Get a hold of yourself, Andy. 
 (into mirror, sarcastic) You're really beautiful. 
 (calling out) Martha! Martha, it's me -- 
 (tentatively) You looking for Martha Coe? 
 Yes... yes -- 
 You haven't seen the news? (beat) She's dead. They shot her in the back... over in Westwood. 
 (staring at her) You look like the woman's picture on T.V... the one whose house they shot her at -- 
 (into two-way mike) You called it right, Max. The bitch showed. I'm on her ass right now -- (pulls out to follow her) Mount up, boys. Two to one she leads us right to our boy Storm. 
 That's grand theft, auto. 
 (with emotion) O'Malley. 
 O'MALLEY (O.S.) -- It's Sonny, all right. Believe how big he got? He can throw a football forty yards -- 
 O'MALLEY He made it to my house, the night you got shot. I hid him, played it out like he was dead -- even staged a funeral, along with Felicia's and yours. They bought it. Everyone believed he was dead. 
 Where is he now? Is he safe? 
 O'MALLEY Trinity School in Ventura. Under my mother's maiden name, Wade. No one has any idea he's your son. 
 (trying to absorb it all) Then that was your mother.   The one Andy found. 
 O'MALLEY Your nurse friend? Yeah. She left your number, I traced you to here. 
 O'Mal ... I can never thank you. 
 O'MALLEY Just seeing your ugly ass alive, that's enough for me. (beat) You wouldn't happen to have a beer around this joint -- 
 I'd give my left arm to see Sonny, just for two minutes. But we can't risk it -- not yet. Not till I get Calabrese. 
 O'MALLEY Calabrese? Calabrese's dead. 
 O'MALLEY Someone blew the shit out of his Cadillac -- six months after you 'died.' 
 (understands) He did his thing -- then they waxed him. 
 The two guys at the pier. They ordered the hit on me too. (beat) And I've got 'em on film. Still in the camera, right where I left it. 
 O'MALLEY -- That night in the hospital, I found the audiotape ... in your vest. I must've listened to it a thousand times -- looking for little quirks in the voices, phrases they repeat ... 
 Where is the tape? 
 O'MALLEY I turned it in for evidence. 
 What happened, O'Mal?    To you? 
 (painful, emotion) I'm sorry, O'Mal. 
 O'MALLEY That night there's a note in my locker -- letting me know it's not an accident. 
 O'MALLEY You know me, Storm. I never would've backed off. But there was Sonny to worry about too. What if they found him? What if they found you? 
 You did the right thing, O'Mal. 
 We'll get 'em, buddy. Every fucking one of them. 
 Get Sonny out of that school, O'Mal. Right now. With me alive and making a stink, whoever's on that film is going to be looking harder than ever for Sonny -- just to get to me. Get him someplace safe ... three thousand miles away if you have to. 
 O'MALLEY Consider it done. 
 I'm going straight to get that film. When you've got Sonny safe, bring me the audiotape. We'll put 'em together and get 'em to Esposito for the T.V. news. That should be quite a show. 
 O'MALLEY You got it, partner. (starts to back out) You can always reach me through my mother. (pauses, shifting to forward) What about that nurse? She still in this? 
 Gone. (with pain) For the best. For her best. 
 O'MALLEY Thanks for the brew! 
 (it all comes together) I'm gonna take you to the bank, Senator Trent. The blood bank. 
 Martha's dead. 
 I won't leave you. Not ever again. 
 I won't let you. 
 O'Malley was here. 
 Here?   How did you find him? 
 You found him. The old lady was his mother. (beat) And Andy ... my son's alive. 
 ANGLE - HALLWAY 
 
 
 I know this fuck. He's a cop! 
 JEEP'S POV 
 
 
 (gun in hand, heading back) Holland! The other man on the dock -- 
 Are you crazy?!     Get us outa here -- 
 STORM'S JEEP 
 O'MALLEY Shit! 
 
 MOVING - DAY 
 What the hell are you doing?! 
 We just made the top of the chart, Andy. Every cop in the city thinks we shot our way out of a legitimate bust -- 
 There are no cops here! 
 Only 'cause they're too stupid. (cocks the slide, ready to go) We need that film and we don't need any bullshit -- 
 Goddamit ... for once, do something the non-violent way! 
 -- Gee, my husband and I aren't really thinking about selling. In fact, we're adding a nursery -- 
 Oh, that's the best time for us to see it! Then when you do come to sell, our office will know the upgrades you've made and we can market your home more effectively. 
 Hell, come on in. Everyone else does. 
 New wall ... fucking yuppies! 
 
 (very cool) Just checking for termites He tucks the camera case under his arm -- takes Andy by the elbow. 
 (to Housewife) Better have this place fumigated -- quick. 
 (to Andy) O'Malley left his mother's place three hours ago -- with the tape. He should be at the school by now, but she hasn't heard back from him. 
 (re: people staring) Fuck the tape. We gotta get this film to Esposito or I'm gonna have a nervous breakdown. 
 (into phone) Mrs. O'Malley. Sorry ... listen. We're outside the Century Plaza now ... the hotel. Right, right. The one in Century City. Okay, listen closely ... (makes this very clear) Tell O'Mal to leave a message for us at the hotel desk. Leave it for Andy ... Andrea Smith. We're not gonna check in, it's too dangerous -- but the desk will hold the message if you tell them we're coming in this afternoon. Got it? Great. You're a champ, Mrs. '0.' 
 You're gonna call Esposito.   But not from this phone. 
 ANGLE - PLAZA 
 
 Hey, hermano!     You want this Jeep? 
 #1 How hot is it? 
 Fuckin' smoking. 
 #1 We got it, my man. 
 (checking watch, nervous) Esposito won't be here yet. He said three-thirty. 
 He'll be there. 
 Try O'Malley one more time. (ready to go) If you hear any lions roaring, haul ass. 
 Don't worry.   I'm a big boy. 
 SECURITY-TYPE Someone wants to talk to you, Storm. 
 What a day, huh? Beautiful! (squints up at Storm, offers bag of nuts) Want some nuts? 
 I haven't got the film on me. 
 (breezily) I didn't think you would. (clears space beside him) Sit down. Take a load off. 
 You do have the film somewhere, I assume? 
 Developed yet? 
 Still in the camera. 
 Good. Very good. That way I know you haven't duplicated it. 
 You know, Trent ... I could rip your fucking throat out before that sonofabitch over there could find the spit to sneeze. 
 Oh, I'm sure you could, Storm. (keeps munching peanuts) But not before one of those other gentlemen, across the way, could put a fifty-caliber slug through your brainpan. 
 Very well placed, Trent. But did you know that human reaction time -- even the fastest -- is between half and three-quarters of second? And in that time, I could easily -- 
 You could kill me now, Storm -- but you'll die two seconds later. 
 You think I care, motherfucker? Just so I get you -- one way or the other. 
 (O.S.) Maybe you care about this, asshole. 
 
 Reach into my jacket pocket. (when Storm hesitates) Reach in! 
 I want that film and the tape. I'll give you three hours. 
 (to Trent) Just tell me one thing. Who pulled the trigger on me and my wife? 
 (sadistic irony) Hate poisons people. Let go of it. 
 (to Storm) I missed your kid seven years ago. But I won't miss tonight. 
 Bring that film, Mr. Storm.    Three hours. 
 (re: power plant) It's fun, huh, kid? Kinda like a field trip. 
 I'm remembering both of you.    And when my dad gets here -- 
 He's gonna have a long trip, kid -- starting from Forest Lawn. 
 By the time this night's over, your old man'll have a use for that phony grave of his. 
 Yeah... yeah -- we'll be right down. 
 (to Sonny) We'll come back with your French fries. (padlocks the door) Don't leave home without us. 
 SONNY'S POV 
 Malley! 
 O'MALLEY It's okay, sport. It's okay... it's okay -- 
 Is that a steering wheel -- or a Winchell's donut? 
 O'MALLEY'S CAR 
 
 
 (displays badge and warrant) I need to check any messages for a Miss Andrea Smith. 
 I'm sorry. I see no slot for that name -- 
 She hasn't checked in yet. But she's due here. Someone might have left a message for her. 
 Here it is. There's just one message. 
 You can put this back now. (significantly) You never saw me. (indicates other cops) You never saw these guys. 
 
 
 
 
 Sonny got away! He's with O'Malley! O'Malley's gat the tape -- they're heading for Union Station. 
 STORM'S POV 
 
 
 
 
 Get the goddam cars! 
 O'MALLEY Be careful you don't get any    of that guck on your sweater ...    let me comb your hair before your    old man gets here, it's stinking    up in the back. 
 Quit it, will you ...    you're making me more nervous than    I am already. My father's going to    be more interested in seeing    the real me. 
 O'MALLEY I think I'm more nervous than you are, kid. We got out of my mother' place about two shakes ahead of the landlord ... know what I mean? 
 My dad'll get 'em. You guys'll nail them all. (beat, thoughtful; then) You think he's gonna like me? 
 O'MALLEY Does a bear dump in the woods? Are you kidding -- he's gonna love you. 
 Let me see the tickets. Did you get us one of those sleeping cars? What time is he getting here anyway? 
 O'MALLEY Soon... 
 (calling out) Hey, O'Malley! Long time no see. (approaching) Taking a trip somewhere? 
 O'MALLEY (to Sonny, under his breath) Make sure your father gets this ... (to Nolan) Yeah. Me and my son are visiting my mother in New Mexico. 
 Your son, huh? That's funny.     He doesn't look much like you -- (to his partner) Does he, Turner? 
 Looks a lot like Mason Storm. 
 Enough of this fucking around.    We want the tape. 
 O'MALLEY Sonny -- run! 
 O'MALLEY (shouts) Go!   Sonny -- get outta here! 
 Get the kid!     He's under the cars! 
 Give us the tape, kid -- and we'll take you home. 
 Fuck you, Jack! 
 O'MALLEY (to Nolan, dying) You don't deserve to wear your badge. with his last failing strength, O'Malley raises the tire iron. Nolan PUMPS him once, square in the chest, killing him. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Where to? 
 That's a good question.   Out of here for sure. 
 
 (to Andy) Where are we going? Who are you? 
 
 It's a long story. You got a few minutes? 
 -- 
 
 (angry, defending himself) What do we have to do, Holland drive a fucking stake through his heart? 
 I'll settle for a bullet. 
 You had him point-blank seven years ago, and he's still walking! 
 He won't be for long. Not with his picture on every T.V. in -- 
 Fuck his picture! Get off your asses -- (waves them to get out of here) Start earning your money! 
 
 How's the action, boys?   Mind if I play? 
 I know what you guys are thinking. You're thinking I couldn't play with this gun in my hand. Right? 
 Well?   Somebody hand me a cue. 
 That's for my wife. Fuck you and die. 
 
 I want Dunne and the others here. That goddamn Storm is nuts enough to come after me -- 
 He's nuts -- but not that nuts. 
 INSERT - NOTE 
 
 
 Sonofabitch. 
 (O.S.) How does it feel to know you're about to die? 
 I'll give you more time than you and Trent gave my wife. 
 STORM'S POV 
. 
 Vernon, oh, Verrrrrnon, where are you? 
 (loud enough for Trent to hear) Let's see ... where could that bad boy be? 
 
 You know, Trent, I want to kill you so bad I can barely contain myself. But I keep thinking that death is far too merciful a fate for you, and that a nice petite white-bread boy like you in a federal penitentiary ... (pause) -- let me put it this way -- I doubt whether you could remain anal retentive for very long. Yeah... I think that's best for you -- 
 (V.O.) Murder is a serious business, my friend. And an expensive one. 
 (V.O.) I'm up to here with caution! This (bleep) lives on alfalfa sprouts and bean curd, he ain't gonna die of natural cause. 
 (V.O.) All I'm counseling is a little patience. The man is public. He's in the paper every day. 
 (V.O.) Yeah? Well, the next time I read about him, it better be in the obituaries. 
 
 Hey ... Seven year Storm! (indicates TV) I told you you'd be famous. 
 
 (laughing) Hey!   Why'd you do that? 
 
 (to Sonny) Knock, knock. 
 Who's there? 
 Boo. 
 Boo who? 
 You don't have to cry about it. (a beat, then) I love you both. 
 
