 (V.O.) (whispering slowly) Once I had a cat, he was the sweetest little guy. Then one day he got sick and died. My heart was broken. My whole body hurt. 
 (V.O.) After that, I saw things differently, everything could be summed up with three simple words... fuck the world. 
 (V.O.) Hey, welcome back to 93.5 WJRC's Halloween monster weekend. I'm Jimmy Ray and I'll be bringing you the oldies, the goldies and sometimes the moldies. The good, the bad and the uglies straight from the WJRC vaults. 
 (V.O.) Hey, kids still trying to decide on the right costume? Well why not head on down to Randall's Penny Save located on Kimball Rd. just off route 1 in Mackin County. Choose from a wide array of ghosts and ghouls, jeepers and creepers... (scary sound effects) ...everything you need for your Halloween needs. 
 (V.O.) Alright let's get back to our monster music marathon with this classic called The Teddy Bear's Picnic. 
 (speaking through voicebox in his throat) I... I got back a stack today. Some nice shots. (holds up a picture of June Wilkinson) See, a good topless June Wilkinson... unfortunately she personalized it... (looking at the photo) to Stucky, love June. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Hmmmmm. 
 Shit, this ain't worth nothing now that my name gotten all over it. I was a fixin' on trading it to Jackie Cobb. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING The retard over at Molly's fruit stand. 
 Yeah, he's all hot on her after he found some of his dad's old nudie books hidden in the basement. He keeps 'em taped inside his school workbook. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Fascinating. 
 That kid is one horny retard. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Christ, ain't they all. All them retards wanna do is fuck and eat. 
 Well, yeah... I think that if you knew him... I mean if you'd understand his urges, shit the guy's like forty or something. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Worse than a fucking rabid baboon. 
 Yeah, I guess, you know next to wacking his weasel his other favorite thing is twisting sharpened pencils in the corner of his eyes. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING What? 
 Yeah, doesn't hurt himself, just spins it around next to his eyeball. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING I'm sure that ain't the only place he's sticking those pencils. 
 Naw, he don't do anything else with 'em, but he did get caught once with a Planet of the Apes doll hanging out his asshole. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING (laughing) Goddamn. 
 Had to take him to the hospital. Kid had Dr. Zaius stuck half way up his butt, couldn't get it out. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING I always loved that mute broad that Chuck Heston was shacking up with. 
 Nova, yeah she looked pretty sweet. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Yeah, now there's the perfect woman. 
 Can I get some stamps off ya? (slapping down his money) Did you fix the toilet yet? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Yes, I did... so don't you go stuffin' any goddamn paper towels down that hole. I just snaked the shit out of that thing. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Ya hear me? You bust that crapper and I'll beat your ass. 
 I hear ya. 
 (O.S.) All clear. Let's go shopping. 
. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Mary fucking Moses. Get the fuck out of here. 
 Hold it, clowney. Keep your paws where I can see 'em. 
 Go get that other asshole out of the shitter and drag his ass back in here. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Miserable little cunts with guns. I ought to jump right over this counter and bash your fucking balls in. 
 Alright Tippy, hand over the cash box and I might leave your brains inside your skull. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING That's what you bitches need. A reality check courtesy of my boot in your ass. That'll be a fucking cash box you can cry to mamma about. 
 (screaming) That's it. I'm gonna count to ten and you're gonna hand over the cash or I'm gonna splatter your grease paint mug across the stateline... one. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Fuck your mother. 
 Two. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Fuck your sister. 
 (recognizing Rich's voice) Hey, I know you. We were in high school together. Wood shop, right? ...Richard Wick... right? 
 Quiet down... three. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Fuck your grandmother. 
 Yeah, I remember Mr. Alacard the shop teacher use'ta call you Little Dick Wick. Hey, wasn't there a song we made up to go with that? 
 (singing) Little Dick Wick, play with his prick Don't his smell, just make you sick. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING And most of all... fuck you! 
 CAPT. SPAULDING (V.O.) God damn it, that motherfucker got blood all over my best clown suit. 
 
 Alright then, out of all of Charlie's chicks who do you think is the hottest? 
 I guess if I had to choose I'd say... mmmmmm... Sandra Good. She seemed like a nice girl, I mean in a psycho kind of way. 
 Really? Huh, I thought for sure you'd say Lynette Fromme. She's got that snooty vibe I know you dig. 
 Sqeaky! No way, she ain't that hot. 
 She's pretty cute. 
 Yeah but, she reminds me of this chick that I remember from fourth grade... called a... shit, what did we call her? (thinks for second) Oh yeah, Patty Pee-pee Pants... when ever she got called on by Miss Chumski, this chick would piss in her pants and start bawling. 
 (laughing) There always one kid with no bodily controls. We had this dude, Jeff Baxter, he was a puker. The fucker would just sit there puke all over himself. 
 Better than pissing... anyway so, what's your choice? 
 If we're talking cute... like regular cute, I'd say Leslie Van Houton, but cute ain't hot. 
 Yeah, no shit. 
 As far a hot... goes I gotta go with... Ruth Ann Moorehouse. 
 Oh yeah, I forgot about her. She was pretty hot. 
 Fuck yeah, she is. I'd join a cult to get some of that... and the best part is she didn't try to kill the President or nothing, so that baggage ain't hanging around. 
 I thought she tried to murder a witness for the prosecution. 
 I'll let it slide, she was only seventeen. 
 Dude, talk about baggage, that ain't no carry-on shit, that's some heavy duty Samsonite shit. 
 Yeah, I guess... hot chicks are always nuts. 
 Hot has got nothing to do with it. 
 (yawning) Hold on, I've heard this before... but I can't remember the end. 
 So, the guy goes to Hell and the devil says, "do you smoke?" The guy say, "yeah"... the devil say, "great cause Tuesday is cigar night, sweetest Cuban cigars you ever had." 
 Shit, we really need to find some gas. 
 (not listening) Then the devil asks, "do you drink?" Guy says, "yeah"... devil say, "wonderful, Wednesday is free drinks night, best booze you ever had... all made from the finest stuff." 
 Yeah. 
 Then the devil says, "are you gay?" Guy says, "fuck no"... Devil says, "Well then, I guess you're gonna hate Thursdays." 
 Oh yeah, I remember now. 
 Yeah, no shit I just told ya. (looking at magazine) Hey, you think this place called Alien Ed's UFO Welcoming Center is still around? It says, "Where the Fact is separated from the Fantasy." 
 I dunno... we'll ask around as we get closer. Man, I really don't want to run out of gas out here in the middle of Petticoat Junction, man. 
 (sitting up) Don't panic yourself, way too much caffeine guy... I see a sign. (reading the sign) Captain Spaulding's Museum of Madmen and Monsters... cool. Also... fried chicken and... gasoline... next exit. 
 Perfect. 
 I hope this place is cool. We could use something interesting to liven up chapter 12. 
 I'll pump the gas. Go inside and see if it's worth thinking about. 
 (salutes) OK, Boss. 
 Holy crap. You gotta see this place. It's awesome. 
 How awesome? 
 Really fucking awesome. 
 Wake up the chicks and bust out the camera awesome? 
 Hell yeah. 
 Wakey, wakey, eggs and bakey. 
 Come on, babe. Me and Bill found a kick ass place. 
 Huh? 
 Grab Mary and come inside. 
 Come on sleeping beauty, time to go to work. 
 (half asleep) Sleeping. 
 Rise and shine. 
 (groggy) No please, let me sit this one out. 
 (removing the blanket) Let's go. You're the one who wanted to be a photographer. 
 I resign. 
 Too late. You're in for life, let's move it out Private Shutterbug. 
 (opening her eyes) Christ, I hope this isn't more crappy folk art. It's so quaint... it's so primal... it's so crap. 
 Aw, it ain't crap... it's... cute. (sarcastic) ...and really who are we to judge the artistic merit of the tin-can Mona Lisa? 
 Aw, shit... (exhales deeply) I gotta pee anyway. 
 
 I ain't no rich man, but I see the truth. You do not have to go to Hell. You are in Hell. This is Hell. All American Hell. (holds up a gun) ...true heaven in my hands... I'm gonna blow Satan back through the door to Hell. 
 How long have you been running this place? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING How long is a piece of string? Too God damn long, that's how long. 
 No, really. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Shit, I don't remember exactly. I took over for my Pa just after the Duke nabbed the Oscar. 
 The Duke? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Yeah, my Pa wasn't right in the head after that. 
 You mean John Wayne? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Hell, boy there some other Duke you know about? (rolls up his sleeve to reveal a John Wayne tattoo) A great American. 
 Yeah, I was never that big of a western fan. I like science fiction. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING I figured that much. Why the fuck you asking so many jackass questions for? 
 You see me and my friends are writing a book on offbeat roadside attractions. You know all the crazy shit you see when you drive cross country. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING I don't drive cross country. 
 But if you did. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING I don't. 
 But suppose for a second you did. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING (fake hick accent) Y'all find us country people real funny like don't ya... well, God damn pack up the mule and sling me some grits, I'ze a gotta get me some schooling. 
 No, no I think it's really interesting. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Well fuck me Side Sally, who want to read about all that horse shit anyway. 
 You'd be surprised. Would it be OK if we took some pictures and included this place in our book? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Hey, knock yourself silly. 
 You got some really rare stuff here... (pointing to Aqualina) ...dig your Feegee mermaid. 
 (water running down her face) I swear I've aged five years since this trip started. 
 Tell me about it. 
 (takes a paper towel and wipes her face) God, I hate falling asleep in the afternoon. Now I'll be up all night... (stretches) ...ugh, my back is killing me. 
 Yeah, hey how far do you think we are from your Dad's? 
 I don't know. Couple hours I think. I've got to call him. 
 It will be nice to have a few days off to regenerate. This trip is fun, but it's starting to get brutal. 
 Yeah, I hit burn out mode back at that old stripper lady's place. Watching her dance around with those ratty-looking animals was ridiculous. 
 I know, that was some crazy shit. I never in a million years would have believed it if I hadn't seen it. 
 A decent meal every once in a while wouldn't hurt either, this road food is crap. 
 If I never eat at another Waffle House again, I can die a happy girl. 
 Scattered, smothered and covered. 
 Exactly... well, I guess a couple more photos won't kill me. 
 Great, you're back. Let's go. We already paid for the tickets. 
 Tickets for what? 
 This isn't everything. Get ready for this... there's a Museum of Murder and Mayhem. 
 I don't want to see that. 
 How about if we skip it and just hang out here. I can get some great shots of this stuff. 
 Aw, come on. It will be fun. 
 Oh yeah, murder museum... sounds fun. 
 (smiling) We'll need pictures of the inside too. 
 Alright, alright. I know... I wanted to be the photographer. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Anytime this year, people. Alright line your asses up in front of the black door. The tour is about to begin. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Ladies and gentlemen, you are about to enter a world of darkness. A world where life and death are meaningless and pain is God. (pointing with a cane) To your left you see the infamous Albert Fish. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Sadist, masochist, child killer and most of all importantly cannibal. Born in 1870, Mr. Fish enjoyed burning himself with hot pokers, spankings with nail-studded paddles and embedding needles in his groin. On the right, notice the X-ray... 
 CAPT. SPAULDING ...showing clearly 29 sewing needles inserted in to his groin. Mr. Fish was executed in 1936 at the age of 65. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING To your right. One of our most popular crazies, the psycho of Plainfield, Ed Gein. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Murderer, cannibal and momma's little bitch boy. Mr. Gein found special pleasure in playing with the dead bodies of women, especially their sexual organs. He was quite a handy little dandy, fashioning lamp shades, jewelry and human skin suits from his victims. Mr. Gein was discovered when the decapitated body of Bernice Worden was found gutted like a deer, hanging in his barn. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING And now I would like to introduce a local hero, S. Quentin Quale, a.k.a. The Butcher Boy, a.k.a. Nurse Nellie and most famously a.k.a. Dr. Satan. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Murderer, torturer and most of all master surgeon. Mr. Quale an intern at Willows State Mental Hospital, nicknamed Weeping Willows for its neverending cries of pain, took great pleasure in control. Through primitive brain surgery. Mr. Quale believed he could create a race of superhumans from the mentally ill, or so the story goes. His terrifying experiments continued until 1952. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING At which time he was discovered and turned over to authorities for observation. Unfortunately, Mr. Quale was abducted from his cell by members of the victims' families. Vigilante justice prevailed and Dr. Satan was taken out and hanged. The next day his body was found to be missing. Some say he survived, rescued by his loyal slaves, others say they hung the wrong man... To this day no sign of Dr. Satan has ever been discovered. But who knows? Maybe he lives next door to you. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Please exit through the door. 
 MR. WILLIS Hello... (brightens up) ...hey Denise... what, what's wrong, did you break down? 
 No, nothing like that... yeah, we're gonna be a little late. We stopped for gas at this place called Capt. Spaulding's outside of Ruggsville and it turned into a whole thing, so we're kind of behind schedule. 
 MR. WILLIS Oh yeah, yeah I've driven by that place before. I seem to remember a crabby old bastard in a crummy clown suit running the place. 
 Yeah, well he's still here. I think him and Jerry are fast becoming buddies, you know Jerry... yeah, he's gotta see everything... yeah, I know... thinks there's some unsolved mystery around every corner. 
 MR. WILLIS Well, don't take too long, the kids are already knocking down the door demanding their sugar fix... I know, I know I forgot to mention that Halloween falls on a school night, so they're trick or treating tonight... I got the joint decked out this year, built a graveyard in the front yard like when you were a kid. 
 Hopefully I can move things along here and make up the lost time by speeding all the way home... yes, Dad I'm kidding. 
 MR. WILLIS Well, just promise me you'll be careful... alright, alright see ya soon... good-bye. 
 I'm gonna go ask him. 
 Aw, come on Jerry. We've gotten all we're gonna get out of this place and its starting to rain. 
 Shit, it is only sprinkling and it's worth the trouble. Hold on for two seconds. 
 Yeah so... OK, expect us more around eleven or so. OK yeah, I will... love you, too, bye. 
 I know it's hard to understand, but I really want to see this tree. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING OK, alright I'll draw you a map, but I still say it is a waste of time. 
 Great. 
 Geez, he never gets tired does he. 
 Never. I swear to God he never sleeps, he goes to bed after me, wakes up before me. He's always working on 10. 
 Maybe he's a cyborg. 
 (wearily, sips his coffee) I like sleep. 
 Here he comes. 
 We hit the jackpot! Let's roll, good buddy. We got ourselves a convoy. 
 Huh? 
 Ugh, what's that smell? 
 Fried chicken. (holds up a drumstick) Anybody want some? 
 I don't know where that skunk ape sleeps. Maybe in the trees and all... all I know is he eats squirrels to survive and he had impure relations with my wife. 
 That's true. He performed lurid acts upon me and my person while my husband Russell was a fix'n to our hound Clarence. 
 If I see that thing again... I'm a gonna kill that skunk ape. 
 (off screen) What does it look like? 
 It looked just like that chubby fella from McHale's Navy... Ernie Borgnine. 
 Hold up the picture. 
 Keep straight on this road here. 
 How much further? 
 I'm not exactly sure... it looks close. Did we pass an abandoned school bus yet? 
 I don't know. 
 Let's just skip it. It is probably nothing anyway. 
 Aw Christ, Jerry. We can't see anything now, it's too dark. Let's forget it. 
 Come on, we need something like this. It could be the real deal. It's too far out of the way to come back to. 
 What's that? 
 It's a hitchhiker. 
 Way out here? 
 Well, don't even think about playing the good samaritan, there's way too many psychos wandering loose these days. 
 (looking closer) It's a girl. 
 Hey, maybe she knows where this is? 
 (sarcastically) That seems likely. 
 Should we stop? 
 We can't leave her out here in the rain... maybe we can just drop her at the next rest area. 
 She looks like a freak. 
 Stick her in the front, if you want to pick her up so bad. She's soaked. 
 She looks like she stinks. 
 (imitating Mary) She looks like she stinks. 
 (makes cat noises) Cat fight, cat fight. 
 Hardy har, har. 
 Whoa, thanks for stopping. I been standing out there in that toad strangling rain for like a hundred million years. 
 Really, that's a long time. 
 Yeah, most people just whiz on by like I was invisible or something... or else they're creeps who wanna jam their slimy hands down my pants and twiddle my naughty-naughty. 
 Yikes. 
 Yeah, icky. This one guy stops and I look in and he's got his thing out waving it around like a drunk monkey. 
 Well, hitchhiking ain't the safest way for a girl to travel. 
 Yeah, but it's fun. 
 Sounds like a magical trip through the heartland. 
 Where ya headed? 
 Aw, I was going home to my Mamma's house... yeah, I was out doing this thing. 
 Where's that? 
 Couple more miles up this road. 
 Hey, you might know... (shows her the map) ...you know where this tree is at? It's an old hanging tree from... 
 Yeah, I know where that is, it's right by my house. It's Dr. Satan's tree. I can show ya. 
 Really, wow, so it's really a real thing. 
 Yeah, it's a tree. I used to play there all the time. But, you can't find it without me. Outsider can't find no deadwood. 
 Deadwood, is that what it's called? Cool, will you show us? 
 Maybe, maybe, maybe... hey, you know what word I hate? 
 What? 
 Cone. 
 Huh... what cone? 
 Any cone, yeah... (looking out the window) I hate that word... sounds ugly, I don't like crumple either. 
 I always hate saying the word cheese, every time you get your picture taken... smile, say cheese. 
 I know I hate Swiss cheese, the holes make me nervous. 
 What about the tree? 
 Oh yeah, the tree. 
 This is crazy. She don't know nothing. 
 Oh, I know. I'll show you where it's at, sweetie. Aren't you just so cute all bundled up like a cinnamon roll of Christmas love. 
 Cool. 
 Which way? 
 Go straight up about another mile... til we hit Cherrypicker Road and turn right... it ain't far from there. 
 (V.O.) This is WJRC News at the top of the hour... Investigators in Clairemont County are no closer to identifying the body of a young woman found crucified to the doors of St. Mary's Church yesterday morning. 
 Excuse me, could you not smoke in here? 
 (V.O.) Local police and State Officials have released this report... 
 What's that? 
 I don't know. Looks like some kind of animal. 
 Why are we stopping? 
 There's a dog in the road. 
 Honk at him. Scare him. 
 (honking horn) He won't move. 
 Go around him. 
 There's not enough room. 
 Then run him over, he'll move. 
 No! He's one of God's creatures, he can't help it if he's dumb... I'm just crazy about animals. 
 (to Denise) The animals have got nothing to do with it. 
 Hey, he moved. 
 Let's get going before that thing tries to eat the car or something. 
 That reminds me of a film I saw once of a guy who got out of his car at Lion Country Safari to take a picture of a lion cub and got eaten by the lions. 
 Oh yeah, I heard about that. I always thought it was bullshit. 
 No... yeah, they ripped him to pieces while his family watched from the car. The wife is screaming, the kids are crying. Some dude in another car filmed the whole thing. 
 I'd like to see that. 
 Nice. 
 The lions were totally covered in this guy's blood... I think they ate his face off, tore open his rib cage, pulled his legs off... it was a wild scene. 
 Things like that get a lot bloodier than ya think. 
 What was that? 
 Fuck. I think we blew a tire. 
 Don't even say it. 
 You got to be fucking joking. 
 God damn it, I knew this witch-hunt was fucking bullshit. 
 OK, let's relax. I'll check it, maybe I'm wrong. Don't everybody freak out just yet. 
 I'll help ya. 
 (sarcastic) Gee, ya think it wouldn't be too much trouble. 
 I hope you fixed the spare like I asked ya. 
 Yeah, I fixed it. Well, I ain't... um, I can't remember. I think I took it out to fit the bags and forgot to put it back. 
 Jesus Christ, Jerry. 
 Well, technically I did what ya said. 
 You're a real fucking piece of work. 
 Can I help you with something? 
 I was just wondering. 
 Wondering what? 
 Are you two gals all funny with each other? 
 What? 
 You know... a couple of queers. 
 Do you believe this fucking girl? 
 (turning her attention to Mary) I was just wondering, cause you got a pissy look about you... like a real pussy licking bitch. 
 No. No pussy licking here, but thanks for your concern. 
 Well, I got some bad news and some bad news. 
 What? 
 (fake Scottish accent) Tire's fucking gone crap on us, man. There's no saving it now. 
 And the spare is safely sitting in Jerry's garage. 
 For fucking sake Jerry, what the fuck are we gonna do? 
 What the hell are you laughing about? 
 I just pictured the tire sitting in a chair watching TV. 
 Oh, wonderful. (muttering to herself) Fucking psycho. 
 I guess I'll try to back it out on the rim... at least to the main road. 
 If you keep going straight you can get back on the interstate... it's easier. 
 Just back up. 
 I think we should go straight. I mean we know for a fact there ain't nothing back that way, right? 
 Oh wait! I love this song! 
 Fine. I'll go straight. 
 What! 
 (over the loud music) Fine! I'll go straight! 
 Fuck! We are fucked! 
 Turn that fucking radio off! 
 Now what are we gonna do? 
 We can walk to my house from here. My brother's got a tow truck, he can come get your car. 
 I think I'm going fucking crazy. 
 I can't believe... 
 OK, whatever. Let's go get your brother's truck. Faster we get the truck, faster we get out of here. 
 OK. 
 I'll go. It's my fault. 
 You said it, not me. 
 Forget it. I'll just go. 
 Screw that, no way, I ain't letting you go by yourself. 
 Don't worry, I'll be quick. Just stay here, no sense everybody getting drenched. 
 I agree. 
 Yeah, it won't take long and besides you sassy poodle girls will slow us down. 
 Don't worry, I'll be right back. 
 Come on. 
 Don't forget the flashlight, it's pretty dark out there. 
 Thanks. 
 No problem. 
 (bad Marilyn Monroe imitation) Hi, I'm Miss Bunny and welcome to my Hollywood Revue... (she giggles) ...where the stars shine forever. 
 Hi, this is the place where the magic happens. 
 (holding up squirrel) This is Jenny, she is our resident Ingrid Bergman. 
 This is Ronald J. Perrywinckle... our Humphrey Bogart... today we'll be doing a scene from Casablanca. 
 If that plane leaves the ground and you're not with him you'll regret it... maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow but soon and for the rest of your life. 
 But what about us? 
 We'll always have Paris. We didn't have, we lost it... until you came to Casablanca. We got it back last night. 
 When I said I would never leave you. 
 And you never will. 
 How much further? 
 Almost there... are you in a hurry or something? 
 Well, yeah, kind of. 
 Fuck, it's freezing. 
 Hey, listen to this... I think this is related to our Dr. Satan. 
 Oh, yeah. 
 Yeah, in this book there's a chapter called Self Made Freaks about how people would mutilate themselves in order to work in a freak show. It mostly talks about tattooed people and wild men of Borneo and shit like that, but there is one mention of a single case where a woman was suspected of having her arms removed on purpose to become an arm-less wonder. 
 Yeah, so how does that fit with the story of four morons with a flat tire looking for a dead tree? 
 It says, "records show that Ellie Thompson was born in 1914 of normal physical stature and lived a life of normal bearings, until such time that she was placed in the care of the Willows State Mental Facility." 
 So. 
 Now she was put in the nuthouse in 1930 at the age of 16. 
 Why? 
 (scanning the book) Blah, blah, blah... it doesn't say, but she was released sometime in 1937, only to reappear as Ellie Bogdan, the arm-less wonder. Says she, "criss-crossed the United States constantly in carnivals and freak shows until her death in 1946." 
 Yeah? 
 These dates perfectly correspond with the time frame of our beloved Dr. Satan working at the looney bin. I'll bet he amputated her arms. 
 So what? 
 I don't know, I just thought it was interesting. 
 You know what Jerry, who really cares at this point? 
 I don't... (to himself) ...I just thought it was weird. 
 (bursting in) God damn it, I must be fucking crazy to let him go off with that crazy fucking bitch. 
 Huh? 
 That stupid hillbilly slut. 
 Oh, don't blow everything out of proportion. 
 You didn't see the look she threw me. She's up to something. 
 Yeah, Jerry, she said some pretty fucked shit to us. 
 When? 
 When you were outside with Bill. 
 She said we look like pussy lickers or some shit like that. 
 Yeah, she said we looked queer. 
 Aw, get over it, she's just some dopey redneck, she ain't smart enough to be up to nothing... I mean anything... chicks. 
 These are all my dolls. I use to like to chop their heads off. 
. 
 The door's locked. I'll gotta go around... wait here. 
 OK. 
 Christ, you scared the shit out of me. 
 Aw, you ain't seen nothing yet. 
 Is your brother ready to go? 
 Oh... yeah, he already left. We'll wait inside, come on. 
 He left! 
 Yeah, come on. 
 How long has it been? 
 I don't know... about half an hour. 
 What was that? 
 What? I didn't hear anything. 
 Wait... quiet. Turn off the radio. 
 Now... listen. 
 I don't hear anything. 
 (whispering) Shhhhhh, quiet. 
 I still don't. 
 Turn on the headlights. See if anything is out there. 
 What... what! 
 Lock the doors... quick, quick. 
 Holy fuck, holy fuck, holy fuck. 
 Hold on, hold on! Everybody calm down! It's the tow truck guy. 
 What! 
 Jesus Christ. 
 I think I'm gonna have a fucking heart attack. 
 (Scottish accent) OK lassies, I think it's time you get to gripping reality. 
 Enough with the stupid voices. 
 Knock again louder. 
 I should of thought that was loud enough to wake the dead... that's an idea. 
 What is? 
 Wouldn't it be dramatic, supposing the people inside were dead. All stretched out with the lights quietly burning about them. 
 I'm sure it would be very amusing. 
 So, you live here alone... I mean with just your brother? 
 (speaking from the next room) No. There's a bunch a us 'round somewhere... I think Mamma's sleepin'. She sleeps a lot, now... do you want marshmallows? 
 Um, yeah sure, I guess. 
 You sure do a lot of guessing. 
 Thank you. 
 You're welcome. 
 Hey, um... (pointing to the mounted animal head over the fireplace) ...what kind of animal is that? 
 A dead one. 
 (sipping his drink) Mmmmm, this is tasty. 
 (scoops out some marshmallow with her finger) Ain't the only thing tasty in this house. (licks it off) 
 I wonder what time it is. Seems kind of late. 
 Don't worry, sugar. It ain't past my bedtime... are you flirting with me? 
 What? No, I'm was worried that... I was just wondering what's taking so long. 
 Oh. Maybe R.J. got into a crash and killed everbody? 
 That's not something to joke about. 
 (rolls her eyes) OK, sorry... maybe the Great Pumpkin ate 'em up. 
 Hey, great they're back. 
 (sarcastically) Whoopie fucking doo. 
 DR. WOLFENSTEIN (sounds like Wolfman Jack) Aaaahooooh, the Doctor is in! Don't move, don't scream. Stay tuned for more creature craziness from channel 68's Halloween eve movie marathon. I'm your host... your ghost host with the most, baby... Dr. Wolfenstein and will be with you until the end. Aaaaaaahooooooh! 
 (looking at Bill) Hey, nice outfit Billy Bob. 
 Thanks for coming to get us. Little brother almost scared us to death. 
 (quietly to Bill as he passes) Dude, your chick's a little high strung. 
 Mary, I'm sorry but he left without me. Mary... come on, you don't think I'd leave you stranded out there. 
 Look. I gotta call my Dad and tell him we're gonna be late. Can I use your phone? 
 Excuse me, may I please use your phone? 
 (sarcastically) Bill, why don't you ask her... she's your special friend. 
 Ain't got one. 
 Huh? Oh, hi. You really don't have a phone? 
 No, none. I had one once, back in '57 maybe... I don't know. Really ain't nobody we wanna be jaw flapping at around here no more. 
 Hey, maybe the guy with the tow truck could drive us to a phone. 
 His name is Rufus, Rufus Jr., but we all call him R.J. 
 Oh, right. 
 What do they call you, sweety? 
 Um, I'm Jerry... that's Bill... Denise and Mary. 
 Yeah, maybe R.J. could just tow us and our car to the nearest garage. 
 I mean obviously we will compensate you for your troubles. 
 Oh, you ain't no troubles, no, no, no fuss. (claps her hands) Baby... go see what Rufus Jr. is doing with these nice folks' automobile. 
 In the meanwhile please make yourselves at home. 
 
 (singing, off screen) 98 bodies in your bed, Some are green, some are red. Eat the flesh and pick the bones, Drink the blood when you get home. 99 bodies in the ground, Some are blue, some are brown. Gather 'round the people said, Where do you go when you are dead? 
 So, what brings you kids way out here, ain't you got something better to do for Halloween than wander around out here in the sticks? 
 Well, I thought I'd maybe take in a hoedown. 
 (flirting) Oh, really... (puts her hand on Jerry's knee and winks) ...well, I'm a pretty good dancer if you know what I mean... I bet I got a few moves you ain't never seen. 
 I don't doubt that. 
 No, he's just joking. We don't really have any plans other than spending the night at my Dad's house... (glances at Jerry) ...which is where we were headed when our car broke down. 
 That's nice. 
 Yeah, I guess I'll just help him hand out candy to the trick or treaters. 
 And I'm gonna help put the razor blades in the candy apples. 
 I'll bet you are... you are a naughty little thing aren't ya. 
 I was just kidding. 
 Oh, I get it... I guess you think you're too good for the simple pleasures of Halloween. 
 No, just a little too old. 
 Oh really, well I hope something changes your mind some day. 
 Tiny's home. 
 What about R.J.? 
 Oh, he was already gone before I seen him... but Tiny saw him and said he said he was going out to the yard to get a new wheel. 
 The yard, what's that? 
 It's an old auto junkyard out in Baldwin. 
 How long is that gonna take? 
 He should be back in a couple hours. 
 A couple hours! 
 Can't Tiny drive us to a phone? 
 (laughing) Tiny ain't got no car, he ain't even got a bicycle. 
 How's he get around out here? 
 He walks, duh. 
 Fucking great. 
 I know you're my guests and welcome but I'd please advise you to keep from cussing while in my house, thank you. 
 Sorry. 
 Well, even though I know it seems childish to you all. Tonight is Halloween eve and it special to us so you are all invited to stay for dinner. 
 Thank you. 
 (imitates Elvis) Yes, thank you. Thank you very much. 
 (Mother touches Jerry's shoulder suggestively) You're a strange one, aren't ya honey. I think you and me are get on like... (she thinks for a second) ...like something real good. 
 DR. WOLFENSTEIN There well, who knew there was love to be found in The Old Dark House. Coming up next, do not move a muscle, an artery or a vein as we venture into another creepy classic... are you ready for THE WOLFMAN, baby? 
 (holding up the witch mask) I hope to Christ she doesn't expect us to wear these things. 
 Whatever it is just do it. The more we play along the faster we'll get the hell out of here. 
 Really, now is not the time to make waves. 
 Hey, I'm just waiting for Cousin Itt to show up. 
 Shhhhhh. 
 You sure you don't need any help in there? 
 No dear, I'm fine. Now what kind of host would I be if I put my guests to this kind of work. 
 (O.S.) Ma, Tiny's in. 
 (O.S.) Go tell him to get your Grandpa. 
 (whining) Ma, I can't, I'm busy getting dressed. 
 You'll have to forgive Tiny, he can't hear so much. 
 Oh. 
 Yeah, my poor baby. It's his Daddy's fault. I mean Earl was a good man... I mean he never hit me or nothing, but one day he just got up and went pure devil on us all. 
 What happened? Oh, I'm sorry, it's none of my business. 
 He tried to burn the house down, said it was possessed by the spirits. Tiny was sleeping in the basement where the fire started. I don't think Earl ever meant to harm us... but Tiny was badly burnt, his ears were destroyed and most of his skin. 
 Is that why he wears the mask? 
 Yeah, my baby boy gets shy around new people, but he'll warm up to ya... especially the ladies. 
 Great. I thought I felt a certain attraction between Mary and Tiny soon as he walked in. 
 Maybe. He's a real lady killer. 
 Didn't ya think, Mary? 
 Well, we'll see... the night is young and so are you... oh well, couple more minutes. 
 (elbows Jerry) Don't be such a fucking smart ass. 
 Yeah, it's really your fault that we're stuck in this shithole in the first place. 
 Oh, don't worry she didn't get offended by what I said. You two got to lighten up... right, Bill? 
 Whatever, at this point all I care about is food. I'm starving and I got a fucking killer headache. 
 Hey, I asked you if you wanted some chicken. 
 Didn't look like chicken to me, more like fried pussy cat. 
 (shrugs) Tasted pretty good. 
 God damn it, I can do it. I can do it myself, ya big monkey. I ain't dead yet... so don't you and your sister start counting out my money yet. 
 God damn, my dogs are barking. 
 (V.O.) Your hands, please. Your left hand shows your past... 
 ...and your right hand shows your future. 
 MR. WILLIS Hello, Denise? 
 MR. WILLIS Oh, yeah... no, Fred. I was hoping you were Denise, she's a little late. (pausing) Yeah, yeah I'm sure the rain just slowed 'em down... yeah... uh-huh, yeah... no, no you can keep it 'til Tuesday... alright, talk to ya tomorrow, bye. 
 OK, everyone, put on your masks. We can't very well eat with our everyday faces exposed. 
 (to Mary) Christ kid, put it on. She ain't letting any of us touch the grub 'til you're wearing the damn thing. 
 I've been meaning to ask you, Mrs... Ummmm. 
 (hesitates) Firefly. 
 Firefly... mmmmm odd name. Mrs. Firefly, do you know anything about the legend of Dr. Satan? 
 Here we go. 
 (nervously) Well, I'm not much for local gossip an this and that, but I've heard it mentioned in passing over the years but... I mean folks is queer and they say things, crazy things you know what I mean? 
 It's all talk, yakty yak, like a bunch of hungry chipmunks... Christ, Dr. Satan. That takes the bull's nuts alright... (starts laughing) ...hey, I hear some genius up north got a hot line on the Easter Bunny for ya. 
 (slowly) I know all about what you want to know about. 
 (happy surprise) Otis! I can't believe you decided to come down and join us... and you brought little Wolf. This really is a special night... all my babies together. 
 Now, I don't know where you heard all your little fairy fables about Dr. Satan but... 
 From a Captain Spaulding down at some museum. 
 (laughing) That old bitch hog don't know shit. He tells cute little tattle-tales to sell his junk, but he don't sell no Yankee boys no truth. 
 But something happened, right? I mean the story is based on a real incident, right? 
 (mouth full of food) What are you, Jimmy Olsen cub reporter for the Daily Asshole? 
 Grampa... watch the language. 
 I ain't sure that you really need to know. It's better you go home still dreaming about your kitty cats and puppy dogs. 
 I really want to know. 
 Hey, the kid wants to know. Enlighten him. 
 Boy, I bet you'd stick your head in the fire if I told ya you'd see Hell... meanwhile you too stupid to realize you got a demon sticking out your ass singing, "Holy Miss Moly, I got a live one." 
 Can we please change the subject? 
 (shouting) Dinner's over. (pushes his plate back and stands up) Ladies and Germs... it's showtime. 
 What's he so excited about? 
 Yeah, showtime for what? 
 For the show. It's Halloween eve and time for our show. 
 Oh, you mean on TV. 
 No, no, no it's so much more special than that... you'll see, you'll be the first to ever see. I think this is something you'll really love. 
 Great. 
 Please, come in... how many in your party... (she counts the heads) ...one, two, three and four... right this way. 
 Please be seated. 
 (whispering) This is way too fucked up for words. 
 (loud whisper) I know the words... fucking psycho fucking bullshit, that's the words. 
 Just grin and bear it. 
 That food... (holding stomach) ugh, I feel like I'm gonna puke. 
 (to Bill) Check this out. 
 Well, ya can't complain I never take you anyplace. 
 (quietly) I can't believe what I'm seeing. 
 I know, this is fucking nuts. 
 This is starting to make me real uncomfortable. 
 Just sit back and enjoy the show. 
 (V.O.) Ladies and gentlemen, straight from his smash six week sold out run at Tiki-Ti Club... the Stardust lounge is proud to present Mr. Sexy himself... Grampa Hugo. 
 Hey, let me tell ya a story... so I'm hanging out with my buddy Hal Jackowictz and I'm like, hey Hal let's go get some booze and chase the chickens... fucking Hal says no, no the old battle axe at home will break my balls... I gotta get my ass home. 
 So, I tell 'im... Hal, here's the secret. Go home tonight, crawl into bed, get under the covers and eat your wife's pussy... I mean jam your face right in the bush. 
 (quietly) What are you laughing at? 
 I don't know, I think he's funny. 
 This isn't funny, it's twisted. 
 So, Hal goes home, jumps in, starts chomping and licking away at her pussy, she's screaming and howling... totally passes out from the experience. 
 Dear God, let this end. 
 Now, Hal... He's feeling pretty good, so he goes into the bathroom for a quick shave... (pauses) ...suddenly he lets out a horrible scream. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh! 
 Sitting there on the toilet is Hal's wife Gloria... and she says, "Quiet down, you'll wake Grandma!" 
 Thank you, you're too kind, too kind... stay in your seats, coming up next we got something special for you men out there. 
 Shit, I'm all for being a sport, but this is ridiculous. 
 (looking at his watch) Man, it's already ten thirty. 
 I'm with Denise, can't we just walk to someplace, this is getting fucking stupid. 
 Negative. Shit, we are so deep in the sticks we could walk for hours and find zero. 
 Yeah, I'd say at this point all we can do is just wait it out. There's nothing else. 
 I suppose. I mean they're obviously all bonkers, but I guess they're harmless. 
 I fucking hope so. 
 You gotta be kidding me. This chick is wasted. 
 Shhhhhh. 
 How much is a person supposed to stand? 
 (motioning for Mary to keep her voice down) Quiet. 
 (sarcastically) Oh, I'm sorry, bothering you? Was I disturbing your viewing pleasure? 
 Take that, you fucking slut! (Mary spits at Baby) Fucking redneck whore! 
 You shouldn't a done that. 
 Why? You gonna do something about it? 
 (standing up) Yeah, I'll do something. 
 I'll cut your fucking tits off and shove 'em down your throat. 
 Baby! Stop! 
 Come on, ma... this bitch's got it coming. 
 No, I told you... 
. (interrupting) Car's done. 
 Thank God. 
 I suggest you kids leave now. 
 Don't worry, I'm gone. 
 Don't look back, just get in the car. 
 Lock the fucking doors. 
 (straining to see through the darkness) Almost there. 
 Jesus, you think she was really gonna cut you? 
 (leaning her forehead on the window) Of course she was gonna cut me, she's a fucking nut... (closes her eyes and takes a breath) I knew she was crazy from the second we picked her up. 
 (screaming) You're in Hell, bitch! You're gonna die like a dog! 
 Go! Go! Go! Get us out of here! 
 (hysterical) What are you doing! 
 I gotta open the gate. 
 Drive through it! 
 It won't work. 
 Holy fuck, hurry up. 
 Bill! Help him! 
. 
 MR. WILLIS Hi. Lieutenant Broekman please... Donald Willis. 
 MR. WILLIS Hey, Phil... (listens) Yeah, I'm alright... but I need you to check on something for me. 
 MR. WILLIS I'm a little worried about Denise. She called me last night from the road, out by Ruggsville at some joint called Spaulding's or something like that, said she'd be here about eleven... but she never showed up. 
 MR. WILLIS Yeah, if you could run a check on up that way and see about any accidents or road closing or anything, I'd really appreciate it... (listening) ...yeah, yeah, I know... I'm sure nothing happened but, you know me I like to worry... thanks... bye. 
 (off screen) Shut your fucking mouth! 
 I said shut your mouth! 
 (slow and sinister) Listen, you Malibu Barbie middle class piece of shit. I'm trying to work, you got me, work... you ever work? 
 Yeah, I'll bet you did. Scooping ice cream to your shitheel friends on summer break... well, I ain't talking about white socks with Mickey Mouse on one side and Donald Duck on the other... shit, you ain't reading no funny books, mamma. 
 This is blood and guts, Suzy Q. Our bodies come and go, but this blood is forever... (pulls a small book from his breast pocket) ...let me read you something, listen and learn... you listening? 
 (gesturing dramatically) And the angels, all pallid and wan, Uprising, unveiling, affirm That the play is the tragedy "Man" And its hero the Conqueror Worm... (pauses) ...you get that? Art is eternal, you get me, mamma? 
 Now, I'm gonna remove my hand... you make a sound and I swear I'll slit you open and make you eat your own fucking intestines... you get me? 
 (whispering) Why? Why are you doing this? 
 Doing what? Messy up your day? Well, fuck lady there are some bigger issues at hand... than your fucking have a nice fucking day bumper sticker shit! 
 Where's Bill? 
 (chuckling) Well, Bill... he's a good guy, he's been great help to me... a real blessing... I couldn't have asked for a better specimen. I mean you don't know what a dry spell I've had, total block... (slaps his forehead) ...total block... but Bill he's OK. 
 (softly) Where is he? 
 Let's go see. 
 (behind curtain) Bill? No, no, no! What have you done? Bill! 
 Behold... The Fish-Boy! 
 (repeating to herself) This can't be real, this can't be real, this can't be real. 
 Oh, it's real... as real as I want it to be, mamma... (grabs his canvas and holds it in her face) ...look, see the magic in my brush strokes. 
 (crying) Fuck you, you fucking freak! 
 Oh, come now... we're all creatures of God and freaks in our own way... (twitches and shakes) ...but if you'll notice... (points to a blank spot in the painting) right here, needs a little something, heh? 
 What are you doing? (squirming) ...no, stop... please, please. 
 You, my dear worm feeder, are about to become immortalized. 
 (screaming) Noooooooooooo! 
 (pauses, looks around, pulls up his belt) Well, let's go see if the nut that runs this place can help us. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Whoever's a jerking off on that bell better be gone when I get out there... 'cause I'm gonna rip your nuts off. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Officers, officers what can I do for you today? I ain't fried up the birds yet... if that's what you're ring a ding dinging about. 
 (pulls a paper from his pocket) What I need are some answers. (unfolds the paper to reveal a picture of Denise) 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Well, I'll try but I don't know nothing 'bout nobody. I'm a guy who likes to mind his own business, if ya get what I'm saying. 
 (holds up picture) You seen this girl? Say... within the last 24 hours. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING (studies the picture) Yeah, yeah I seen her. Good looking kid, but not really my type... (gesturing with his hands) ...I like meaty, eh? 
 Come on, get with the facts. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Hmmmmmmmmm? 
 What'd you see, who was she with, where were they going? 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Aw, she was with some nosey, smartass high-rise kids. They were poking around... asking stupid questions. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING This and that, mostly some tired Dr. Satan bullshit... they got a gander at the display back there and thought they could solve the great Deadwoods mystery. 
 And... 
 CAPT. SPAULDING And I gave 'em directions out there, up by the old farm row... I figured what's the harm. Stupid kids probably going out to piss up a rope and got themselves turned around backasswards and got lost as shit. 
 Is that all... think real hard. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Yeah, they weren't here but a few minutes, didn't really have time to get as up close and personal as I do with most of the assholes that wander through here. 
 How's about you give me those same directions. 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Yeah, yeah, sure. You don't have to get all True Grit all over my ass... I'll give'm to ya... you can knock yourself silly for all I care. 
 (hands him a note pad) Enough talk, write. 
 (screaming over the music) We're gonna have fun tonight, bro. 
. Yeah, fun. 
 I hope you're right, but my guts are telling me different. 
 Yeah... (realizes what he just said) ...huh, what the hell are you talking about? 
 How old do you think I am? I know who the fuck Spider-man is. Get to your point. 
 I always favored the Hulk. 
 Aw, fuck. 
 Call the chief... We found 'em. 
 You all having a Halloween party tonight? 
 Now, what makes you think that? 
 You all sure are buying a lot of holy water for two people. 
 Yeah, well we like to get fucked up and do fucked up shit, you know what I mean? 
 Yeah, yeah... (giggling) ...I like to fuck shit up. 
 I'll bet you do... how much we owe ya... (looks at his name tag) ...Goober? 
 (looking down at his tag) Actually it's G. Ober... Gerry Ober, but the guys drew in the other O, fucking assholes. 
 (uninterested) Great story Goober, how much? 
 Ummmm... two hundred and eighty-five dollars. 
 Keep the change and get yourself a new name. 
 Holy crap, thanks! 
 Come on, bro. Let's go. 
 (holding out a flyer) Hey, wait take this. 
 What's this? 
 A missing girl. I use'ta go to school with her, she just up and disappeared some day... real weird. 
 Now isn't she a happy little cherub... oh well (stuffs it in her pocket) ...nobody just up and disappears. 
. (mutters) Aliens. 
 Yeah, maybe it was fucking aliens. 
 What'd we here, Georgie? 
 A vehicle registered to a William S. Hudley. 
 Holy Jesus, somebody had themselves a field day beating the shit outta this thing. 
 Yeah, no mercy here. 
 Recover any bodies? 
 Not yet. 
 (inspecting the car) Shit, I wonder what these kids did to bring this much hell down on 'em. 
 Just in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
 That's the understatement of the year. 
 Yep, I suppose it is. 
 What'd ya got there? 
 Well Christ boy, don't stand there like a prize dog dick with his butthole caught up a tree. 
 Open up the trunk. 
 Toss 'em over here. 
 (winces) God damn. 
 You find something, Georgie? 
 (disgusted) Yep, I found something. 
 (hoarse and dry) Please... Tiny, please. Let me go... help me. 
 (crying) Please, God please. 
 (scanning the parking lot) Chief said pick him up and take him with us on our house to house. Guy's an ex-cop, thinks he can help. 
 Yeah, well I guess it's tough to sit on the sidelines and wait when your own kid's missing... besides, ain't no such thing as an ex-cop. 
 That must be him. 
 Mr. Willis? 
 MR. WILLIS Yes, sir. 
 I'm Wydell... this is Naish. 
 MR. WILLIS George Willis... (to Wydell) ...any leads? 
 Well, we were on our way out to run a check on a couple farmhouses out on the edge of town... closest thing we got to a lead at this point. 
 MR. WILLIS That's it? 
 Well, all we know is the kids were headed out to a spot the locals call Deadwood to play Nancy Drew with some local legend about this character everybody calls Dr. Satan. 
 MR. WILLIS Dr. Satan? 
 Anyway, there's not much else out that way... so, I figure maybe there's a chance the kids broke down and found their way over to one of the farms. 
 MR. WILLIS What about the body you found? 
 (slightly surprised) Oh, yeah, you know about that? Hmmm, that's a strange one. 
 MR. WILLIS Fit the profile? 
 Her part in this I can't figure... but I will. 
 MR. WILLIS (wipes his brow) Christ, you know it's crazy... (gets choked up) I lived through so many other people's nightmares, you know. Always cool and calm, but... but I never thought I'd be the one needing help, ya know? 
 Let's hit the road, sooner we get a move on sooner we'll find her. 
! 
 (off screen) God damn bitch, what the fuck are you waiting for... Charles Nelson Reilly don't know shit... 
 (gesturing at the TV with a knife) Watch that bitch, she's thinking about that Klugman bangin' Brett Sommers, pick motherfucking Richard Dawson. 
 He's the fucking slick jack Match Game man, mamma. 
 Where do they find these people? 
 MR. WILLIS Christ, four kids couldn't just disappear. 
 MR. WILLIS My Denise is a smart girl, she wouldn't do anything stupid, and her boyfriend, he always seemed like a good kid. 
 I'm sure there's a logical explanation. 
 MR. WILLIS I pray to God there is. 
 MR. WILLIS Where we headed? 
 I seem to remember another farm set way back off the road where the car was found. I'm not sure if anyone lives there anymore, but it's worth a look. 
 I'm gonna see if anybody's home. You and Mr. Willis take a look around the grounds for any sign of anything. 
 Otis! Otis! Come quick, there's cops outside. 
 What! God damn, how many? 
 (watching TV) What? How many? 
 Don't worry about it. 
 I don't know. I only saw one. 
 I'm sure there's more than that... fucking pigs always travel in packs... (handing the gun to Mother) ...here, take this. 
 (takes the gun) What should I do? 
 Go down stairs and play nice... I'm a gonna go 'round back and handle things like I always fucking do. 
 MR. WILLIS Shhhh... you hear that? 
 MR. WILLIS Over here, inside the smokehouse. 
 MR. WILLIS We gotta break it open. 
 MR. WILLIS Tell it to my daughter. 
 (trying to be sexy) Well hello, officer. 
 (holding up his badge) Excuse me, I'm sorry for disturbing you this fine afternoon. 
 Aw, you ain't disturbing me, but it kind of looks like rain, don't ya think? 
 My name is Lt. Wydell, I'd like to ask you a few questions. 
 Questions? Well, heck, I'll tell you anything you want to know. 
 I appreciate your cooperation. I'm looking for a missing girl... (holds up picture) ...this girl here, Denise Willis... have you seen her? 
 Well, I... mmmmm... no, I ain't seen her, sorry. 
 Please, could I please come in and talk to you for a minute? Maybe you could take a better look at the picture... might stir up something. 
 I um... no, I don't think so... 
 Please, just a minute. 
 Oh, alright... I guess I can trust you... being a man of the law and all. 
 Thank you. 
 Oh, you are very welcome... Lord knows how I love a man in uniform. 
 MR. WILLIS Call Wydell. 
 Think... do any of these kids look familiar in any way? 
 No, I can't say that I ever seen 'em before... (points to the photo of Bill) ...he looks familiar, is he on TV? 
 Excuse me for a second. 
 Over. 
 MR. WILLIS Right. 
 Hands up, bitch! 
 Turn around, real slow... piggy-pie. 
 Interlock your fingers behind your head... (Naish hesitates) ...do it! 
 Kneel. 
 DR. WOLFENSTEIN It is midnight my little boils and ghouls, the witching hour. Time for all monsters, murderers, maniacs and madmen to go to work... so lock your doors and bolt your windows, sit back and prepare for a fright night classic... (lightning crashes) ...The House of Frankenstein. 
 (slurred drunken yelling at the screen) Get those motherfucker... those high water bitches and rocketship daisies... kill 'em, kill 'em. 
. (shouting through megaphone) Show me, show me, show me, show me! 
 Drink up, it's party time. 
 Enjoy your last night... (looking around) ...where's Otis? 
 Oh, he's coming, he got something real special this year. 
. Otis, Otis, Otis, Otis! 
 Quiet, quiet, you know he won't come down with all this hoop-dee-doo bouncing off the walls. Now, calm down. 
 I shot an elephant in my pajamas this morning... how he got in my pajamas I'll never know. 
 Grampa, shhhhhhhh. 
 Then we tried to remove the tusks, but they were embedded in so firmly that we couldn't budge 'em. 
 (gesturing at Grampa) Let him finish. 
 Of course, in Alabama the Tuscaloosa, but that's entirely irrelephant. 
 (through the megaphone) I'm the one who brings the Christmas candy... now tell me (pauses and raises his arms) ...Who's your Daddy? 
 I'm the one who brings the devil's brandy... (waits) 
 Who's your Daddy! 
 Yes! I'm the one who beats you when you're bad... 
 Who's your Daddy! 
 Who's your Daddy! 
 I'm the one who loves you when you're fucking dead! 
 (imitating Willis) Now, I say my little darlings... (rotates the chain to Mary) maybe prancing around where you don't belong ain't such a winner of an idea... (slaps Mary across the face) 
 And you, the great rusher of fools, what were you after... (slaps Jerry) Huh, speak to me... (slaps him again) Oh, that's right, Dr. Satan... everybody got to know about Dr. Satan, Jesus Christ, let the old dog rest for fuck sake, he's already got one foot in the grave and the other's tap dancing around the edge... (gets nose to nose with Jerry) ...well, I can see the disappointment on your sad little puppy face... so I'm gonna do you a favor, a big, big favor. You owe me, boy. I'm gonna let you meet the old bastard. 
 That's a horse's ass alright, I told you. 
 Baby, roll that old love machine over here, so this boy can meet his hero. 
 (lifts his skin mask) You see it's all true, the boogieman is real and you found him... (Jerry stares in shock) ...why so sad? Isn't this what you begged for? There he is, the living legend himself, ta da Dr. Satan. Now, don't get shy on me... ask your hero some questions, don't blow this last in a lifetime opportunity. 
 Zarkoff, I will conquer the sea, the air, the earth... the universe. 
 Look at the way he lights up... Grampa just loves meeting his fans. 
 Aw gee whiz, I'm so excited... I really think you're the coolest... you're tops on the playground, cooler than the Fonzie. 
 Oh, oh pick me, pick me... I have a question. 
 (squeezing Mary's face, hard) I was wondering Mr. Satan sir, do you like to kiss on the first date or is that considered slutty? 
 What the fuck are you saying? Who the hell is talking to me? 
 Come on, my babies are getting restless. 
. Dump in the pit, dump in the pit, dump in the pit. 
 Alright, alright. Cut 'em down, it's time they get what they came here for. 
 (handing Baby the lantern) Hold this. Point it over here. 
 Hey happy-boy, step your ass up here. 
 Take his gag out, it's more fun with the screaming. 
 Yeah, I like the screaming too... it's so much more exciting. 
 Please don't kill us, please don't kill us. 
 (imitating Jerry) Please don't kill us, please don't kill us. 
 Bitch, shut your mouth and get your shit in the box. 
 Let us go, please... let the girls go. 
 (imitating Jerry) Let us go, please... let the girls go. 
 Get in... now! 
 Wait, I want to say good-bye. 
 Bye sweety, we could of been great together. 
 Please, let us go, we won't tell anybody. 
 Aw, honey you know I can't do that. 
 We won't tell anybody. 
 Christ, ain't this fucking a hoot... alright mamma, I ain't got all fucking night. 
 Please, please this is insane. You can't do this. 
 It is and I can... next. 
 (laughs and raises his pistol) Where's she think she's a gonna get to? She's gonna run all the way home. 
 No! Let me get her... (turns to Mother) ...Ma, Otis is having all the fun... can I get her? 
 That's true, Otis... not that we're having a bad time, but... 
 (rolls his eyes) Well, go get her. 
 (O.S.) There once was a woman who lived with her daughter in a cabbage garden. 
 (O.S.) ...along came a rabbit and ate up all the cabbages. The woman said... 
 (O.S.) ..."Go into the garden and drive out the rabbit"... 
 "Shoo! Shoo!" said the maiden... 
 ..."Come maiden," said the rabbit... (leans down) ...sit on my tail and go with me to my rabbit hutch. 
 (hysterical) We've got get out of here, we got get out of here. 
 Think, think. Try to open the lid, try to kick a hole in the wood. 
 (crying) I can't... I can't move my arms. I hurt so much. 
 I know, but we can make it out of here. We can do it. 
 That was good babe, just keep doing that. 
 That's not me. I didn't... I'm not doing that. 
 Someone is out there... (shouting) ...help, we're in here! 
 Help, help us. 
 Jerry! Jerry! Jerry! 
 Jerry please answer me. 
 Jerry... (moving slowly forward) ...is that you? 
 Go, go! Drive... drive! 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Hold on, girly, what's the problem? 
 (becoming hysterical) Murdering... blood and Jerry... (starts to cry uncontrollably) ...monsters... I... I... I got away... 
 CAPT. SPAULDING Well, I don't see what the fuck you're getting at, but I got some friends that live just up this road. 
 
