 What kind is it? 
 O/S I don't know.    White. 
 And the frame? 
 O/S Dark. 
 Postmark? 
 O/S Same as last time. 
 No note. 
 O/S No. 
 I can't take it anymore. 
 O/S I know. I'm sorry, Henrik. 
 What is this, the media event of the year? 
 1 Don't try to play it down, Mikael, it won't work. 
 Don't try to play it up, that won't either. 4A   EXT. COURTHOUSE - STOCKHOLM - DAY - CONTINUOUS            4A 
 2 Will you appeal? 
 I'll appeal to you, Viggo:   Find a real story to cover. He hurries off in the rain. 
 V/O Financial journalist Mikael Blomkvist was found guilty today on 16 counts of aggravated libel against financier Hans-Erik Wennerstrom. 
 In an article published earlier this year, Blomkvist claimed Wennerstrom - founder and president of The Wennerstrom Group - used State funds intended for industrial development in Poland for an arms deal with the right-wing Ustashe in Croatia. 
 Marlboro Red ... and a lighter. 6   EXT. CAFE - MOMENTS LATER - DAY                               6 
 V/O Blomkvist was ordered to pay 600 thousand SKE in damages and all court costs, which could be significantly more. 
 Where you been? 
 Walking.    Thinking. 
 Smoking? 
 Just one. He sits, exhausted and depressed, in a cheap Poang chair. 
 TV4 called. I told them no statement until we've read the judgment in its entirety. 
 I have.    Who else? 
 Everyone who's ever wanted to see you humiliated. 
 You've been on the phone all day then. 
 I'm as much to blame for this as you. 
 You are?    You wrote it? 
 I read it.    I ran it. 
 Not the same. 
 Our credibility isn't dead, Mikael. 
 Mine is. They regard each other in another silence.      Then - 5. 5. 
 I'm tired. I feel like climbing under a duvet and sleeping for a week. 
 Alone? He thinks about it ... shakes his head `no.' 
 I already called Greger and told him I wouldn't be home tonight. 9    EXT. STOCKHOLM - SAME TIME - DAY                              9 
 It's possible we could wait forever. 
 You called her, I thought.     You spoke to her. 
 I'm afraid that doesn't mean much. 
 I don't understand. 
 No one here likes her. So it's better if she works at home. 
 But you told her I wanted to meet her. 
 But I've told her many more times I prefer her not to meet clients. 
 V/O But you like her. 
 V/O Very much. She's one of the best investigators I have. As you saw from her report - 
 But. 
 I'm concerned you won't like her. She's different. 
 In what way. 
 In every way. 13   INT. MILTON SECURITY - STOCKHOLM - SAME TIME - DAY          13 
 SECRETARY/INTERCOM Ms. Salander's here. 
 Lisbeth, Mr. Dirch Frode. 
 How do you do? 7. 7. 
 Something wrong with the report? 
 No. It seems quite thorough. There's a wealth of data here. But I'm also interested to know what's not in it. 
 There's nothing not in it. 
 Your opinion of him isn't. 
 I'm not paid to give my opinion. 
 So you don't have one? 
 He's clean.   In my opinion. 
 He's - excuse me? 
 He's honest. He's who he presents himself to be. In his business, that's an asset. 
 There's less in his asset column after his conviction today. 
 That's true. He made a fool of himself with that. If it happened that way. Frode looks at Armansky.    What's that supposed to mean? 
 If he made up the story, that's out of character. So is giving up without a fight. People don't do things that are out of character. 
 Are you saying he was set up? 8. 8. 
 That wasn't part of my assignment. 
 You're quite right he made a fool of himself professionally. How big of a fool did he make of himself financially? 
 The judgement will just about empty his savings. This seems to please Frode more than anything else that has been said, and Salander sees it. 
 May I go? 
 Your report is light in another area. His personal life. Anything you chose not to include? 
 Nothing that warranted inclusion. 
 I'm not sure if that means yes or no. 
 I think what Ms. Salander means, and I agree, is that everyone has a right to a certain amount of privacy, even when they're being investigated. 
 Not in this case. I have to know if there's anything about him I might find unsavory - even if she doesn't. 
 He's had a long sexual relationship with his co-editor. It wrecked his marriage, but not hers. Her husband accepts it. Sometimes she sleeps at Blomkvist's, sometimes at home. 
 You were right not to include that. 
 I know. 
 Anything else? 
 No. 
 Please think before you say no. 
 I did. 
 I don't want to be surprised by something later. 
 So. Nothing else. In the personal department. You're sure. 
 (pause) He likes sandwiches. A15   EXT. BLOMKVIST'S APARTMENT - ESTABLISHING                A15 
 Usually when I wake up in a cold bed, it's at home. 
 Sorry. 
 What are you doing? 10. 10. 
 Writing the press release. 
 Saying - 
 You're taking over as publisher. You're sorry for any nuisance Wennerstrom was caused. I can't be reached for comment. 
 You're giving up. 
 Just taking a few steps aside. For you. 
 This makes me sick. 16    OMIT:   INT. BOOKSTORE - STOCKHOLM - DAY                  16 
 You needed a better attorney.       You needed your sister. 
 She offered. 
 He declined. 
 As she hoped. 
 Never a good idea mixing family and business. 
 And I still would have lost. 
 Did you have ... anything on him. 
 I had a lot.    It just wasn't any good. 
 It wasn't even about Mikael. It was Wennerstrom sending a message to the press as a whole - and the FSA: Don't ask questions. 
 I'm fine, Nilla. You don't have to worry about me. 
 Mom's worried. 
 About me? 
 About all that money. 12. 12. 
 You're Mr. Palmgren's daughter? 
 His ward.   He doesn't have a daughter. 
 Please. 21   INT. ICU - SODER HOSPITAL - LATER - NIGHT                   21 Not allowed to go inside, she peers through glass at Palmgren, who is unaware of her, or the nurse attending him, or even himself. A spiderweb of tubes emerge from his neck and wrists; oxygen tubes from his nostrils. 
 V/O He's had severe cerebral hemorrhaging. Either from the fall itself, or a stroke that led to the fall. His blood pressure is still high. I'm hopeful he'll regain consciousness, but that's not assured. And it's possible, if he does, there will be neurological damage. 
 Nilla?    What are you doing? 
 Nothing. 
 (pause) You're not serious. 13. 13. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 I don't want to talk about it since I know you won't approve. 
 Of - (she doesn't say) Nilla. 
 Light of Life. 
 Light of - what? (she doesn't repeat it) What is that? 
 You think it's all senseless but it isn't. It's more natural to believe in something than not to. 
 Excuse me. Looking back at his daughter with some concern, he steps away to take the call. 
 Hello. 
 O/S Mr. Blomkvist? 
 Yes. 
 O/S Forgive me for intruding on your Christmas. My name is Dirch Frode. I'm an attorney. I represent Henrik Vanger. Perhaps you've heard of (him) - 
 Of course. 
 O/S He'd like to speak to you about a private matter. 14. 14. 
 You know, you're calling at an awkward time. 
 O/S I'm sorry. I'm about to sit down to Christmas dinner myself. 
 That's not what I mean. 
 O/S You're referring to your recent legal trouble. That has provided Mr. Vanger with some entertainment. 
 Excuse me? 
 O/S He doesn't care for Wennerstrom either. 
 Have him call me. 
 O/S He'd like to meet in person if that's okay. Up north. Hedestad. 
 No.   Sorry. 
 O/S He's much too old to make a trip to Stockholm, Mr. Blomkvist. Please. If you'd be so kind as to consider. 
 O/S Hedestad is lovely in winter.      Like a Christmas card. 
 First time in Hedestad? 
 And last, I'm sure. 
 It's lovely in the spring. 
 You said it was lovely in winter. 
 This is unseasonable. 
 I'll be on the 4:30 train back to Stockholm. 
 Unless we get snowed in ... I'm joking. You'll be home tonight, if that's what you wish. 
 Welcome.   Come inside.    It's warm. 16. 16. 
 Thank you for coming way out here. Anna, take Mr. Blomkvist's insufficient coat. Would you like to freshen up? We'll be having dinner later. For now, hot tea is waiting. Unless you'd like a drink instead. What would you like? 
 Mr. Blomkvist would like to be on the 4:30 train back to Stockholm. 
 What? 
 I can't stay for dinner. 
 Oh. I guess I'd better be quick then. Thank you, Dirch. Mikael, this way. 29   INT.'S STUDY - DAY                                   29 
 What do you know about me? 
 That you used to run one of the biggest industrial firms in the country. 
 Used to.   That's correct. 
 My grandfather forged the tracks the 4:30 train will take you home on - and most of the other pre-state-owned rail lines.   We stitched this country together. We made the steel and milled the lumber that built modern Sweden. (pause) You know what our most profitable product now is? (Blomkvist doesn't) Fertilizer. 
 I'm not obsessed with the declining health of the company, but I am with the settling of accounts - and the clock is ticking. I need your help. 
 Doing. 
 Officially, assisting me with my memoirs. But what you'd really be doing is solving a mystery. And you'd do that by doing what you do so well - this recent legal mishap of yours notwithstanding. You'd be investigating thieves, misers, bullies, and malcontents - the most detestable collection of people you'll ever meet ... my family. A30   EXT. SALANDER'S APARTMENT - ESTABLISHING                 A30 
 V/O This is Harriet. The granddaughter of my brother Richard. 
 Richard, who I may as well start with to get it out of the way, was a Nazi of the first order - joining the Nationalist Socialist Freedom League when he was 17. 19. 19. 
 Isn't it interesting how fascists always steal the word freedom. (Blomkvist checks his watch) The 4:30. Yes. Okay. Anyway, Richard died a martyr to the Nazi cause in 1940 - missed all the real excitement - but not the opportunity to regularly beat his wife Margareta and their son, Gottfried. 
 Now, Gottfried - Harriet's father - was what people used to call a Good- Time-Charlie. 
 They're still called that. 
 Are they?   Okay. INSERT:   Close on a photo of Gottfried. 
 He was a charmer, a ladies man, a drunk. In other words, a born salesman - which is what he did for the company - traveling around, taking clients out to dinner and so on. 
 Someone has to do it. 
 That's right. Anyway, he died in 1965. Drowned. Drunk. Here on the island. A studio photo: Gottfried with his wife and two children. 
 His wife Isabella - who was pretty much useless before as a parent - became even more so after his death - which is when I began looking after their children - Martin - who runs Vanger Industries now that I'm retired - and Harriet. 20. 20. 
 She was bright and curious, a winning combination in any person. 
 And beautiful. Vanger nods as he regards the photo ... 
 Something happened to her? 
 Someone in the family murdered Harriet and for the last forty years has been trying to drive me insane. 33   OMIT:   INT. SALANDER'S APARTMENT - STOCKHOLM - DAY       33 34   EXT. TRAIN STATION - HEDESTAD - DUSK                      34 
 It was September 21st, 1966.    A Saturday. Harriet was 16. 
 V/O My brothers - along with their wives, children and grandchildren - had gathered here for our loathsome annual board meeting and dinner. It was also the day the Yacht Club held its Autumn parade. 
 V/O Harriet and a couple of school friends had gone into town to watch it. She returned a little after two o'clock. 38   INT.'S PARLOR - DAY - 1966                         38 
 V/O She came to the parlor. She asked if she could talk to me. I honestly don't remember what I was doing that I thought was more important, but I told her to give me a few minutes. She leaves.   He returns to the others in the room. 
 V/O But in a few minutes, before I could go upstairs to talk to her, something else occurred. 
 V/O The accident had nothing to do with Harriet - and everything. 
 V/O It was chaos as everyone dropped what they were doing. 
 V/O Police, an ambulance, fire brigade, reporter, photographer and onlookers quickly arrived from town, as those of us on the island - the family - hurried to the bridge from our side. 22. 22. 
 V/O The driver of the car - a Mr. Aronsson - was pinned and severely injured. All we could do was try to pry him out with our hands - since metal tools could spark. 
 V/O About twenty minutes after the crash, Harriet was in the kitchen. Anna herself saw her. 42    INT. KITCHEN - MANOR - DAY - 1966                  42 
 V/O We finally got poor Aronsson out of his car and off to the hospital, and those of us on our side drifted back to the house. 
 V/O The sun was down, the excitement over, we sat down to dinner. That's when I noticed Harriet wasn't there. 
 V/O And she wasn't there the next morning. Or the next. Or the next forty years. 
 What was she going to tell me? Why didn't I make time for her? Why didn't I listen? 
 She couldn't have run away? 
 Not without being seen. 
 Firemen stayed on the bridge all night pumping out the gasoline. And no one swam across, or took a row boat. All of them were still tied up on this side Sunday. Believe me, we checked. 45B   INT. MANOR - DUSK - PRESENT DAY                   45B 
 She couldn't have fallen and drowned? 
 The currents aren't strong here. Anything that falls into the water turns up nearby. Like her father. His body didn't drift more than ten meters when he drowned the year before. Vanger's pauses at a landing to steady himself and his labored breathing. 
 No. Someone killed her, Mr. Blomkvist. Someone on the island that day. Someone close enough to know what she used to give me each year on my birthday. He unlocks the door of the attic and pushes it open to reveal a cluster of nine dusty framed dried flowers on a wall. 24. 24. 
 These were from her. 
 These, from her killer. Blomkvist regards the forty ... 
 Who knows about these? 
 Me, the police, the murderer ... and now you. 
 V/O When the police investigation petered out, I kept at it - 25. 25. 
 - studying their reports and interviews, all the information there was, and it's a lot. I've spent half my life examining the events of a single day. And for all that, he's no closer to the truth. 
 I understand your frustration. But what you're asking me to do is a waste of money. 
 We haven't discussed your fee. 
 We don't need to. I can't find something you haven't been able to in forty years. 
 You don't know that. You have a very keen investigative mind. 
 Here's what I propose: You come stay on the island. I have a nice little cottage by the water you can use. You study the material I give you. You find something I've missed - or you don't. 
 You want me to set aside my life and career for something that's a complete waste of time. 
 Think of it as a well deserved vacation. A way of avoiding all the people you want to avoid right now. (nothing from Blomkvist) As for compensation, I'll pay you twice your salary for as many months as it takes. I'll quadruple it if you solve the mystery. 26. 26. 
 Mr. (Vanger) - 
 I'm not done. I'll throw in one more thing - even though you're a terrible negotiator. It's what you want more than anything else and it can't be bought at any price. I'll give it to you ... Hans-Erik Wennerstrom. 
 He began his career working for me. And I've followed it with interest, shall we say, ever since. You were right about him. You just couldn't prove it. 
 Would you like to sit? I could possibly clear a place if necessary. 
 Did you make it? 
 Have you something for me? 
 I'm on welfare; I don't administer it. This isn't enough. 27. 27. 
 I had to pay three months back rent and eat a little bit. It's all I have right now. 
 I find that so poignant. So much so that he does nothing more than look at her. She reaches to take the money back, but he pockets it and moves across the dark room to a work table where high-end computers fight for space with debris. Finds and gives her a small homemade electronic box, which she turns over in her hands. 
 No `thank you?' 51    INT. MILLENNIUM OFFICE - EARLY MORNING                    51 
 V/O You can't be serious - 
 We're in our worst crisis ever and you're writing a memoir? 
 You fired me; I need something to do. 
 You fired you; I need you here, not the North Pole. You know what this is going to look like. 
 Like I've been gutted. Like I'm running away. I am. They cross through the building, he with his cases, she with her coffee cup. 28. 28. 
 Wennerstrom wants to see me waving a white flag, not a red one. And the more it looks like there's a problem between you and me, the more it'll satisfy him. 
 There is a problem between us. He won't be satisfied until he shuts us down, and you're leaving me to fight him alone. 
 It's four hours by train.   It's not the North Pole. 52   EXT. TRAIN STATION - HEDESTAD - DAY                      52 The depot thermometer reads 0. Blomkvist disembarks with two suitcases. This time, Frode isn't there to meet him. He struggles with his luggage through the snow to a taxi stand. 53   INT. TAXI - MOVING - DAY                                 53 
 Think this snow's going to let up anytime soon? 
 This is the North Pole. 
 What.   Milk? 
 It's me. I'm here. It's fucking cold and I'm on a pay phone. If you tried to call, the reception sucks, and if you tried to email, there's none of that either, so - so - I'm here - and - I can't even speak it's so fucking cold. 
 I'm Gunner.   The caretaker. 65   INT. COTTAGE - LATER - DAWN                               65 
 You're an author. 
 I'm writing a biography of Mr. Vanger, yes. 
 I saw you on television. 
 That's unfortunate. 
 Bit of trouble, I guess. 
 No jail time, though. That's good. Cost you a lot of money though, yeah? 31. 31. 
 There. 66   EXT. VANGER ESTATE - DAY                                  66 
 The island is owned by my family. Your closest neighbor is my brother Harald, another Nazi if you can believe. Two in the family. He's detestable to put it nicely, but you'll probably never see him. He's a recluse. 
 He was there that day? 
 Indeed he was. 
 That's his daughter Cecilia's house. They don't speak. 
 Does anyone speak to anyone on this island? 
 Actually, Isabella - Harriet's mother - who lives there - (points) - she speaks to Harald - which is one of reasons I don't speak to her. (points) Cecilia's brother Birger lives there. 
 Who doesn't he speak to? 
 You, probably. Not that you'd want him to. He can be as unpleasant as Harald. 32. 32. 
 I'm quickly losing track who's who. 
 Oh, how you'll wish were it always so. Soon you'll know us all only too well - with my apologies. (points) Out there is my nephew Martin's house; Harriet's brother. 
 Who speaks to him? 
 I speak to him. He runs the company now, as I think I told you. 
 Someone shooting their dinner. Gunner probably. The caretaker. 
 I just met him. 
 He was 19 when Harriet disappeared. 
 He lives over there. 
 And you live here. 
 Sorry? 
 Your house. 
 Yes, you're right. The man who hires the detective should always be kept on the suspects list. 66A   OMIT - INT. COTTAGE - DAY                                      66A 
 I got a call from social welfare. I've been assigned a new guardian. 
 I'd like to see the girl's room. 
 It's down the hall. 34. 34. 
 I thought this was your house. 
 It is.    She lives with me. 
 Are her parents alive? 
 Her mother is. 
 This way. Morell follows Vanger down a hall - 
 DET. MORELL I want to speak to everyone here. That'll take all night so you might want someone to put some coffee on. 
 What about the search? 
 First thing in the morning. 
 No. We should do it now. She could be hurt out there. 
 Please.   I beg you. INTERCUT: Blomkvist reads, "authorized our patrol boat and two volunteer craft to begin 12:20 a.m. - G. Morell." 35. 35. 
 V/O We searched for days ... 
 V/O Eventually, much to his dismay - and mine - I had to talk to Henrik about calling it off - 
 V/O The fact that I never found a body didn't surprise me. You can't dig up an entire island. A77   OMIT: EXT. CABIN - LAKE SILJAN - ESTABLISHING            A77 
 But   I also couldn't find a motive. Was   it spontaneous? Was it planned? Did   she know something someone wished she   didn't? Was it about business? 
 Business?   She was sixteen. 
 And very bright. Henrik told me he could easily imagine her running the business someday, which would mean someone else wouldn't. 
 She was with some friends that day. At a parade. You must have talked to them. 
 She told them she wasn't feeling well. She left early. But they also said she kept secrets from them, too. The main thing I learned talking to them for hours is that teenage girls are complicated. 
 I have one. 
 So you know. (Blomkvist does indeed) Did you bring the last gift Henrik received? 
 It's at the National Forensic Lab. 
 I can tell you what their report will say now: It's a flower common to Europe. All of them are. No prints. No DNA. He lights the pipe.   Blomkvist watches the tobacco glow. 
 I wanted to ask you about this. 
 She received this from Henrik the Christmas before. I studied it more times than I can say. I know every page of it. 
 It's the last page I'm curious about. 
 As was I. 
 The only names not alphabetized. Morell nods that he knows that only too well as he turns to that last page. On it, in neat handwriting: Magda 32016 Sara 32109 R.J. 30114 R.L. 32027 Mari 32018 
 They're local Hedestad phone numbers. The first belonged to a woman named Margot, whose mother was Magda, who claimed she didn't know Harriet. The fourth, R.L., belonged to Rosemarie Larsson, an elderly woman who died a few years before. The other three were unconnected in any way that I could find. He hands the address book back. It, and everything else about the case, clearly trouble him still. 
 I've reminded you of things you'd rather forget. I'm sorry. 
 I can't forget it. It's my Rebecka Case. 
 Every policeman has at least one unsolved case. Back then it was old Torstensson. Year after year he kept returning to one - taking out the files - uselessly studying them. As young men, we had to laugh. 
 Was this also a missing girl case? 38. 38. 
 No, that's not why I mention it. The Rebecka Case is something that happened before Harriet was born. I'm talking about the soul of a policeman. Poor Torstensson could never solve it, and could never let it go. And neither can poor Morell with his Harriet case. 78   EXT. STOCKHOLM - DAY                                      78 
 How's Mr. Palmgren doing? I was told he had a stroke of some kind. (nothing from Salander) Terrible. 
 What exactly do you do at this security company? 
 Make coffee and sort mail. 
 But not full-time. Not even part- time consistently. They somehow got along without coffee or mail in July and August? 
 How much do you earn there? 
 Enough. 
 How much is your rent? 39. 39. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 I pay my rent. 
 When's the last time you were late? 
 Never. 
 Do you think that ring in your eyelid makes you attractive? 
 Here's the problem. There a discrepancy between the obligation of Mr. Palmgren's guardianship and the management of your finances. 
 It isn't a discrepancy or a problem. It was clear to him I could manage my own finances. 
 But that's not clear to me. 
 I'm not a child. 
 No.  You're not. (looks at her too long) But you were. And between then and now - (indicating the files) - two years in the locked ward at St. Stephens, for violent aggression - failure to adapt to four foster homes and seven schools - arrested twice for intoxication, twice for narcotics use, and most recently for assault: a bottle smashed into a man's face. You may have conned Mr. Palmgren into thinking you've improved, but looking at this - (the file) - not to mention how you're looking at me now - I can see you haven't. So the Good-Old-Mr-Palmgren-Days are over. Starting now, you'll be given a monthly allowance. You'll provide me with receipts for your expenses. (MORE) 40. 40. 
 BJURMAN (CONT'D) If the numbers don't balance, I'll have to assume the difference is going to drugs. 
 I've been on my own since I was twelve. 
 No. You've been a persistent burden to the State since you were twelve. 
 BJURMAN (CONT'D) Ms. Salander? Please look at me. Because this is important. She does ... in a way that says, I'd like to kill you. 
 This behavior you're displaying right now is elaborately documented here - (in the file) - so it would come as a shock to no one if I chose an alternative to the lenient arrangement I just outlined. Is that what you're saying with your silence? You'd prefer institutionalization? 79A   INT.'S OFFICE BUILDING - DAY                     79A Salander steps into the elevator, hits the down button. As the doors close - 
 Mikael? (he manages a nod) We're going to the same place. Hop in. 
 I found him at death's door halfway up the hill. 
 I'm afraid I'm a bit out of shape. 
 No, it's a climb for anyone. I should've warned you. Come on in. 
 I used to work in the company's petrochemical division in Goteborg. When it was sold, I went with it. 
 A dark day. 
 I live in Hong Kong now, but come back to Stockholm for family events, and when I do, I drive up to spend a couple days with Martin. 
 She comes for the moose steak. 
 Is that what this is? 
 Something's open. You like this one, or would you like to try something else? 
 That one's good. 
 I saw you on Sky News a while ago. 42. 42. 
 That was a dark day. 
 Sorry to remind you of it. 
 It's okay. There are worse things than libel - though I can't immediately think of one in my business. 
 You're writing a book now, Martin said. 
 Henrik's biography. 
 I love Henrik. He's fascinating. Martin, too. Together they're the Old Sweden and the New. 
 They are. 
 You know about Harriet, right? 
 You don't? 
 I do. 
 O/S The family doesn't like to talk about it, but it can't just be swept under the rug. 
 What can't. 
 Harriet. 
 Maybe we could talk about that later. 
 We can talk about it now. (Blomkvist glances to Liv) Liv knows everything about my crazy family. Which is why she'll never marry me. 
 That's one reason. 
 Don't put that in your book. Anything else is fine. Harriet certainly. Everything changed after that. Not just the family, but the company. 
 How so. 
 We're not Nordea or Ericsson, but we're still the largest family-owned company in the country. At the height, we had 40,000 employees. We have about half that now, and that downward slide - anyone can tell you - began after my sister's death. It broke Henrik's entrepreneurial spirit, and his heart. 
 You were here that day? 
 Everyone was here, though I didn't get in until after the accident on the bridge. The 4:30 train. 
 I know it well. 44. 44. 
 It was a terrible day. And the days after - searching and not finding her - were even worse. Liv sets her hand atop her boyfriend's. 
 This event, Mikael, has to be a big part of your book. 
 Hi. I thought I'd come over and say hello. I'm Cecilia. 
 We're all uncomfortable with the idea of a chronicle of our family. 45. 45. 
 It's not about the family. It's about Henrik and the company. 
 Like I said. 
 It's not my intention to present a malicious portrait of anyone. 
 Unlike the one that landed you in court. 
 Unlike that one. Correct. 
 So, what you're saying is, you're not really here to look into what happened to Harriet. 
 I can't ignore such a dramatic event, but no, that's not by any means my focus. 
 So all those boxes Gunner carted down here - which are where? - in the closet now? - weren't Henrik's private investigation. (Blomkvist can't think fast enough to respond) I wonder sometimes who's crazier - my Nazi father or my obsessed uncle. INSERT of the photo of Young Harald in his Nazi uniform on the wall. 
 Since we're talking about it, since you brought it up, what was Harriet like? 
 I'm sure Henrik has told you. 
 He was my age then, and so couldn't know what was really going on with a teenager any more than I can with my own daughter. You were her age. 46. 46. 
 Actually, my sister Anita was closer to her in age. 
 She knew Harriet better than anyone - certainly better than I did. You should talk to her. 
 I'd love to, where is she. 
 If I had to guess - London. 
 You don't know where your own sister lives? 
 I haven't seen her in years.       We never really got along. 
 I'm getting used to that comment. 
 That's the way it is when you're always after the same boys. 
 People generally get over that sort of thing at a certain point. 
 Oh, I'm long over it, and won't ever have to worry about it again. She hates this place even more than I do. She left, moved to London and that was it. You couldn't pay her to send a Christmas card, much less visit. 
 I'll try to track her down for you. 
 Don't bother. 
 For myself then. 
 If you do, and try talking to her about us, don't be surprised if she tells you to fuck off. 86   INT. MACJESUS - DAY                                         86 
 You backed up? 
 Hard drives at home, yeah. 
 That's good.    This one's dead. 
 V/O I'm sorry, he's booked all day. 
 It'll take five minutes.      It's important. 
 V/O Hold, please. Salander waits. Watches people stare at her like they always do. The secretary comes back on. 
 V/O Seven o'clock. 
 Have you ever had an STD? (nothing from her) When's the last time you were tested for HIV? (MORE) 48. 48. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 BJURMAN (CONT'D) (nothing) How many partners have you had in the last month? (nothing) How many were men? That last one seems to amuse him; none amuse her. 
 I'm required to ask you these things. It's a matter of health. 
 Write down anything you want. Bjurman sighs. Sets the form aside and looks at the McJesus invoice again. 
 Why do you need such an expensive computer? 
 For work. 
 Making coffee and sorting mail. 
 I shouldn't even have to ask. I should have control of my money like before. 
 And you will. Once you show me you can be sociable and get along with people. Can you do that? (nothing from her) Shall we start with me? (pause) Shall we start now? 
 If you're nice to me, I'll be nice to you. That's how normal people are. 
 You've done this before.   You know what to do. (MORE) 49. 49. 
 BJURMAN (CONT'D) (she doesn't do anything) Do you want this computer or not? 
 You feel that? That's gaberdine. Unzip them. (she does) And ... (she tugs at his underwear) And ... (she doesn't move; he smiles) I like the reticence. I prefer a whore who pretends she isn't. It's almost convincing. He grabs her hair and roughly pulls her head toward him. 90   INT.'S OFFICE - LATER - NIGHT                      90 Salander eats some toothpaste in Bjurman's private bathroom. When she returns to the office, she finds him calmly writing a check. 
 Here you go.   As promised. 
 I know you're not thinking about telling anyone about our date. Enjoy your computer games. She takes the check and leaves. 
 Excuse me. I'm sure I should have made an appointment. 
 It's fine.    Please.     Have a seat. 
 I'm Mikael. 
 Mikael.   How do you do. 
 You're looking for investment counseling, Mikael? 
 I would if had any money to invest. 
 Excuse me? 
 I'm writing a biography of your uncle Henrik. That's why I'm here. She stares at him. He waits for the response Cecilia predicted, but it doesn't come. 95   EXT. CAFE - LONDON - DAY                                    95 
 How is Henrik? 
 Good.   Engaging. I like him. 
 I haven't seen him in over 30 years. Or my sister. Or anyone else in my family. 
 Most of what I'm writing about predates that, so your recollections are valid. 
 I wouldn't know where to start, if that was a question. 
 I can narrow it. I've gotten up to the 1960s. To the event that altered everything in Henrik's life. 
 Harriet. (he nods) Everything I knew about that I told to - whatever his name was - that policeman - when it happened. 
 Morell. 
 My recollections then were a lot better than they are now. 
 I'm not speaking of the crime itself. I'm trying to get a clearer sense of what Harriet was like. Particularly, toward the end. 
 She was messed up. Like all us Vanger kids. Crazy mother. Drunken father. At least hers wasn't a Nazi like mine. 
 Was he abusive? 
 Mine? 
 Hers. 52. 52. 
 I never saw it myself, but you could tell something was going on. One day she'd be withdrawn. The next she'd be putting on makeup and wearing the tightest sweater she had to school. The next she'd be studying a Bible like a nun - no Vanger was ever religious - can you imagine? Obviously, she was very unhappy. 
 She never confided in you what about, specifically? 
 There was no specifically. It was everything. It was being part of that family. Henrik's the only decent person in it. 
 What do you think happened to her? 
 Everyone knows what. 
 But you have no ... thoughts about why, or who. 
 All I know is I always felt sorry for her. Even more than for myself. I got out of there when I was 18 and never went back. She would have done the same but didn't make it to 18. 96   EXT. STOCKHOLM - DAY                                     96 
 Mr. Bjurman, please. It's Lisbeth Salander. (the call is put through) ... I'm fine. I'm sorry I missed our appointment. I had a lot of work ... no, nothing to be concerned about ... I need another advance on my allowance. Can I come to your office tonight? ... I don't need a pen, what's the address? 53. 53. 
 O/S Yes? 
 It's me. 
 Come on in. 
 Like it? 
 It's nice. 
 It's home. (pause) So, what do you need money for this time? Grand Theft Auto 5? 
 Food. He smiles.    Steps toward her.    Lifts her chin. 
 How are you? Been thinking about last time? Decided you wanted to see me again? 54. 54. 
 I just want my money. 
 Well, let's see if I can help you out with that. 
 Wait. 
 Is there a problem? 
 I just want to know, am I going to have to do this every time I need money to eat? 
 It's so cute when you do that surly thing. Take my hand She reaches out to it and before she can react, there's a handcuff around the wrist. He quickly cuffs the other to his own wrist. This is bad. She tries to get out. He gets her in a strangle hold and chokes her into unconsciousness. 100A   INT.'S APARTMENT - LATER - NIGHT                 100A 
 Please.   I have neighbors. 
 What we're going to do now is teach you the value of money. 
 I forget - did I ask you before if you liked anal sex? 
 V/O Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Through faith we understand that the world was created by the word of God - and that what is seen was not made of things that are visible ... 
 I'll drive you home. 
 I can get home on my own. 
 Are you sure? 
 So, next Saturday, here? 56. 56. 
 Is it any warmer inside? 
 No. 
 What have I missed besides you? 
 The steady exodus of two-thirds of our advertisers. 
 Seriously? 
 Is that hard to believe? Sitting up here in Lappland with your cat? 57. 57. 
 I'm not.   I'm working. 
 I can see. What she can see is the Vanger research covering the walls and table surfaces, and that the threads of the family tree lead to a photograph of Vanger at the top. 
 Would you like to meet him? 
 Maybe in about an hour.      If you're interested. 
 I apologize if you're having financial problems at the magazine in Mikael's absence. 
 We'll work through them. 
 Are you sure? 
 How long do you think you can hang on? Six months or so? 
 That sounds about right. 
 (cheerfully) You know, I used to be in the newspaper business. We owned six dailies back in the 50's. 
 We still own one. The Courier, here in town. 58. 58. 
 I let my nephew Birger run it since he can't run anything else. 
 So what do you say to taking on a partner? 
 We've never considered it before. We value our independence. 
 Your independence is dependant on advertisers - if we're being honest. However much you think that is, you'd retain. We don't care about content. 
 Excuse me.   Did I miss something? 
 We're talking about an investment in the magazine. 
 I gather.    Why would you want to do that? 
 Not for the return, that's for sure. 
 (to Erika) I feel bad that I've take Mikael away from you at the worst possible time. This is the right thing to do. The moral thing. That's one reason. 
 And. 
 The enemies of my friends are my enemies. I hate Wennerstrom as much as you hate what he's done to you. Silence. 
 So what do you say? 59. 59. 
 Is that a maybe? She nods. 
 Wonderful!   More wine, Anna. 
 I think Mikael is adapting well to rustic life, by the way. 
 Have you seen him try to make a fire? 
 Put the logs on end, like this. 
 How long have you been discussing this with them? 
 I haven't been. They asked me to come up yesterday. 
 Why didn't you tell me? 
 Why would I.   You live in the woods. 
 So I deserve to be treated like an idiot? 
 I wanted to hear what they had to say. You would've said no before they could. 
 I'm saying it now. It's not a good idea. 60. 60. 
 You heard me tell them we could hang on for six months. I was lying. Without their money we'll be out of business in three. 
 You don't know this family.   They're crazy. 
 We're not marrying into it. 
 We are if we do this. It's exactly what we're doing. 
 You want to say no? Let's say no. Instead of 50 percent of something, let's own 100 percent of nothing. 
 O/S Mikael? 
 What. 
 O/S I'm leaving this God-forsaken island in the morning. 
 So? 
 So are you coming to bed or not. 
 You thinking one arm or both? 
 Wrists and ankles. But none of these. Just a plain band, like handcuffs. 61. 61. 
 It's sensitive there. Particularly the ankles. It's gonna hurt. 
 How much do one of those cost? 
: 
 Petrochemical manufacturer Vanger Industries has acquired a controlling interest in Millennium magazine which according to analysts has been in financial trouble since last December when its cofounder Mikael Blomkvist was found guilty of libel against Hans-Erik Wennerstrom - 111   INT. MILLENNIUM'S OFFICES - DAY                           111 
 We made a serious mistake last year, and we regret it. But we're moving forward, and this is the first step. 
 2 You wouldn't say the first step was your sacking of Mr. Blomkvist? 
 That's inaccurate. Read the original press release, Viggo. I didn't fire him. He's on sabbatical. 
 2 Where. 
 I'm not sure, to be honest with you. 
 Millennium is an excellent magazine. We also think it's undervalued right now, which is good business for us. 
 3 Is any magazine really undervalued today. How many will be around tomorrow? 
 There's another reason.      I don't like bullies. 
 3 Are you referring to Mr. Wennerstrom? 
 I'm referring to anyone who tries to sue their enemies into submission. If Mr. Wennerstrom would like to try it again, he'll find himself fighting a company that can afford to fight back. 
 3 You're enjoying this. 
 Already it's the most fun I've had in years. 
 I want to look at what the paper has in its archive on the parade. 
 V/O You already have what it has.    In the album. 
 I don't think so. 
 V/O Why. 
 Because no photographer at any newspaper in the world takes just two photos of anything - especially after having to climb a flight of stairs. 
 V/O The bridge accident happened during the parade. He rushed over. 
 Maybe. 
 V/O Mikael, what have you found? 65. 65. 
 Nothing probably. But I know photographers. They're the most insecure people on earth. If it's out of focus, or they don't like the framing, they bury it. A119   EXT. HEDESTAD COURIER - ESTABLISHING                   A119 
 September, 1966. 
 Thank you. 
 You're too young to know about that. PHOTO EDITOR Everyone here grows up knowing about her. It's how we're taught about strangers. 
 My dear Lisbeth, how are you? 66. 66. 
 I need more money. I need to pay my rent. She looks like a schoolgirl with her little backpack over her shoulder. How did he ever get so lucky? 
 Come on in. 
 Since we're still figuring out what you like, I went shopping for some new toys. 
 Me, too. 
 You, too?    What did you buy? 
 Good.   You're alive. 
 Recognize this? 
 I had it with me last time. I set it here. Remember? (he doesn't) See this snap? It's not a snap. It's a wide-angle micro-lens. 
 This shows you sodomizing a mentally impaired girl. If it's ever seen outside this room, who'll be institutionalized then? 
 Here's what's going to happen. Pay attention. 
 Look at me. 
 Do I have your attention now? 
 When you can walk again, which I admit could be a while, we're going to my bank. You'll tell them I alone have access to my account. After that, you'll never contact me again. Each month you'll write a report of a meeting we won't have. You'll describe how well I'm doing, how sociable I'm becoming. Then you'll negotiate with the court to have my declaration of incompetence lifted. If you fail, this video will spread across the Internet like a virus. (he stares in horror) (MORE) 69. 69. 
 SALANDER (CONT'D) If something happens to me - if I get hit by a car - if you hit me with a car - same thing, it uploads automatically. She fishes his apartment keys from his trousers. Shows him that she has them. 
 I'm taking these with me. I'll be checking on you. If I ever find anyone in here with you, whether she came of her own free will or not - His eyes dart to the TV as he nods that he understands. 
 No.   Not the video. 
 I will kill you. And he knows she means it. 
 Do you doubt anything I've said? (he shakes his head no) Do you doubt what's in the reports about me? What do they say when you sum them up? They say I'm insane. (he shakes his head no) No, it okay. You can nod because it's true. I am insane. 
 I know it'll be hard for you to abide by my rules. Especially no more sex. I'm going to make it easier for you. She puts on a plastic surgical mask. He fears the next thing he'll see is a pair of scissors in her hand, but it isn't. It's something else he doesn't recognize. She straddles him again. He squirms under her weight. 
 Lie still.   I've never done this before. 70. 70. 
 There will be some blood. He struggles to twist his body away, but it's useless. She digs the tattooing gun's needle into his chest and begins dragging it back and forth. He screams as dots of blood spatter her plastic mask ... A127   EXT. BJURMAN'S APARTMENT - DAWN - ESTABLISHING           A127 
 Hi. 
 Hi.   What are you doing here? 
 On my way to Skelleftea.    I can only stay a couple hours. He arrives and gives her a hug. 71. 71. 
 What's in Skelleftea? 
 Light of Life Bible Camp. Blomkvist tries to hide his dismay. 129B   INT. COTTAGE - DAY                                      129B 
 They're not dangerous. 
 It's fine, Nilla. Whatever you want to do is fine. Everybody needs something. 
 Just so long as it's not God. 
 I didn't say that. 
 I'm not around enough to know everything that's going on with you, and I apologize for that. But I'd never want you to not tell me something, even if you think I might not want to hear it. 
 (smiles) That's what I'm doing. 
 It should have been me visiting you. I'm sorry. 
 It's okay.   Everything's good. 72. 72. 
 Bye. 
 Bye. The train begins to move. 
 Don't go too hard on the Catholics. 
 What? 
 The article you're writing. 
 What are you talking (about) - 
 The Bible quotes on your desk. 
 What? 
 V/O If a dove is the sinner's offering, the priest shall wring off its head, cleave its wings, and burn it upon the altar. 73. 73. 
 Detective Morell, it's Mikael Blomkvist. 
 O/S How are you? Not still in Hedestad I hope for your sake. 
 The Rebecka Case you mentioned. What was her last name if you recall. 
 O/S Of course I do, but what would it have to do with anything? 
 Nothing probably. 
 O/S Jacobsson.   Rebecka Jacobsson. 
 How was she killed? 
 O/S Decapitated.   Arms cut off.    Burned. 
 O/S But this happened in the 1940's - 
 Hang on a second. 
 I'm going to call you back. 
 O/S What have you (found) - Blomkvist hangs up and takes off at a trot toward the bridge - 133   EXT. VANGER MANOR - LATER                                 133 
 What's happened? 
 We were talking. He started rubbing at his arm. Then collapsed. 
 Is he (conscious) - 
 I can't talk, Mikael, I have to (go) - 
 Go. 
 V/O The daughter of any priest who profanes herself by playing the harlot, profanes her father, and shall be burned with fire - 
 V/O A woman who is a medium or sorcerer shall be put to death by stoning - 
 The good news is he survived. How he does now, we have to see. He's in ICU. Can I have one of those? 75. 75. 
 A sandwich? 
 A Scotch. Blomkvist pours him one, and another for himself. 
 I don't want to be indelicate. But Henrik promised me something when I agreed to do this. 
 Wennerstrom. 
 (nods) I need to know what he has on him. Now. In case. 
 In case he dies? That is indelicate. 
 And I apologize. 
 I don't know what he has on him, if you're asking me. And he can't tell you in the condition he's in. So ... is that it then? Silence.   Blomkvist drinks.   Eventually - 
 We also never discussed who I'd report to if something happened to him. 
 You'd report to me, but does it matter? We both know nothing's going to come of this. 
 I'm not so sure. 
 What do you mean? 76. 76. 
 I may have found something. 
 (pause) You're joking. (Blomkvist isn't) What did you find? Now it's Blomkvist who studies Frode. He's not sure he wants to tell him. And even less so the longer he looks. 
 The last time I reported something before I was sure of it, it cost me my savings. 
 I need a research assistant.     Can you authorize that? 
 Yes.   Do you have one? 
 I can find one. 
 I know a good one. She did the background check on you. 
 The. 
 Do you think we'd hire anyone for something like this without doing one? Blomkvist's brain tries to quickly inventory his life, pausing at its darker recesses. Frode nods. 
 Yes, it was quite thorough. 
 I want to read it. 
 That I couldn't authorize. 77. 77. 
 Mr. Frode was kind enough to share your report with me. (it rests on his lap) The investigator's name is on it, but I can find no record of her, and I'm pretty good at that sort of thing. 
 Would it really matter what her name is? 
 It would if I wanted to speak to her, which I do. 
 Against policy. 
 You sure? 
 Just like your sources.   You understand. 
 Let me give you a name then. 
 My sister. She's a lawyer. (gestures to the report) There's information in here that could only have come from one place. I think you know what I mean. 
 The reason you can find no record of her is because her records have been sealed. She's a ward of the State. 
 What does that have to do with anything. 
 She's had a rough life.     Can we not make it rougher on her? 
 Who is it? 
 O/S Mikael Blomkvist. Her mind races, as Blomkvist's did to the news someone had invaded his privacy. She unlocks the door. Cracks it enough to see him. He smiles, but it's disconcerting. She's not sure it's a harmless one. 
 May I come in? 
 Actually I'm not really up (yet) - 
 That's okay. 79. 79. 
 I assumed you wouldn't have had breakfast yet so I brought some bagel sandwiches. And tomato juice. Good for hangovers. Where do you keep the coffee? 
 Hey.  Hey - (he stops; looks back) Who do you think you are? 
 I'm the guy you know better than my closest friends do. He opens cabinets looking for the coffee.       She stares. 
 We have a lot to talk about, so why don't you take a shower, put on some clothes and get rid of your girlfriend. 139   INT. SALANDER'S APARTMENT - LATER                             139 
 You're awake.    Good. Breakfast is ready. 
 I guess I alarmed you showing up like this. 
 If you touch me, I'll more than alarm you. 
 That won't be necessary. 
 Your report on me was quite detailed but for me not very entertaining. 
 It wasn't meant to be. 
 When I write about people, I try to entertain the reader. 
 Wennerstrom wasn't entertained. Blomkvist lets it go. 
 Your boss Armansky tells me you only work on things that interest you. I guess I should be flattered. He also says you're the one he goes to for jobs that are, `sensitive' is the word he used. I'll use `illegal,' since that what it was when you hacked into my computer. (they study each other) I'm not going to do anything about that. I could but I won't. What I'm going to do is tell you a story. If it entertains you, maybe you'll decide to help me research it further. If it doesn't, I'll wash the dishes and leave ... Are you going to even touch your food? 
 What kind of research? 
 Lisbeth - may I call you Lisbeth? I want you to help me catch a killer of women. 
 I've identified R.J. Her name's Rebecka Jacobsson. (MORE) 81. 81. 
 BLOMKVIST (CONT'D) I have no idea who the others are - or how they're connected to the death of a 16 year old girl - but they have to be. His eyes settle on her blue-black "handcuffs" as hers settle on a copy of an old Hedestad Courier front page: the article about the grisly murder of Rebecka Jacobsson. 
 We need to somehow figure out who they are, what happened to them, what the Leviticus verses have to do with (anything) - 
 What are you doing? 
 Getting started. You can keep talking if you want. Blomkvist, slightly taken aback, picks up the Leviticus Xerox from the floor. 
 Would you like this? 
 Got it. 
 I'm home. 
 DET. ISAKSSON No one's asked me about Magda in over 40 years. No one here even remembers her. 
 DET. ISAKSSON Why would a young lady like you want to know about such a brutal killing. 
 It interests me. 
 DET. ISAKSSON Does it. 
 DET. ISAKSSON What's that.   A wasp? 
 A friend of mine calls me that. 
 DET. ISAKSSON So you tattoo it on your neck? 
 DET. ISAKSSON Who's this friend? 
 My trainer. 
 DET. ISAKSSON Aerobics? 84. 84. 
 Boxing. 
 DET. ISAKSSON I have a feeling you're pretty good at that, even though you weigh - what - ninety pounds? (nothing from her) Float like a butterfly ... 
 What? 
 DET. ISAKSSON (smiles) Come with me, Muhammad. 161D   INT. KARLSTAD POLICE FILE ROOM - DAY                     161D 
 DET. ISAKSSON Her husband was our first suspect - the husband is always the first suspect, and usually the last - but not this time. We moved on to a neighbor. Then a vagrant - 
 DET. ISAKSSON Once you   get to strangers, it's only a matter   of time before you get to gypsies,   and you know you're never going to   solve it. And that troubles him still, that he never solved it. 
 How exactly was she killed? 
 DET. ISAKSSON Miss - I'm sorry - 
 Salander. 
 DET. ISAKSSON Miss Salander, if you don't mind my asking, when's the last time you ate? 85. 85. 
 I have a high metabolism.      I can't put on weight. 
 DET. ISAKSSON That's not why I ask. I ask because it's better to look at what I'm about to show you on an empty stomach. He pushes the folder across the table to her ... 161E   OMIT - 161E - 161I                                        161E 
 (to Frode) How is he? 
 He needs surgery and there's no DNR. So it's up to the family to decide to resuscitate or not, and they're not good at decisions. 
 How'd it go with Ms. Salander? 
 She said yes. 
 (to Frode) Can I see Henrik? 
 He was asleep when I last looked in. We can check. 86. 86. 
 No, you can't check. You can instruct him to pack his things and leave. 
 Mother - 
 Don't use that tone with me. (to Blomkvist) This family's had enough tragedy without you dredging it all up again. 
 Actually, Isabella, Mr. Blomkvist works for Henrik. 
 And who do you work for, Dirch? Remind me who pays your salary? 
 We should put this to a vote. 
 Don't be an idiot, Birger. 
 It's a family decision like any other. Cecilia? 
 What. 
 Am I right? 
 You are so seldom right about anything, it's hard for me to say yes. But (yes) - 
 No. We should do what Henrik wants, and we know what he wants. 
 Henrik - is in there fighting for his life. This - (points to Blomkvist like he's an object) - is the last thing he needs. 
 O/S Excuse me, Mrs. Vanger, you can't smoke in here. 
 Go back to Stockholm. When we want a false chronicle of the family written by a libelist, we know who to call. 161K   INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY                                  161K 
 HARRIET/PERNILLA If a man's offering is a lamb, it shall be a female without blemish. He shall lay his hand upon it's head ...slaughter it... empty it's blood on the base of the altar ... and he shall be forgiven. 
 DET. ISAKSSON Forget what she looks like, I vouch for her - 163    INT. POLICE STATION - UDDEVALLA - DAY                      163 
 DET. ISAKSSON O/S She's smart.     And she's serious about this. 88. 88. 
 This way, Miss. 
 Can I make copies? 
 I can make them for you if our machine's been repaired. 
 That's okay. 
 My family is impossible. It's why the company is such a mess. (MORE) 89. 89. 
 MARTIN (CONT'D) Please accept my apology for my mother's behavior. 
 It's all right. 
 It's not all right, she's unbearable. But it has nothing to do with you. It's between her and Henrik ... She lost it when my father died. The drinking - her state of mind - it all got so bad Henrik took me and my sister away from her, leaving her alone in our old house on the other side of the island like she was excommunicated. She's never forgiven him. And he seems as lost now as he must have been then. 
 You have to stay and keep working. You're Henrik's last chance at some kind of resolution. Put this to rest for him one way of the other, and I'll try to keep my mother away. But, please, do it as quickly as you can. 
 I'll (try) - 
 Lisbeth, this is Martin Vanger. 
 How do you do. 
 Fine. She comes past them without another word. Martin can't help noticing her wasp and handcuff tattoos. Looks after her as she disappears into the cottage. It's hard to believe, but he has to ask: 
 Girlfriend? 90. 90. 
 Assistant. 166A   INT. COTTAGE - MOMENTS LATER                           166A 
 Any trouble finding the place? 
 Everyone in town knows who and where you are. 
 That's comforting. Are you hungry? Want a sandwich? 
 No. Busy setting up her laptop on his desk, starting it up, sitting down at it, she's all but ignoring him. 
 I used to have a motorcycle.    When I was 19. 
 I know. She hands him her own dog-eared Bible and a copy of the list of names and initials he gave her - 
 The five cases from Harriet's list. And five more she missed - three I'm sure about. 
 Rebecka was the first, like you thought ... M.H., is Mari Holmberg - a prostitute in Kalmar - murdered in 1954. Leviticus verse 20, line 18. 91. 91. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 (reading from it) "If a man lies with a woman having her sickness, he has made naked her fountain and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood." 
 She was raped and stabbed, but the cause of death was suffocation with a sanitary napkin. R.L. Rakel Lunde, 1957 - Salander brings up more crime photos - 
 Cleaning woman and part-time palm reader, tied up with a clothesline, gagged, raped, head crushed with a rock. Leviticus 20:27. 
 "A woman who is a medium or sorcerer shall be put to death by stoning." She's lit a cigarette and brings up the next photos - 
 I only smoke outside. 
 (ignoring the comment) Sara Witt, 1964. Daughter of a pastor. Tied to her bed, raped, charred in the fire that burned down her house. Leviticus - 
 21:9. "The daughter of any priest who profanes herself by playing the harlot, profanes her father and shall be burned with (fire) - 
 (on top of his last word) Magda Lovisa Sjoberg, 1960 - 
 Found in a barn, stabbed and raped with farm tools. A cow in the next stall with its throat slit, its blood splashed on her, hers on it. 92. 92. 
 Leviticus 20:16 - "If a woman lies with any beast, you shall kill the woman and the beast, their blood is upon (them) - 
 (again on his last word) Lea Persson, 1962 - 
 Found by her sister in their pet shop - raped, beaten. The killer uncaged the animals, smashed the aquariums. There was a parakeet inside her. Leviticus 26:21/22. Before Blomkvist can find the verse, she's on to the next ones. More photos of murdered girls - 
 Eva Gustavsson, 1960. A runaway. Raped, strangled, a burnt pigeon tied around her neck. Lena Andersson, 1967, a student. Raped, stabbed, decapitated - 
 Okay - 
 I'm not done - 
 It's all right, we're looking for a serial murderer ... But what does it have to do with a 16-year-old girl on an island? 
 She was looking for him, too. 
 Rape. Torture. Fire. Animals. Religion. Anything I'm missing? 
 The names. They're all Biblical. The first woman, the whore, the Virgin Mary - Sara, Rakel - all from the Old Testament. 
 Which means they're Jewish names. 
 If there's one thing the Vangers have more than their share of, it's Nazis. There's one of them. 
 I can see why Armansky values you so highly. Your work is very good. 
 It interests me. 
 I'll take the couch. You can have the bed. 
 I can sleep on a couch. 
 So can I. 
 Okay. (heads off to the bedroom) Good night. 
 Night. She switches off the lamp.   Then, in a moment, in the dark - 
 Harriet's name isn't. 
 Isn't what. 
 Jewish. A170   EXT. COTTAGE - MORNING - ESTABLISHING                    A170 170    INT. COTTAGE - MORNING                                    170 
 O/S What are you doing? 
 Going over your notes. 
 They're encrypted. 
 Have some coffee. 
 I will. And then we'll have a talk about what's yours and what's mine. 
 It's amazing what you figured out from the parade photos. 
 Thank you. 
 Too bad you don't have hers. 
 Whose. 
 Her. 
 Excuse me. 
 Can you read that? 
 A, C, Three - the rest is blocked. 96. 96. 
 N, something, R, S, J - 
 Norsjo. 
 Then something, K, something, R, I, F, something, I - 
 Carpentry. (points below the letters) Is that a phone number? 
 Too small to read. 
 BLOMKVIST (ADR) I'm going to have to go to Norsjo. 
 I wouldn't think Harald would sign his name like this, would you? 97. 97. 
 I can't say I know how he thinks.    He might. 
 Has anyone spoken to him about me since I've been here? 
 Maybe Isabella. No one else. 
 Could she do something like this? 
 Who's this creature now? 
 I'm calling this off. 
 No. You're authorizing me to rent a car. 172AA   INT. HOSPITAL - LATER - DAY                            172AA 
 I'm sorry if that was uncomfortable. 
 They don't bother me. 
 I'm sure they're not used to people who look like you. 
 They don't like you either. 
 I can't give you any of this stuff without authorization from Mr. Armansky. 
 So call him. The clerk picks up a phone, but then sets it back down. Picks up the list again. 
 Next time, I'd prefer you fill out the proper paperwork. A175   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                        A175 
 NORSJO        SNICKERIFABRIK 
 1 Can I help you? 99. 99. 
 I'm waiting for the older gentleman, thanks. He gestures to a clerk in his 60's helping a customer. 178    INT. HARDWARE STORE - LATER                               178 
 The carpentry shop is gone. I don't know if he worked there or not. If he did, maybe he used to buy hardware here. 
 2 I don't recognize him.      Sorry. 
 I had to start somewhere.      Thanks. As he gathers up the photos to leave - 
 2 I'm no detective, but I think I would've started at the retirement home. Blomkvist looks up.    Not a bad idea. 
 This is Brannlund's kid.       He was a contractor, the father. 
 Brannlund. 
 Assar. 100. 100. 
 You wouldn't happen to know where I could find him, the son? 
 Next to his father at the cemetery. He was killed in an accident on a job site years ago. But she might be alive - (the woman in the picture) His widow. 
 In 1966, you were in Hedestad with your husband. 
 Photographer at the local paper. 
 You were taking pictures, too. Which I'd very much like to see if by some miracle you still have them. MILDRED It wouldn't be a miracle.    We were on our honeymoon. But why? 
 This girl was killed that day, soon after seeing something across the street that frightened her. 
 Would you mind if I made a copy of this? 181   EXT. BJURMAN'S OFFICE BUILDING - LATE AFTERNOON            181 
 Ground, please. A finger presses it.    The doors close and the elevator starts down. 
 How's your sex life? 
 I didn't care much for your last report. (which she has in hand) It felt perfunctory, like your heart wasn't in it. Let's see a little more enthusiasm for my recovery in next month's. 
 I under(stand) - 
 Don't speak. I don't want to hear your voice. Just nod. 
 Start looking for a shrink you can bribe to swear under oath he can find absolutely nothing wrong with me. He nods. She gets the elevator going again and steps closer to him. He tries bowing his head like a dog being scolded. She lifts his chin like he did to her before he raped her. 
 And stop visiting tattoo removal websites or I'll do it again - right here. 
 O/S It's me. 
 It's that bad? 192   INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT                                      192 
 Is it still bleeding? (touches the wound) It's still bleeding ... why is it still bleeding ... She pulls a length of dental floss from its case - 
 BLOMKVIST (ADR) Is that dental floss? 
 Yes. Splits it in two thinner lengths with her chewed finger nails - 
 What is that - (he can see it's a needle) Is that necessary? 105. 105. 
 Yes. 
 We can't just tape it? 
 No. She perches on the edge of the tub where he sits - still in his pants - half-submerged in tepid water - bottle of vodka in his hand. 
 Did you sterilize that? 
 No. 
 You didn't? 
 Drink some more. He takes a swig from the vodka bottle. She reaches to his face with the needle and floss - 
 Careful, it's my eye. 
 Don't move. 
 What am I doing here ... why did I ever come up here ... 
 It's too dark to see ... did it stop bleeding ... I think maybe it has ... it still fucking hurts ... 192B   INT. COTTAGE - A FEW MINUTES LATER - NIGHT                 192B 
 It wasn't an accident ... Somebody was shooting at me ... It's insane ... these people are insane ... 
 No one's shooting at you now. 
 I'm pretty sure this isn't a good idea. 
 Why. 
 Apart from the fact that I'm old, we work together. 
 You work with what's-her-name. That's worked out for you. 
 I have some standards of behavior, believe it or not. 
 You need to stop talking. 
 You want me to open a window? 
 I like working with you. 
 I like working with you, too. 196    OMIT - INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - DAY                       196 
 People hunt on the island, Mikael. Gunner's out there shooting something almost every day for his dinner. It could have been a stray shot. 
 Not from Gunner. If he wanted to shoot him, he'd have shot him. 108. 108. 
 We get poachers. They're not always such great shots. 
 Or he's right, Dirch.        What if he is? This has to stop. Frode regards Blomkvist. 
 Do you want to stop? 
 I have police reports, photos, Henrik's notes, my own notes, and Lisbeth's research. What I don't have are Vanger Industries records. That's what I want. 
 Why? 
 Will you authorize it? 
 I could but why on earth would I? 
 Because I'm asking. 
 The private corporate records. (Blomkvist nods) How far back? 
 All the way. 
 Henrik said I have access to everything I need. This is what I need. 
 That's not what he meant. 
 Let's ask him. 109. 109. 
 He's not well enough to ask. 
 I'd be happy to sign a nondisclosure statement, if that helps you. 
 Excuse us a moment. 
 I think Henrik would say yes. 
 That's why he has me. To protect him from himself. This is insane. 
 What do we have to hide? 
 Over the course of 120 years of doing business? Plenty. 
 If he needs this to do his job, he should have permission. This goes against every privileged, confidential bone in the lawyer's body. He can only stare at Blomkvist and Salander across the room, wondering why he hired either one of them. 
 What am I looking for? 
 Any connections between the company's holdings and the towns where the women were killed ... and everything about Frode. 
 V/O Your father was taking pictures that day no one has seen. 201    INT. CECILIA'S HOUSE - DAY                                201 
 I'd like to if I could. 
 So ask him. 
 I was wondering if you could do that. 
 I don't speak to him, as you know. 
 You couldn't make an exception in my case. 
 Are you afraid to be in the same room with him? I'm not saying you shouldn't be. 
 You won't help me? 
 Sorry. 202   INT. VANGER INDUSTRIES - DAY                            202 
 Are you finished? 
 No. I need to know where all the factories, offices and projects were from 1949 to 1966. 
 You already have everything. 
 I don't. Nothing on subsidiary corporations, partnerships, or suppliers. 
 Then you'll have to do without. 
 Mr. Frode said I have access to whatever I need, and I need this. 
 He said you have access to this floor. 
 Call him. The woman stares at her for a long moment, then picks up the phone. 
 Sven Olof Lindholm. 
 Me. 
 Handsome. 
 (taps another) Birger Furugard. Me. (and another) Per Engdahl. (and another) Me. 
 But your interest is in my more candid photographic work. 
 Blom ... kvist ... (lights the cigarette) With an `o' - or a `u.' 
 `o.' 
 An `o.'   Blom - kvist. 
 I'm not a recluse. I don't close my door to anyone. They just don't visit. 
 Perhaps if you redecorated. 
 Hide the past like they do. Under a thin, shiny veneer. Like an Ikea table. (Blomkvist shrugs) I'm the most honest of all of them. 
 The family. 
 Sweden. 
 Two point eight. 
 Pardon me? 
 The Zeiss Tessar on my Hasselblad. Excellent lens. 
 Landscape?   Some nice landscapes there. 
 No, it's - I can't tell who it is from this angle. 
 That's Gottfried's boy. 
 Martin? Harald nods, hands it back, smokes. It's not unusual Martin would have joined the search party - it would be unusual if he hadn't - it's his sister that's missing - but this blazer he's wearing troubles Blomkvist - 
 Handsome but useless young man, Martin. Like his father. 
 We're closing. 115. 115. 
 (without looking up) Nowhere near finished. 
 I'm not staying late. 
 I am. And I need access to all the rooms, including any that are locked. (nothing from the woman) Call Frode. 208   INT. HOSPITAL - DUSK                                     208 
 V/O She wants to look at everything. I don't like her and I don't trust her. There's something wrong with her. 
 Hang on a second - (to Martin) I'm going to let you decide.     It's Ms. Lindgren again. 
 (takes the phone) Yes, Ingrid, what's the problem? 
 V/O This girl wants a set of keys now. To my room as well. It's outrageous. 
 It's fine. Just tell her to make sure to leave the keys with security when she's done. 
 Stay all night if you want.     Leave the keys with the guard. 
 O/S Hello?   Mikael? 
 Your evening stroll? 
 Hi.   How are you? 
 I stopped at the hospital on my way home. Henrik asked me to ask you something. 
 What. 
 Come on in, I'll make you a drink. 
 What happened to you? 
 When. 
 Now. 
 I fell in the dark. 
 You don't have a flashlight?     I'll give you one. 
 I just wasn't being careful. 
 How's the investigation? 
 Nothing new to report. 
 Dirch says Ms. Salander is clever. Maybe she'll turn something up. 
 Maybe. 122. 122. 
 Thanks. 222   INT. ARCHIVES - NIGHT                                     222 
 Hello, Martin. 
 What did he say? 
 What? 
 You said Henrik asked you to ask me something. 
 I just did. 
 What? 
 How the investigation's going.      That was his question. 
 Oh. 
 You hunt? We should go hunting together sometime. 
 Sure. 
 Nothing at all? (Blomkvist doesn't know what he means) New. To report. 
 No. Martin regards Blomkvist in another silence.        Then - 
 I can see you're anxious. 
 No. 
 To get home.    After your walk. 
 I suppose I am. 
 To have dinner. With your girlfriend. 
 My assistant.    Yes. 
 We'll have better luck with a gun. 
 Sorry? 
 When we go hunting. 
 A gun.   Rather than a knife. 
 You just couldn't stay away, could you. 
 I want to show you something.     Bring your drink. Leave the knife. 
 You know what's harder than shooting someone? Just missing them. That was a very good shot up at the cabin. 
 It didn't work. I'm here. 
 Mikael, it did work.     You're here. They come through a pantry, at the end of which is a door. 
 Open it. Blomkvist does. Sees steps leading into darkness. As they descend Martin flicks a switch and bare fluorescent tubes flicker on to reveal: A furnace. Washer. Dryer. Old discarded furniture. And another door. A steel one. As they approach it, Martin presses a little remote and the lock on the steel door clicks. 
 Push it open. 
 Switch is on the left. 
 Why didn't you just go home. 
 I assume you mean the opportunity for that has passed. 
 How'd you do it? What did you find? 126. 126. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 We can talk or we can just get on with it. It's really up to you. 
 I found a picture no one had seen before. 
 Of. 
 You. In your Uppsala prep school blazer. 
 What does that say? 
 That you lied about where you were that day. Or rather when. 
 Did I? If I did, so what.    People lie all the time. 
 It also said that Lena Andersson was a schoolmate. 
 Lena ... (he has to think back to remember her) Lena was a long time ago. (pause) Where's this picture now? With all the other junk on your desk? 
 A print is. Digital copies are on a secure photo site. 127. 127. 
 That's a lie ... How much does the girl know? 
 Let's hope it's as much as you. That'll make it more fun. Where is she? 
 Stockholm.   She went there this morning. 
 And that's a lie. She's sitting in our offices looking at more old crap. Our archives manager called me - very perturbed with this girl. Lisbeth. I like that name. Lisbeth. When Lisbeth leaves I'll get a call from security, so I can be at your cottage to greet her when she arrives - He holds up the keys he took from Blomkvist's pocket when he was out cold. 
 I can't thank you enough for bringing her to me. 228B   INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT                                    228B 
 Mikael - ? 
 So what would you like to know? There are so many things, but also no point, so Blomkvist says nothing. 
 You're the journalist, ask me something. 
 What do I do with my guests? Is that the question? Well, before - I do what we're doing. Relax, have a drink, converse. I like that part a lot - having a chat when you both know one of you is going to die. After - I simply get rid of them. Out to sea - (points off) - unlike my father leaving them scattered all over the place like trophies. That's not smart if you ask me. That's just garish and loud. But he was a garish and loud man. Frankly, he got what he deserved. Nothing from Blomkvist, but he is wondering now what happened to Gottfried if the drowning wasn't accidental. 
 You can't be a sloppy technician like that.   You can't drink to excess like he did. This takes discipline. It's a science of a thousand details. The planning. The execution. The cleanup. I'm sure I don't have to tell you you're going to make quite a mess. 
 That's the interesting thing. Because most of the time I am just like everyone else. I just have a bigger secret. It's wonderful really - standing there waiting for a train - or on a street corner as people brush past me. You know what I mean; (MORE) 129. 129. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 MARTIN (CONT'D) you have secrets. You had one when you came up here. It made you feel - special. Didn't it? 
 No. I'm not a rapist. Of course I do that too - and at one time it was enough - but - (gathers his thoughts to explain it) A rapist, Mikael, gets off on domination. I need ... (discards a few other words before:) - destruction. 
 Can I ask you something? Why don't people trust their instincts? They sense something's wrong - someone's walking too close behind them - yet they don't cross the street. You knew something was wrong - you even knew what it was - but you came back into the house. Did I force you? Did I grab you and drag you in? I just offered you a drink. (pause) You'd never think the fear of offending could be stronger than the fear of pain - but you know what? It is. They always come willingly. 
 And then they're here. They know it's over like you do - and still somehow think they have a chance. "Maybe if I say the right thing - if I'm polite - or I cry and beg - maybe I'll survive." (regards Blomkvist) And then the moment comes when they realize ... no, all hope is gone. (MORE) 130. 130. 
 MARTIN (CONT'D) And when that happens - when I see the hope draining from their face like it is from yours right now - (whispers like it's just between them) - well, I feel myself getting hard just watching it. Silence ... 
 Say something. 
 You are a sick fuck. 
 ... Is this an interview or an editorial? 
 You're right, this behavior is unacceptable. I know that. But we're not completely different. We both have desires. Satisfying mine just requires more towels. Martin regards Blomkvist in a silence.    Then - 
 Anything else you want to know? (pause) You sure? (pause) All right. Whatever you say. 
 It might amuse you to know that while you were over here having dinner with me and Liv - who, by the way, finds me very conventional - Irina was down here in the cage. Who's Irina, you ask? A girl I met in Belarus. Just another girl. Another immigrant whore. Who misses them? 
 Your sister wasn't just another girl. Martin comes back quickly and yanks a strap that cinches the noose tighter around Blomkvist's neck as it lifts him onto his tiptoes. 
 What happened to her. 
 You're choking me - 
 You found her? 
 You killed her. 
 You useless fuckin detective. 132. 132. 
 Too tight to talk? It is.   Blomkvist can utter no sound but a gag. 
 Good.   I'm tired of talking to you. 
 Would you like me to do something about that? 
 See?    I'm not a monster. He frames a wide shot of his naked prey. Turns on some music. Takes a moment to collect himself from all this strenuous work. Brushes back his hair like he wants to look presentable in the shot. Then smiles pleasantly - 
 You know, I've never had a man in here. I've never touched a man as a matter of fact. Except my father, of course. But that was my duty. Harriet's, too. 
 It's time. I don't want to be late for my date with our girlfriend. 133. 133. Dragon Tattoo Final 9/1/11 SZ 
 Goodbye, Mikael. He pulls the strap, lifting Blomkvist's toes off the floor, closing off his air again ... and is about to gut him like a wild boar ... when he hears a sound like some kind of animal behind him ... 
 May I kill him? 
 He has more guns in the den - 
 I know. 
 Where is he? 
 Dead. 234   EXT. HEDESTAD - DAWN                                       234 
 O/S It's open. 
 Where's Mikael? 
 Asleep.   Coffee? There's no milk. 
 I have some very upsetting news. Martin was killed in a car accident last night. 
 Sad. 
 What? 136. 136. 
 I said it's sad. 
 (pause) What do you know about this? 
 I have to talk to (Mikael) - 
 Let him sleep. 
 What are we going to do? 
 We're going home, Mikael and me. I don't know what you're going to do. 
 I'm going to the police. 
 Show them the videos while you're at it. 
 The - Salander points to a stack of video tapes. 137. 137. 
 Would you like to see them? 
 No. 236A   INT. COTTAGE BEDROOM - LATER - MORNING                      236A 
 How is it someone who's 23 is a ward of the state? 
 I'm mentally incompetent and can't manage daily life. 
 Since when have they said that. 
 Since I was twelve. 
 Something happened when you were twelve? 
 It's all right, you don't have to tell me anything - 
 I tried to kill my father. I burned him alive. Got about 80 percent of him. 
 (pause) Oh. 
 We need milk. 
 Harriet? 
 I think so. 
 Martin didn't deny killing anyone. But when I mentioned Harriet, he was confused. He was angry - at me - for not being able to tell him what happened to her. (pause) He didn't kill her. And his father was dead the year before. (pause) What if she did somehow get away? Could she have done that? Could she have done it alone? He goes up to his wall of suspects. 
 Is she's alive, there's only one person in this family who would know where she is. 
 Poor Martin. 
 I have to go away for a couple days. When I come back, I hope to have an answer for you. Such a possibility stuns the old man. He regards Blomkvist a moment. Then Salander ... 
 Would the young lady mind giving us a moment of privacy. 
 She's my partner, Henrik.     She should stay. A tiny, tiny, tiny smile finds its way to her face at the mention of the word `partner.' 
 What have you found? 
 I'm not sure. 
 Don't treat me like a child.      Tell me. 
 I can't.    I don't know.    I need a week. 
 I've waited forty years.     I can wait another week. 
 I always liked this song. (nothing from her or Plague) You don't? 140. 140. 
 I don't like classical music. A strange-looking young man comes in, regards the strange- looking trio at the table, comes over. To the fat man - 
 Plague? 
 Trinity. 
 Wasp. 
 ... Mikael. 
 The money. 
 Fuck me. He watches Anita Vanger get out of the car - the garage door come down - light go on inside the house - then dark figures hurrying along the side of the house: Trinity, Salander, and finally Plague. They climb into the van with their tools, firewires, a laptop. None speaks as they tether cables to computers in the van. Blomkvist just watches. Finally, to him - 
 It's your turn. 141. 141. 
 It's me.   Sorry to bother you. 
 What do you want? 
 No one's called you? 
 About. 
 Your cousin. 
 Martin. 
 What about him? 
 He died last Thursday. A car accident. I'm sorry. (nothing from her) There's going to be a memorial in Hedestad. I know you haven't been back there in a long time, but - 
 I'm not interested in any memorial. 
 I understand. 
 What do you understand? 
 That you don't really care for any of your relatives. Still, I thought you should know. 
 Now I know. 
 How'd it go? 
 Okay.   I think. 
 She's on. 
 She's playing solitaire? (Salander nods) And she still hasn't called anyone. 
 No. 
 Do we have her cell, too? Salander points to one of the windows on the screen. His hand comes off her shoulder. 143. 143. 
 I was so she'd lead us to her. 
 Put your hand back on my shoulder. He does.   They watch the solitaire game together ... 
 There's only one reason she wouldn't call Harriet. She can't because Harriet is indeed dead. 247   INT. HOTEL ROOM - LONDON - LATER - NIGHT                       247 
 I was just thinking. What if - 
 Ten more seconds. That's fair.   She finishes.    They lie there.     Then - 
 Okay, what. 
 I was just thinking, there could be one other possibility. 
 May I? 
 What is it now. He comes in and sits. 
 I want to show you something. 
 Before he died, your brother hung me from a hook ... Harriet. 250   EXT. PARK - LONDON - DAY                                   250 They sit together on a park bench. 
 Anita married in Stockholm in 1967. It's recorded in the Swedish General Register. But the family never knew, did they. (she confirms that with a shake of her head) I'm guessing she then came here on a passport in her married name, and you followed on her maiden name passport. 
 Actually, it was the other way around. She thought it safer for me to travel with Spencer myself. 
 What did he think about that? 
 Nothing. Only that he loved her. She said, If you love me, you'll do this and not ask why. He never did. 
 They both died twenty years ago. 
 A car accident. You found that, too. 
 Is this you? He hands her the less graphic of the two Polaroids Salander found in Martin's basement - the young girl, face turned half-away from the camera ... 
 I was 14 the first time he raped me. 
 Martin. 145. 145. 
 No, my father. He took this picture. Martin didn't start until he died. 
 Why didn't you tell someone? 
 I did.    My mother. 
 Henrik would have done something. 
 Would he? I don't know. I almost told him. But I was afraid because of what I did. (pause) You still don't understand? 
 A year after the first time - after many times during that year - my father got drunker than usual one night and started bragging about women he'd killed. He quoted from the Bible as he tore off my clothes. He wrapped a belt around my neck. He wanted to kill me. 251   EXT. GOTTFRIED'S CABIN - NIGHT - 1965                     251 
 V/O I made it out of the house and down to the dock. He came staggering after me - Gottfried emerges from the cabin and stumbles down the hill in pursuit of his almost-naked daughter. 
 V/O I could never fight him off in a small room, but I was strong enough out in the open to deal with an old drunk. 146. 146. 
 V/O When it was finally over I looked up, and Martin was standing there - 
 V/O With a little smile. 252   EXT. PARK - LONDON - DAY                                252 
 He dragged me back to the cabin ... All I'd accomplished was substitute one rapist for another. 
 V/O A couple months later, Henrik sent him off to school in Uppsala. And I thought maybe - maybe - the nightmare was over. Until that day. The float with the harem girls comes past, and we watch the smile on young Harriet's face change to fear as she notices something off to the left. 
 V/O There he was - across the street - looking at me with that same little smile on his face. 
 V/O It wasn't over. 147. 147. 
 How'd you get away? Anita? 255   INT. VANGER MANOR - DAY - 1966                             255 
 Don't take anything. Harriet puts the clothes back.     Picks up her purse. 
 Leave that, too. 
 Stay absolutely still. 
 V/O She saved me. 
 How did you get away? 
 Someone saved me, too. 148. 148. 
 How are you feeling? 
 I'm fine.   Thank you, Anna. Anna leaves. Closes the doors.      Before Blomkvist can say anything else - 
 I made you a promise. Whether you found out anything or not. 
 Now.   What do you have to tell me. 
 Hi, Henrik. 
 ... I don't even remember Wennerstrom working here, much less being fired ... 
 Why would you. It was a long time ago. Which is more to the point than the money he embezzled. 
 I don't think I'm seeing the point. 
 Yes, you are. 
 (another look at the paperwork) It happened in the 1970's ... 
 FRODE (ADR) (regarding the documents) I swear I didn't know this was what Henrik had on him. If I had, I never would have let him bring you up here. But he wasn't trying to deceive you. 
 Come on, he knows you can't try somebody for this 35 years later. I like Henrik, but he knows that. Frode disagrees - 
 A man's reputation used to mean something - he still believes that. I'm sure he thought you could destroy Wennerstrom with this in the court of public opinion. 
 The "court of public opinion," Dirch, makes celebrities out of girls who shop. Henrik promised me Wennerstrom's carcass on a plate. This isn't even the plate. I can't do anything with this. 150. 150. 
 Of course you're right ... (pause) I'm sorry. 262   EXT. VANGER MANOR - LATER - DAY                          262 
 Fuck these people ... 
 Yeah ... 
 Harriet most of all. 
 Excuse me? 
 If she'd done anything but run, Martin wouldn't have been able to kill all those women. 
 She had no idea he was doing it. 
 She should have killed her father and him. 
 That's what you would've done.     Not everyone's you. 
 That was meant to be a compliment. Put your arm back on my shoulder. 
 What happened with Wennerstrom. How did he get you? 151. 151. 
 I was stupid. I got something from an anonymous source, who I'm sure now worked for him. It was fake. Which he easily proved in court. Not a good day, that.   Then - 
 You were emphatic that the way I looked into your life was illegal and immoral. Would you feel the same about Wennerstrom? 
 I started investigating him on my own. Then you showed up and hired me. I haven't had a chance to look at it all - you and Harriet-fucking- Vanger have kept me busy ... but I may have something. 
 (pause) On Wennerstrom. 
 Wennerstrom's Swedish assets are genuine, but they're the only things that are. The rest is funneled through companies in Gibraltar, Colombia, and Macao. These companies produce no products and provide no services. They're shells. They launder money from arms and drug sales, and crime syndicates in Russia. And that money - which accounts for all but 5-percent of his holdings - ends up in accounts in the Cayman Islands. It's a completely illegal, criminal empire. 
 How do you know this? 152. 152. 
 This time you don't want to know. 
 This time I do want to know. 
 I have access to his computer, and his accountants' and lawyers'. 
 And how do you have that? 
 I could have gotten it from a source inside the company. 
 But you didn't. 
 But that's what you'll say. 
 But what will you say to me? 
 That depends on if you really want to know. 
 I do.   Who gave you access? What looks like 16-year-old tattooed runaway lets herself in with her own key. Crosses past Erika with a paper bag, takes out two bagel sandwiches, the same kind Blomkvist brought when he barged into her apartment. As she puts some water on for coffee, Erika looks at Blomkvist. He nods. Yeah. Her. 
 Journalist Mikael Blomkvist - who this time last year was convicted of libel in a Stockholm courtroom - doesn't seem to have learned from that experience. Or maybe he has - 
 In the current issue of Millennium magazine, he now charges the same company that successfully sued him - The Wennerstrom Group - of criminal activities on a global scale - backing it up with internal financial reports, bank records and emails - annotations almost as long as the article itself. 
 He'll call it a personal vendetta but it won't work. FI can't ignore banking and securities fraud like this. The police can't ignore the organized crime stuff. They'll both have to investigate. 
 Then. 
 We'll be back in court, but this time it'll cost him. That's probably it, though. These guys never to prison. 
 What's wrong. 
 It's embarrassing. 
 What. 
 I need to borrow some money. Blomkvist grins and reaches for his wallet. 154. 154. 
 50,000. 
 I have a chance to make an investment. It's a smart, safe investment. 
 I don't know that I have that much. 
 You do. I'm sorry that I know that. You have 65 thousand in your two accounts. He's no longer shocked or dismayed by her knowing more about his personal affairs than he does. 
 You'll get the money back.   I promise. 267   INT.'S APARTMENT - DAY                          267 
 These allegations - like the last ones from this so-called journalist - are as ridiculous as they are untrue - 
 I'll be seeing Mr. Blomkvist in court again. I'm looking forward to it. 
 What about his documentation? 
 Fabricated.   All of it. 270   EXT/INT. WIG SHOP - STOCKHOLM - DAY                       270 
 The Securities Fraud Office isn't quite as certain as Mr. Wennerstrom of that. 
 If even a fraction of what Mr. Blomkvist is alleging proves to be true, not only will there be a securities investigation, but an organized crime inquiry as well. 272   EXT/INT. SALANDER'S APARTMENT - DAY                       272 
 Mr. Blomkvist names no sources. 
 And we can't force him to.     But we can look for them. 
 Beginning where? 
 Beginning with those closest to Mr. Wennerstrom. Only someone in the inner circle of a corporation like this could have access to this kind of information. 
 Mr. Wennerstrom isn't available for comment today, but as his legal counsel, I'd be happy to answer your questions. 
 Where is he? 
 At home, I imagine. 
 He isn't.   Has he left the country? 
 I don't think so. 274   EXT. ZURICH - DAY                                          274 
 With his failure to appear before a Security Exchange Commission panel, a warrant has been issued for The Wennerstrom Group CEO. 157. 157. 
 I can confirm that he left Sweden on a private jet that landed in Paris last week, but whether he's still there, we don't know. He could be anywhere by now. She sips at her room service coffee. 279   EXT.   ZURICH - DAY                                       279 
 I have a number of accounts at Bank of Kroenfeld, Cayman Islands. I want to transfer those funds and convert them to bonds. As she writes an account number on a slip of paper from memory, Herr Wagner notices - as she intends - the pen she's using - from the venerable Zimmerstal Hotel. 
 Naturally, you have the clearing codes. 
 Naturally. 
 How many accounts will you be transferring? 
 Thirty. 
 This will take some time. 
 For which you'll receive a 4-percent commission. 158. 158. 
 I will. 
 Then it won't be a waste of it. She offers him the Zimmerstal pen. 
 Thank you, I have one. 
 A Swedish tourist vacationing here in Barbados says he knows where fugitive financier Hans-Erik Wennerstrom is: Here in this Caribbean island's capital, Bridgetown. Police released this photograph, taken yesterday by the tourist, Jens Assur - A snapshot of Wennerstrom, or someone who looks like him - tropical shirt, hat and sunglasses - climbing into a car. 
 - and say they believe it is the disgraced billionaire. 
 How many of these would you like to convert for deposit? 
 All fifty.   Into five accounts. 
 That looks correct. 159. 159. 
 O/S The man who is now being called Sweden's Pablo Escobar, may not have a country to call home, but does have enough money to buy one. 291    EXT. ZURICH - DAY                                        291 
 According to the International Banking Commission, Wennerstrom, just days after the Millennium article that brought him down appeared on news stands, began emptying accounts at Bank of Kroenfeld in the Cayman Islands. 
 The money I borrowed. 
 Already. 
 Thank you. 
 Thank you. 
 Good investment? 
 It was okay. 
 What are you doing later? 
 Seeing my daughter. 
 Okay. 
 You look nice. 
 Thanks. 
 Christmas again ... see you soon. A294   EXT. PALMGREN'S APARTMENT - DAY - ESTABLISHING          A294 294    INT. PALMGREN'S APARTMENT - DAY                          294 
 Can you hear me? (no indication that he can) I miss our meetings. (pause) I'm sure you don't. Why would you? I was always such a headache for you. Never showing up with good news. Only problems. (pause) I have some good news now. I've made a friend. I mean one that you'd approve of. (pause) I'm happy. 
 Behind the walls of this dingy rooming house behind me lies a body in a pool of blood - A man who has been living here the last three weeks under the name Victor Fleming - 
 O/S A man who police in Marbella, Spain, have confirmed is fugitive Hans-Erik Wennerstrom - 163. 163. 
 What would you like? 
 Sir? 
 ... Coffee and a sandwich ... that one. 
 It's perfect. 
 Your father? 
 A friend. 
 
