 DREW'S POV The puppy squeezes through the hedge, wiggling its bum to extricate itself. A SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL picks it up, hugs it close: SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL Where are you going, Jelly Bean? CUT TO: 
 NOTATWIN:   CONFESS THOREAU 786:   DROPPED TRIPLE DEPTH CHARGE AFTER DINNER. NOTATWIN:   THAT MUCH CAFFEINE IS ILLEGAL IN UTAH. THOREAU 786: THEN BOUGHT 'NO MONEY DOWN' REAL ESTATE 
 3:00 A.M. This makes her smile. NOTATWIN:   A CAREER MAN.   I LIKE THAT. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) Morning. Startled, Drew shoots herself in the eye with the water pick. Parker's ENTERED from her side. Drew shuts off the water pick, dries her face. 
 Why the young executive look? 
 I have my interview at NYU today. Parker, sleepy, stretches, unaware she's exposing her new belly ring. 
 No way Mom knows about that. Self-consciously, Parker drops her arms, pulls her shirt down. 
 And she never will. At least until after I'm married. 
 Didn't it hurt? 
 Like hell. Drew shivers. 
 Piercings are so... unhygienic. A little BEEP BEEP from her preset WATCH ALARM goes off. (CONTINUED) 
 Breakfast. Drew turns on her heel and EXITS. When Parker sets her Blackberry down we get our first glimpse of... ... HER SIDE OF THE    BATHROOM which resembles a post- apocalyptic toiletry    landscape. There's a very clear line of demarcation    on the counter like the demilitarized zone separating the    Koreas. Parker reaches among the rubble for her toothbrush but notices another message on her Blackberry: THOREAU 786:     KNOW WHAT TODAY IS? NOTATWIN:     ANOTHER DAY IN HELL? THOREAU 786:     TWO WEEKS SINCE OUR FIRST CHAT. NOTATWIN:     OUR ANNIVERSARY.    HOW SWEET. THOREAU 786: SINCE IT'S A SPECIAL OCCASION, MY REAL NAME'S WARREN COLLIER. IF YOU'RE EVER IN THE CITY, I'D LOVE TO MEET. GOTTA GO. Accompanying the text, a PICTURE Warren has sent finishes downloading -- eighteenish, the shaggy chic, Calvin Klein model-type. 
 (suddenly wide-awake) Hellooo, Warren. Distracted, Parker drops her toothbrush, which bounces off the counter and PLOPS into the toilet. ON THE TOILET BOWL -- there it is, slowly sinking. Parker is stone-faced. She looks to her sister's side of the counter where a fresh brush sits in the flowered holder. She's considering... she's reaching... then... nah. Instead, she squeezes the tube straight into her mouth, brushes with a finger and spits. 
 Morning, Dad. 
 Morning, baby. 
 How's the book coming? 
 (sigh) Well, sweety, my writing process is a lot like a giant hydroelectric dam. For a long time I just let the great ideas build up and build up until the sheer weight of them spills over and the words just come pouring out. 
 Still stuck, huh? 
 Not a word. Parker ENTERS with her Blackberry in hand, smooches her pop, then takes a sat. Parker's clearly a chip off her Dad's block. Both pour milk first into their bowl, then Charley drops in Super Sugar Crisp while Parker pours in Count Chocula. Both hit 'em with a couple of spoons of extra sugar. Mom takes a seat, too, primly eating a piece of dry wheat toast that she slices in half first. Like Mom, like Drew. Drew spots the BLACKBERRY JPEG of Warren before Parker can turn it over. 
 Another one for the trophy room, huh? (CONTINUED) 
 Boys can be fun. You should try one some time. 
 (to Drew) You ready for your interview? 
 (funny you should ask) I've prepared a color-coded itinerary based on dividing the day into fifteen minute increments alternating blue/red, double- checked the train schedule, confirmed with the Weather Channel and rehearsed a couple of alternate scenarios last night, you know, just to account for all the possible glitches. 
 We'll take that as a yes. 
 I'm proud of you for sticking to your plan all these years, sweety. 
 I still don't understand why you want to finish college in two years? What's the big hurry? 
 I want to hit the ground running. All those football games and the partying and the whole dating scene. It just seems like a lot of wasted time that could be spent more productively. 
 The Accelerated program would look great on your med school application. 
 Football games I get. But partying? A waste of time? Parker looks to her dad.     He shrugs. (CONTINUED) 
 To each her own. 
 Well, Drew.   I have a surprise. Everybody stops what they're doing for a BEAT. 
 I took the day off. (excitedly) I'm going into the City with you. 
 (panicked) What -- ?! Drew CHOKES on her granola and a little milk trickles out her nose. 
 Isn't that great! We can do some shopping, have lunch, real girl stuff. Won't that be fun? 
 If you want to have fun, I'm the one who should go, not Mother Teresa over there. Drew is still choking -- pretty badly. 
 Let me know if you want me to do the Heimlich. It'd be cool to have you owe me your life. WHOOSH!   The granola goes down and she sucks air. 
 You okay? 
 (still clearing) No... I mean, it's... impossible. I've got every minute accounted for right up to the interview. Blue and red! It won't work. 
 I just thought... you know... I've been working and we haven't had a chance to spend much time together... (CONTINUED) 
 ... and both my babies are going away to college next Fall. She takes her plate and goes to the sink and Parker follows her, putting an arm around her shoulder. 
 Don't be sad, Mom. Just think, when Drew leaves for school, you won't be losing a daughter, you'll be losing an anal-retentive social misfit who will be voted most likely to die a virgin. Drew throws an arm around Quinn's other shoulder. 
 I'm sorry, Mom. It's really sweet of you. But don't worry. Parker will be living here with you forever since no college on earth will ever take her. 
 Stop it, you two. Mom blows her nose. 
 It's not fair you guys get to go into the City and I don't. 
 Don't you have a chem test, young lady? 
 Chemistry? Please. Name one time you ever used chemistry in your life. 
 (beat) Good point. 
 (adamant) I use chemistry every day. (CONTINUED) 
 You're a    doctor, Mom. I'm not going to    be a doctor. I can't even say    the word 'orifice,' let alone put    a finger up one. The BEEP BEEP of Drew's alarm WATCH signals time to go. Drew is trying to cover up, but she's reeling from the news that her mother's going to accompany her. 
 (worried) Time to go. 
 BUILDING, SUITE 101. 
 (O.S.) Come on, honey! Let's tear up Manhattan! With a shiver, Drew closes the book, looks up into the mirror, takes a squirt off her inhaler to calm herself and tries some self-reassurance. 
 You're smart. You're resourceful. You'll find a way to make it work. She tries to sell herself on this by smiling, but something in the smile suggests SHE'S SCREWED. Collecting her Dayplanner, purse, interview file and cell phone, she drops them into her matching Coach shoulder bag. 
 (to phone) Doctor MacLeod... (beat; winking at Drew) I'm sorry, but my itinerary is booked solid today. Call Dr. Wessels. He's covering for me. (beat) He did? (beat) Are you sure it's the baby's head? (beat) All right. I'm coming. Frustrated, Mom hangs up and with a look of profound disappointment, turns to Drew. 
 I'm sorry, hon. It's a Blue Light special in Maternity. Every bed's full and some poor woman is about to give birth in the gift shop. I have to go in. Drew musters her best sad, sad face for her mom. 
 Ah, darn it, Mom. That's a shame. It's like fate is conspiring against us. 
 I know. 
 You absolutely, positively have to promise me we'll do it another time. 
 I promise. I better hurry. Have Parker drop you at the train station on her way to school, will you? Quinn gives her daughter a smile and a kiss. (CONTINUED) 
 Kill 'em in that interview. 
 (beat) Mom, you know, I might not get in. 
 Are you kidding me? You're Drew MacLeod. Nobody's smarter, nobody works harder and nobody, and I mean nobody, is ever more prepared. Drew smiles, hugs her mom and jumps out, waving as her mom backs down the drive and disappears down the street. With the weight of the world suddenly lifted from her shoulders, Drew looks to the sky and mouths, "thank you." This is when Parker comes hauling down the driveway in her Honda Accord. Drew signals her to stop, so of course her sister IGNORES HER and jets into the street. 
 Hey!   Stop! Drew takes off running after the car! 
 
!! 
 Good luck with your interview. Drew pauses, holding the door open. 
 You know, Parker. Chemistry is important. When you think about it, everything's made of chemicals. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, I'm interested in chemistry. Just not the kind with all the numbers and stinky test tubes. Drew shuts the door and hustles off into the train station. Parker SIGHS, looks to the BLACKBERRY on the seat next to her. 
 Ah, chemistry. 
 (low; rehearsing) Professor Spaulding. Good afternoon. I'm Drew MacLeod. An EXECUTIVE takes the aisle seat next to her, and after a sideways glance at Drew's portable office, opens his Wall Street Journal as the train begins to pull away. EVERY COMMUTER is quietly reading the paper or staring off into their own world, wondering why their life has lead them to this sad moment when... ... they're all distracted by an AWFUL, AWFUL VOICE singing Sheryl Crow's "Soak Up the Sun." It's Parker, wearing her headphones and looking for a seat in the full train car. Drew stares at her, dumbfounded. 
 What do you think you're doing? 
 (too loud; with headphones on) Looking for a seat. (CONTINUED) 
 This can't be happening. Wait, I know. This is one of those Ground Hog Day dreams, isn't it? Drew pinches herself too hard. 
 Ow! (to Parker) I'm awake now. You're supposed to disappear. 
 (still too loud) You know, I just got this itch. 
 Then scratch it and get back to school. 
 I couldn't concentrate anyway. I'm too... distracted today. 
 You're permanently distracted. It's called Attention Deficit Disorder. (spotting her Blackberry) Is this about that chat room guy? It is, isn't it? A look from the Exec reminds Parker of her headphones and she pulls them off. 
 No! It's about spontaneity, which you obviously wouldn't know anything about. 
 I swear to God, Parker, you go through boyfriends like Junior Mints. It's pathetic. 
 Pathetic? You want to talk about pathetic?! At least I don't count getting accidentally felt up in dodge ball as my first date! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 PARKER (CONT'D) You're going to be eighteen and you've never even HAD a boyfriend! The EXECUTIVE furrows his brow at Drew -- never? 
 Is this any of your business? He goes back to his paper. 
 This is ridiculous. I don't    have time for this today. Fine.      Don't graduate from high school.     Make a mess of your life over some complete stranger. I don't     care. But leave me out. I have something important I need    to accomplish today, so please    go away. 
 (to Parker) Would you like this seat so you two can fight? 
 DREW/PARKER No thank you. Drew's ALARM WATCH BEEPS. 
 I have to mentally preview my day now. I can't talk anymore. Parker turns to go, then remembers something. 
 Uh, Drew? Do you have any money? I don't have enough for a ticket. Drew just rolls her eyes and turns her back on her sister. The Executive peers over his spectacles at Parker with the old paternal reprimand look. 
 Please.   Like you never ditched school. CUT TO: 
 'You don't know how you met me...' But when she spots the CONDUCTOR ENTERING the front of the car, she abruptly stops, slips down in he seat and slides past the COMMUTER LADY next to her into the aisle. 
 Excuse me. Parker heads the opposite direction from the ticket- taking Conductor and out the back of the train car. 
 Ticket, please. 
 Why don't I save the b.s. story and just ask you to cut me a break this one time because I know you've got a big heart and you remember what it was like when you were young and... and... (off the Conductor's look) ... randy? 
 (calling after) I guess you were never young and randy! This is when she sees Drew sitting in the train window, smiling and giving her a little victory wave. 
 Very funny. 
 Excuse me? 
 Let's go. He takes her by the arm. 
 What are you doing? Drew scrambles to grab her bag, jacket, the little inflatable lap desk falling to the floor. 
 I tried to be nice about it, but if you want the police involved, this is the way to do it. 
 Police?     I didn't do anything. 
 No ticket, no train ride. 
 (realizing) No! That's not me! That was my twin sister you threw off! 
 Young lady, in thirty years I have heard every possible line but that's the lamest ever. 
 (pointing) She's right there! 
 You okay? 
 I'm... ouch. 
 She's fine, considering she should be in jail. As the Conductor escorts her down the stairs, she and Dream Guy share a last look before she's... ... left on the platform just as the train's pulling out. Still no sign of Parker and Drew doesn't have all her wits about her. 
 This   can't be happening! I have a...   a... little paper thingy. What   are they called? Ticket! I have   a ticket! It's right... She drops her bag, contents spilling willy-nilly. On her hands and knees, she frantically searches for her ticket in the mess. The Conductor, however, is already on the train stop as it pulls away. He just waves, victorious. Parker    steps back out onto the platform and the Conductor spots    her. He looks from one sister to the other -- oops,    mistake. But it's too late. Sheepishly, he climbs inside    and the train is gone. 
 (to the gods) AARRGGH! PARRR... KERRR! Parker steps up from behind her. 
 You get kicked off, too? Why didn't you just buy a ticket? Parker stoops to help collect a couple of things but Drew, mad at hell, swats her hand away. (CONTINUED) 
 Don't. 
 What happened to your head? 
 Oh, just a minor concussion I sustained while the Conductor was throwing me off the train because he thought I was you sneaking back on the train! 
 Sorry. 
 I'll bet. Drew throws her bag over her shoulder and heads for the ticket counter. The WELT on her forehead is gonna be a doozey. 
 (calling after) I am!    Where are you going? 
 To see when the next train leaves. 
 I already -- But Drew's inside the stationhouse. 
 -- did. They said something about a delay. Parker follows into the stationhouse. 
 Parker steps outside where it's just as crowded. She scopes the situation, which isn't good -- stranded COMMUTERS jostle for the few remaining TAXIS. TWO EXECUTIVES get into a shoving match. To the left, a couple of BLACK LINCOLN TOWN CARS -- standard car service rigs -- sit IDLING, each with a DRIVER next to it, holding up his sign with his client's name scratched on it. An EXECUTIVE (#2) passes her, finger in the air, signaling the FIRST DRIVER who holds a sign that read: "Wilcox." 
 #2 That's me. With no further ado, the driver opens the back door for him, the Exec climbs in, the driver hustles around to his side and in an instant, the car leaves the chaos behind. Parker raises an eyebrow.    Hm. The second driver (BENNIE) with a head like a cinder block and no neck, is talking on his cell phone and holding up a sign, "SCARPELLI." Parker shoots a finger into the air. This barely gets his attention but he nods, nonchalantly. Parker signals again -- one minute -- then turns back inside. 
 That can't be.  I have to be there before two! 
 Well, maybe if you flap your arms real fast you can fly there, because you won't get there on a train. 
 (about to explode) What did you just say? (CONTINUED) 
 Come on.   Hurry. I got us a ride. 
 Let go of my arm. But Parker drags her away. Drew shoots a look back at the Clerk, who sticks out his tongue at her. 
 What's this? 
 A car service. 
 Car service? You couldn't have called for a... But Bennie opens the door for Parker like he's done it a thousand times. 
 Morning, miss. 
 Good morning. Thank you.   My sister's coming, too. Drew KNOWS SOME SKETCHY SHIT IS GOING DOWN buy she's only got this instant to consider. She glances at the STRANDED MOB descending on a lone approaching CAB, engulfing it. 
 You want to make that interview, or not? Drew lets herself be pulled inside. Bennie shuts the door and waddles around to his side. 
 So you're headed to the Teamster's Hall on Second Street? 
 (chewing a lip) You know, Mister... She checks his Chauffeur's License up front:        Benjamin Loyola. 
 ... Loyola. 
 Bennie. 
 Mr. Bennie? We have a slight change of itinerary. We need to go into Manhattan. 57th and 5th will be fine. Bennie doesn't seem perturbed a bit. 
 It's pre-paid.     No skin off my nose. 
 (whispering throughout) Pre-paid? What's 57th and 5th? 
 (whispering throughout) Barneys. 
 Not Barneys. 
 We've got five hours.     Relax. He FIRES UP the LINCOLN and off they go. Drew now has a pretty clear inclination as to what's going on. She leans into her sister and WHISPERS. 
 This was supposed to be someone else's car, wasn't it? (CONTINUED) 
 So? Just then, Bennie tosses the sign, which he'd stashed on the dash, onto the seat next to him, face up so Drew can read: 
 'Scarpelli'?   We're supposed to be Italian? 
 Northern Italian. 
 This is so... wrong. 
 What? You need to get to that interview. We now have a ride. We will pay for the ride. End of big deal. This is when Bennie's CELL PHONE RINGS and he answers it. 
 Yeah? (beat) No.  The city. (beat) What'a you talkin' about? Bennie glances into the REARVIEW MIRROR, smiling at the girls... 
 I already got 'em. ... but his smile TURNS DOWN AT THE CORNERS as he listens. The girls exchange doubtful looks. It gets worse. 
 They're right here in the car. (to girls) 'Scuse me. Bennie RAISES THE PRIVACY GLASS but doesn't realize he's left the intercom button on so they can still hear his half of the conversation. The girls are PETRIFIED. (CONTINUED) 
 (low to Drew) Not good. 
 (swallowing) What's happening? 
 (to phone) Don't you think that's a little severe? I mean, they didn't see nothin' yet. They can't hear nothin'. YES THEY CAN and they're now scared as hell. 
 You're the boss. (beat) Take it easy. I'll fix it. (beat) No, I don't have a shovel. Not today. It'll be a big mess. Besides, I just had this suit cleaned. The girls want OUT OF THIS CAR! 
 I'll take 'em to the wharf, what difference does it make? Drew yanks out her inhaler and sucks on it. 
 (whispered terror) Parker, I think maybe we should get out. Parker sees the LIGHT AHEAD TURN RED. 
 I agree.   How about... NOW! Just as Bennie brakes for the light, Parker throws her door open and pulls Drew into the street! An ONCOMING BUICK LOCKS UP its BRAKES as they dash for the sidewalk. 
 (O.S.) Hey?!   Where you goin'?! 
 He's stuck at the light! VRROOOM!   Here comes the Lincoln storming around the corner. 
 He has no respect for traffic laws! They run into the first ALLEY and hunker down by a GARBAGE CAN. The Lincoln flies past. They dash back out, the same way they came. SCREECH!   Bennie LOCKS UP the WHEELS! They round the same corner going the opposite way and Parker pulls them into the first door... 
." Parker peers over the top and out the window. PARKER'S POV -- slowly, the Lincoln cruises the street, Bennie scanning the neighborhood for them. 
 Is he gone? I can't believe this. What did you get us into? 
 We lost him.    Wow. That was a rush. 
 A rush?   Are you out of your mind? 
 (O.S.) Hey.   Give me a quarter, will ya? Spooked, they both turn to find a scraggly HOMELESS GUY with a Slushee in his hand. They stand. Parker reaches in her pocket. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Homeless Guy) I don't have any change, but here. Parker starts to find the Homeless Guy a dollar but Drew reaches over to stop her... 
 Parker, you're only feeding the poor man's disease. Buy him a healthy snack. ... just as the Homeless Guy reaches for the dollar and the SLUSHEE IS KNOCKED FROM HIS HAND. We watch in SLOW MOTION AS THE SLUSHEE TAKES FLIGHT, THE CAP FALLING OFF AND THE STICKY, CHERRY RED MESS FANNING OUT UNTIL... ... BACK TO FAST MOTION -- SPLAT!     IT CATCHES FULL- FACED, DRENCHING HER. The Homeless Guy snags the dollar. 
 I gotta go. And he EXITS.     Parker SNIFFS. 
 Ew. That stinks. That's not just Slushee. The MINI-MART CLERK approaches them, shaking his head. MINI-MART CLERK It's Mad Dog. Look at that mess. It's gonna smell up the store all day. Drew appears STUNNED, unable to form words so Parker speaks for her. 
 May we use your bathroom please? The cherry syrup and cheap wine concoction drips down Drew's blank face. MINI-MART CLERK Gas station at the end of the block. Have a nice day. 
 You know, it's not my place to say, but you young girls got your whole lives ahead of you. You shouldn't be drinkin' at this hour of the day. 
 That's what I keep telling her. 
 'Round the side. 
 BEAT, THEN: 
 
!!!! CUT TO: 
 Everything's going to be fine. (to baby) Peek-a-boo! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 PARKER (CONT'D) (to Drew) We're practically there. We'll get you cleaned up, you'll get into the program and... (to baby) Peek-a-boo! (to Drew) ... we'll both look back on this and laugh our butts off. BLECCH! The BABY PUKES all over Drew.       She looks sideways at her sister. 
 I will never, ever, forgive you. 
 See?   New York. We made it. 
 I could be arrested for vagrancy looking like this. 
 Listen.   I've got an idea. 
 No. No ideas. I'm going straight to that interview and wait, without moving or speaking, especially to you, for four hours. 
 (ignoring her) Come on! We're going to the Plaza! We can be Eloise! We'll get a nice room, you can take a shower and I'll swap clothes with you! Simple as that! 
 Do you have the slightest clue what that would cost? (CONTINUED) 
 So? You've got the emergency credit card Mom gave you, right? Drew's suddenly looking at her EMPTY HANDS. 
 What's wrong? 
 (dawning realization) Oh.   My. God. 
 Where's your, uh, stuff? 
 (near coma) I left it in his car. 
 Oh. 
 He knows where I live. He's going to hunt me down and kill me. 
 Come on, Drew. I don't think even the Mafia kills people just for scamming a ride. Quit being paranoid. (beat) So, we don't do the Plaza. I've got... Parker digs in her pockets. 
 Six dollars and thirty-two cents. 
 That won't get me hosed down at a car wash. 
 What are we thinking? You've got your secret-safety twenty! 
 (beat) My secret-safety twenty. Of course. But it's only for emergencies. (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah. Drew takes off her shoe, lifts the inner sole and pulls out a twenty, then realizes: 
 Hey, how'd you know about my secret-safety twenty? 
 That's not important now. But let's just say that it's a good thing for you I think those shoes are so ugly I never borrowed them. (pointing) Hey, how about there? Parker points to hotel where the dilapidated sign reads: THE RITZY PLAZA -- HOURLY RATES, HOT TUBS. 
 No. I want to get clean, not contract hepatitis. 
 (sotto voce) Twenty-six dollars and thirty-six cents. 
 We touch nothing. Parker leads them inside. 
 (swallowing) Hello?    Anybody? (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Keep your pants on. What'dya want? The girls look behind them, nobody.       Behind the bars? Still nobody. What the hell? 
 (O.S.) I don't got all day. 
 (uh...) We need a room... with a shower. Just for an hour. There's the sound of something SCRAPING across the floor and then the MIDGET HOTEL CLERK appears behind the counter. Now he's standing on a STOOL and we don't know what he was doing behind the counter. 
 Sixty bucks. 
 (getting oriented) Hi. 
 You want the room or not? 
 Sixty dollars an hour for this -- 
 (interrupting; covering) -- really nice place. How much for half an hour. 
 Maybe if you two were in school you could figure out that half a sixty is thirty. 
 We've only got twenty-five. (CONTINUED) 
 You think because I'm short you can just charm me into making some deal, is that it? 
 No, not at all. 
 It's all we have. Twenty-six dollars and thirty-six cents. 
 Are you the one that stinks so bad? 
 (insulted) I had a little accident, okay? 
 All right, all right, don't    get your underwear in a bunch.     As a public service, just 'cause    you stink so bad, you can have    it for twenty-five. He retrieves a key and holds it up just out of reach between the bars. 
 Ten-dollar deposit on key. 
 What part of 'That is all the money we have' didn't make sense to you? 
 Sir,   that's every last cent we have   in the world. I swear to you,   we aren't planning to steal your   key. 
 I give you some special deal, the next thing you know, you two are telling everybody, hey, this midget was a real sap. We gave him some sob story and the little guy just busted up into crocodile tears and handed over the key. (CONTINUED) 
 I promise we won't tell anyone. Will we, Drew? 
 Not a word.      Girl Scout's honor. He grudgingly holds out the key for Parker, who takes it and hands it to Drew while she gets the money out. ON -- sensing something, she looks down at her feet where a HUGE RAT is licking the sweet stuff off her shoes. There's a rather LONG BEAT while this horror sinks in, then: 
 
!!!! Key in hand, Drew makes a beeline out the door. 
 Drew?!   DREW?! Parker follows her. 
 Come back with my key! The Desk Clerk jumps off his stool, opens his cage and follows them into the street. 
 Drew!    STOP! CUT TO: 
 Mrs. Greenspan? You're going to have to help. I need you to push. But they don't have her attention which is riveted on... ... A TV TUNED TO "THE TODAY SHOW" WHERE WHACK! THE DESK CLERK DROPS DREW LIKE A SAPP-SACKING GANNON, THROWING THEM BOTH INTO THE LINE OF AUDIENCE MEMBERS, WHO THEN TOPPLE LIKE DOMINOES. 
 MRS. GREENSPAN Did you see that? 
 MR. GREENSPAN Honey?   The baby? Please? CUT TO: 
 All right.   Who's the wise guy? Parker pulls Drew out of the pile-up and grabs the key, tossing it away from them, sending the Desk Clerk scrambling after it. The two girls HIGH TAIL IT around the corner.       Winded, they stop. 
 Man, that little guy could really motor. Why'd you bolt? 
 There was a rat, Parker. A rat the size of a Doberman eating my foot. 
 That was all our money. 
 Our money?   OUR MONEY?! 
 Key down, you're going to have an attack. (CONTINUED) 
 Parker, it was not 'our' money and this is not 'our' day in New York. What it is, is quite possibly the most important day of my life. I've resigned myself to the fact that you don't give a crap about what you do with yours, but if you could find it in your heart, your tiny, cold steel heart, to respect what this means to me, I would appreciate it. But Parker's not listening.       She's staring intently... ... ACROSS THE STREET where several TOWN CARS are parked, the DRIVERS chatting next to a HOT DOG/PRETZEL CART. Among them is Bennie, sipping coffee.       Parker spots him and freezes. 
 You're not even listening. That's typical. Look, we're splitting up. Give me back my secret safety money. 
 (still looking past Drew) You know how I told you not to be paranoid? 
 Paranoid? 
 What I meant was, it isn't paranoia if someone really is chasing you. Parker tries to subtly indicate with her eyes that Drew should look across the street. 
 What's wrong with your eyes? 
 (whispering) It's him. (CONTINUED) 
 Quiet.   Don't run. He'll see us. Not wanting to draw his attention, the Girls shuffle off quickly down the street. ON Bennie -- squinting across at them. Can he make them out in the crowd? He nods to ANOTHER DRIVER, tosses his coffee cup and climbs in behind the wheel. 
 HE SAW US! The girls break into a run. 
 How'd he find us? 
 Maybe it's just coincidence! 
 Or maybe WE TOLD HIM WHERE WE WERE GOING!! She points up at the street sign -- 57th and 5th.   Oops. 
 Come on! Parker leads her into traffic, HORNS BLARING, as they weave their way across. On the far side, a HORSE CARRIAGE pulls away from the curb and at the last minute, Parker spots a fresh pile of... ... HORSE SHIT, which she manages to leap. Drew, however, ISN'T GOING TO MAKE IT OVER. She closes her eyes. 
 Jump! Drew stumbles, wrong-foots the takeoff but somehow manages to get across it to the curb. For just a BEAT, we see her surprised face. Hm. I did it. Then they see Bennie crossing in traffic, huffing and puffing after them and not seeing the pile, which he hits in full stride, slips on, and PLOPS INTO on his ass. This gives the girls the opening they need and they ditch inside some revolving doors. 
 I don't want to do this anymore. I want to be done. No more rats, no more mob hit men. 
 Well, Cinderella, your wish has come true. (gesturing) Voila, La Plaza, mademoiselle. 
 So?     Hello?   No dinero? 
 Yeah. I've got what I'd like to call a 'creative solution' to that. 
 No.     I'm calling Mom. 
 What good will that do? 
 (beat) I'll have her... uh... 
 Have her what? Hi, Mom? Could you leave that baby halfway outta there and drive into the city? 
 Dad, then. 
 Dad, hey. Drew. Complete loser. Couldn't get to an interview by myself, need full bail out. Yeah. I'm the one who was going to change the world, I just couldn't get across town. (CONTINUED) 
 Damn it, Parker, my itinerary is shot to hell! Blue, red -- Her WATCH ALARM BEEPS. 
 I don't even know what that means! I'm running out of time. (noticing) Is that guy looking at me? Parker starts to look. 
 Don't look. 
 When you ask a question like that, the person is going to look. Drew drags her behind a palm. Sure enough, across the lobby, a guy dressed as PLAINCLOTHES HOTEL SECURITY (MORTY SESTERO) now pretends he wasn't keeping an eye on them. 
 I think he was. 
 Drew, we haven't done anything. 
 Yeah, but I'm standing in the lobby of the Plaza looking like a deranged street person who might attack at any moment. In fact, I might attack at any moment. The ELEVATOR behind them opens. 
 Let's go. The girls slip into the elevator.     When it closes, Morty's watching. 
 (whispering) What are we doing? And why am I whispering? 
 We're getting you a shower. Blake Greer pulled this at the Sheraton after the prom. 
 Great. Now we're emulating Blake Greer, voted most likely to commit a felony before having to shave. 
 We're not going to steal anything. We're just going to sneak in, use a little soap and water and get out. 
 Oh, we're not going to steal anything. Super. Just a little 'breaking and entering.' 
 We're not going to break anything. (beat) We are going to enter, however. 
 No.   No.   No. 
 Shhh... here comes somebody. DOWN THE HALL a door swings open and MR. AND MRS. LO BIANCHO, wealthy Bostonians, EXIT their suite. 
 REVEALS -- at the opposite end of the hallway, Parker and Drew aren't the only ones watching. A PAINTER with one lazy eye, ROGER, pauses with his roller and carefully peeks around the corner. MRS. LO BIANCHO It's the New York Kennel Club, Emile, not the New York Knickerbockers. Please call the caterer and cancel the beer. (CONTINUED) 
 Hurry up! 
 No! 
 (beat) I didn't want to have to do this, but... look in the mirror behind you. ON DREW -- bracing herself, she turns slowly. CUT TO: 
 (tentatively) Housekeeping? CUT TO: 
 I can't do this. 
 Drew, you're not a criminal. You just smell like one. This way. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, no.  Oh my god. A... a... (puzzled) What the hell is it? 
 A dog? 
 I'm itching already.   See?   Are my arms red? Drew backs away -- she's about to break for the door. 
 Key down. I'll take him in the living room and keep a lookout. You just get in that shower. Parker approaches The Emperor. 
 (baby talk) Hi, little guy. You don't look so tough, huh? You don't look much like a dog, actually. More like Woody Woodpecker. Happy to give the company, The Emperor practically jumps into Parker's arms. 
 You're cute, aren't you, in a freakazoidal kinda way. She takes him into the living room and moves to the door. 
 Was your daddy a rat? Is that it? Well, I still like you. Parker, holding The Emperor, opens the door a crack to keep a lookout. 
 PARKER'S POV The hallway's empty. But The Emperor, feeling frisky, leaps from her arms into the hallway, then turns TO face her. Come on. Let's play! 
 Come back here, little ratdog. Come to Mommy Parker. Parker pulls off a shoe and sticks it in the doorway to keep it from closing, then, hesitantly, trying not to spook him into running away from her, she steps into the hallway. 
 Bad ratdog! She chases him down the hallway     and then around the corner where they have to dodge     cans of paints, a ladder, until finally The Emperor slides     on some plastic sheeting, careens into a can of     mauve paint and is COVERED. Arms reach down, pick him up and Parker looks up to see the Painter (ROGER) with the now-mauve Emperor in his arms. 
 (breathless) Wow.   Thank you. 
 Thank you. Bye bye. No. He turns and RUNS for the stairwell door marked EXIT. Parker, completely baffled, finally calls after him: 
 That's not your dog!      Hey! 
 (panicked) There's a man in there! 
 Somebody took the dog! They reach the end of the hallway and are TRAPPED. Only one out. Parker HUFFS OPEN the window to the fire escape and they climb out... 
 Hurry up! But DREW'S FROZEN WITH FEAR and to complicate matters, she's struggling to keep the curtain wrapped around herself. 
 I'll, uh, go around. 
 Are you out of your mind?!    It's only a little ways! JUMP! 
 Mrs. Lo Biancho? I'm Mort Sestero, hotel security. MRS. LO BIANCHO Please!   Please help! 
 Someone took your baby? MR. LO BIANCHO The Emperor is missing. 
 (somewhat relieved) The Emperor is a dog, right? MRS. LO BIANCHO Not 'a' dog, no. THE NEW YORK KENNEL CLUB CHAMPION AND WHY AREN'T YOU TRYING TO FIND HIM! Morty pulls his RADIO as he backs out the door and heads down the hall. 
 (to radio) This is Remote One to base, Remote One to base. Code 12, I repeat, Code 12. ANOTHER SECURITY GUY (V.O.) You goin' to lunch already, Morty? 
 (impatient) Code 12 isn't lunch, Bruce! Didn't you read your manual? ANOTHER SECURITY GUY (V.O.) (beat) I will. 
 Call NYPD.    We have a dognapping. ANOTHER SECURITY GUY (V.O.) A what? (CONTINUED) 
 Just call the damn police and patch me through. The Emperor's been kidnapped. ANOTHER SECURITY GUY (V.O.) Holy cripes, why didn't you say it was political?! 
 Political?     THE EMPEROR IS A DOG, 
! ANOTHER SECURITY GUY (V.O.) You want me to call NYPD about a dog? 
 (decrying his fate) I am going to kill you, then fire you, Bruce. Got it? Kill, fire. That order. CUT TO: 
 I can't do it! 
 Yes you can! 
 No I can't! 
 Have fun in prison. Under 'Summer Internships' on your college application, you can write 'license plate manufacturing.' (CONTINUED) 
 (astonished) I did it. Oops, the curtain starts to slip. When she reaches for it she loses her balance and suddenly -- FWONK -- nosedives into the dumpster. The curtain floats INTO THE ALLEY at Parker's feet. 
 (O.S.) 
! 
 Get out of there! 
 (O.S.) (beat) Give me... my... curtain. Parker tosses the curtain in and Drew climbs out.        They hurry off down the alley. IN THE SECOND STORY FIRE ESCAPE WINDOW -- Morty appears. 
 Stop!    Bring back that dog!'S POV -- The girls near the end of the alley. A small dog could easily be concealed under that shower curtain. ON THE GIRLS -- running full-tilt, Drew turns to Parker. 
 He thinks we have the dog! 
 A painter took it! 
 A pain -- WHAM! -- Drew's       CLOTHESLINED at the intersection by a BIKE MESSENGER       who, in a valiant attempt to avoid her, brakes so hard       he flies off the handlebars and lands RIGHT ON TOP OF       HER. (CONTINUED) 
 You know, one of us is gonna get hurt if we keep doing this. O.S. SIRENS signal that the police are now involved. 
 Hey, complete stranger!      Get off my sister! Parker yanks Drew from underneath Dream Guy. 
 I'm, uh, late for this place, thing, where I'm supposed to be. College. Interview! 
 Where at? But Parker's got her by the arm and she can only call back over her shoulder... 
 
! ... before disappearing into the CROWD on the sidewalk. 
 (too late) Me, too! AROUND THE CORNER comes Morty who, without time to react, trips headfirst over Bike Messenger Guy. 
 (French accent) Where are they?! No more breaks! Do you hear me! We have a show to do, you nitwits! Models! BAH! You have hollow gourds for heads! The kind they make those Mexican rattles out of! 
 (always at his elbow) Maracas. 
 Maracas! Maracas that take coffee breaks when I am paying them a 
! Bobo spots the girls coming through the back door and physically grabs them both, pushing them at the Showrunner. 
 Hair!  Makeup! (Parker) Daywear! (Drew) Clubbing! Vite! This is when he gets a load of Drew's matted hair, running makeup and shower curtain and does a double-take. Hm. Does he like it? 
 (confess) Is that Helmut Lang? (recovering himself) Go! The Showrunner shoves Drew one way, Parker the other -- Drew looks at her -- what the hell? Parker CLEARLY MOUTHS: HAIR! MAKEUP! CLOTHES! and TEAMS OF DRESSERS virtually surround them. INSIDE THE MOB OF DRESSERS SURROUNDING DREW the HAIR STYLIST raises his brush and scissors, but PAUSES. The rest of the team stops, watching him make his decision. He shrugs. (CONTINUED) 
 Perfection. He excuses himself and the others begin shoving her into couture. CUT TO: 
 Why does this not surprise me? THE NEXT MUSIC CUE COMES UP and the SHOWRUNNER grabs Drew... 
 Excuse me, but I'm supposed to be going to my college interview. 
 That's rich. A model going to college. What next? Talking monkeys? ... and pushes her through the curtains and... 
! Drew recovers herself a bit.        Wow.   They're clapping for me? 
 (whispering) The hotel guy's here. The juxtaposition of the TWO POLAR OPPOSITE OUTFITS draped over twins suddenly throws the audience into PAROXYSMS OF APPRECIATION for the inspiration of the artist and they call him out! Bobo! BOBO! AUTEUR! 
! Here comes a smiling Bobo, through the curtains, blowing kisses and heading for the girls. 
 (louder) And the police. Bobo presses himself between the girls, taking their hands and beginning his bows, but the girls spot Morty peeking from backstage, and they TAKE OFF, leaping off the front of the stage into the audience like punks jumping into the mosh pit. (CONTINUED) 
 Everybody washed their hands, right? 
. 
 I guess that explains why he's a security guard. 
 (realizing) Perfect. 
 Is this what they call 'returning to the scene of the crime'? Unfortunately for them, to get to the front door they have to pass by... ... the PLAZA MANAGER and the other HOUSE SECURITY AGENT, BRUCE (butch haircut, bad suit), consoling Mrs. Lo Biancho. When MORTY and the COPS come through the doors behind them, however, there's no choice. The girls try to look as inconspicuous as possible heading for the revolving doors but they overhear: (CONTINUED) 
 I assure you, Mr. and Mrs. Lo Biancho, The Plaza will do everything in its power to see that The Emperor is safely returned and that the criminals are brought to justice. MRS. LO BIANCHO Justice?! I want them executed! Tortured first, slowly, and then beheaded! 
 The Plaza's policy is of course to serve you in any capacity we can. Morty spots the girls across the lobby just as they reach the revolving doors. 
 (calling) Bruce!    10-80 at the wagon wheel! Bruce looks over to Morty like he's speaking Slavic, but Morty's furiously pointing and Bruce sees... THE GIRLS break for the revolving doors. Parker gets there first, plunges in so fast that a MAN ENTERING is tossed headlong into the lobby. Drew tries to time the quickly-spinning door but one of the very high SPIKED HEELS catches, throwing her forward and sandwiching her in the revolving door. 
 (no breath) Park... OUTSIDE -- Parker sees Drew caught in the door as Bruce, Morty and the cops close in. Quickly, Parker pushes the door back, releasing Drew, who jumps in and swings out. 
 Damn it! Then, just    to their right, an ELDERLY WOMAN walks through the regular    door just adjacent the revolving doors. All four share    a sheepish look -- uh, maybe we should have thought of    that -- then BOLT outside. 
 Where'd they go? 
 They couldn't have gone very far. We'll split up. (pointing) You go that way! You take Fifth! Come on, get on your horse! Morty and Bruce take the cop's order and race off in separate directions. Neither Hogan nor his partner moves. 
 Coffee? 
 Sure. Williamson and Hogan step over to a hot dog cart set up next to a NEWSPAPER STAND. 
 (to hot dog vendor) Two black. 
 Where do you think those two went? 
 Beats me. They didn't have any stupid dog with them from what I could see. 
 Might have stashed it. (CONTINUED) 
 Maybe they ate it. The cops giggle at this. 
 The rent-a-cop said the mutt's worth like 50 G's. That makes it grand theft, my friend. Five to ten. 
 (to blind cashier) Hey, Speedy. You didn't see a couple of blondes run past here, did you? 
 Yep. Couldn't miss 'em. Real criminal types. Looked like they were headed to Mexico. 
 That's where they all go. 
 REVEALS Drew and Parker, crouched down behind the counter right next to Speedy. 
 See you around. 
 Not if I see you first. The cops head back to The Plaza. 
 I say we put Abbott and Costello on the ransom watch. I don't want to be stuck in the same room all day with Leona Helmsley's nasty stepsister. (CONTINUED) 
 Whew. You know, it's not some old wives' tale about blind people having an acute sense of smell. 
 Sorry. 
 So? What did you do with that dog? 
 We didn't steal it, I swear. 
 A painter did. 
 You girls best give yourselves up and tell 'em the story. 
 (torn) He's right, Parker. 
 Of course he's right. We're going to march in there and give ourselves up right this minute. They will, of course, take us down to the precinct, call Mom and Dad, we'll give our statement, they'll grill us under hot lights for a few hours, force us to confess with some tricky good cop/bad cop routine and the next thing you know we're doing five to ten in Attica. Drew checks her watch. 
 So we'll turn ourselves in right after the interview. 
 May I make one suggestion? (CONTINUED) 
 Sure. 
 Hit the showers before you do anything else. A BEEP BEEP indicates Parker's BLACKBERRY is receiving a message. 
 We're facing felony charges, Parker. Maybe you can do your on- line flirting later. Better yet, he can see you during visitor's hours. Parker reads the incoming MESSAGE from... THOREAU 786:     HOW'D CHEM TEST GO? 
 (beat; epiphany) Oh my God. Warren works in the city. 
 Warren? WARREN?! So you lied, right to my face. No, Drew, this isn't about the chat room guy. Nah! But Parker's typing furiously even as Drew rants on -- she has to lean around Speedy's legs. A GUY buying a newspaper peers down at the strange sight. 
 (to guy) Take your daughters to work day. The guy pays for his paper, leaves. NOTATWIN: WARREN. MY REAL NAME'S PARKER MACLEOD.         MY SISTER AND I NEED A FAVOR. 
 Are you listening to me?!   Give me that stupid thing! Drew reaches for the Blackberry. (CONTINUED) 
 Knock it off, Drew! This guy might be able to help. He lives here. 
 Parker, you have completely lost your mind if you can be thinking about boys at a time like this! THOREAU 786:     PARKER.   THANKS FOR SHARING.   ANYTHING YOU 
. NOTATWIN: BIT OF A JAM IN THE CITY. MOB, POLICE AND HOTEL SECURITY ON OUR TAIL. COULD USE A HIDEOUT. THOREAU 786: LOL!      ADVENTUROUS TYPE.   MEET ME AT WORK? I'M AT THE U.N. 
 (to Drew) The United Nations? 
 You can't possibly know somebody who works at the United Nations. Maybe he meant United Sub Sandwiches. Or United Skate Rats Store. NOTATWIN:     UNITED NATIONS? THOREAU 786:     JUST A DAY JOB.    JOIN THE 11:00 TOUR. SOON. Parker pockets the Blackberry. 
 So. We're going to the United Nations to use the restroom. 
 How convenient. You arrange a little date while your sister's future hangs in the balance. 
 Look, he said he'd help and it's only a couple blocks away. You got a better idea? Speedy opens the rear door of the newsstand. (CONTINUED) 
 (how's he know?) Coast's clear. 
 Thank you, Mr. Speedy. 
 You're quite welcome.    Good luck in that interview. Drew SIGHS, then reluctantly follows Parker out. CUT TO: 
 (to phone) Wal-Mart? (beat) Hey, Marvin. You bet.    Typing away. He glances at the screensaver, the same words pouring out. 
 (suddenly concerned) Today? (beat) Gee, I'm on a real roll, Marv. The juices overfloweth, if you get my meaning. Don't want to plug the juices when they're overflowing, right? (whoa) How much? (beat) Hm. I guess I could carve out some time. (CONTINUED) 
 Got it.   See you in the City. Charley hangs up, punches a key on his computer.       The screensaver disappears and up pops a BLANK PAGE.       At the top: CHAPTER ONE. Nothing else. CUT TO: 
 (to phone) Hello, beautiful Doctor Lady. How goes your day? (beat; huh?) Right next to the magazine rack? What did they name it, Newsweek? (beat) I'm going into the City to meet some big shot publisher. Maybe I'll swing by NYU afterwards and see if I can give Drew a ride home. You talk to her today? (beat) She's probably having too much fun to call. I'll ring her up. Bye bye. He hangs up and of course veers into the other lane again, correcting wildly before resuming his merry way. CUT TO: 
 Rumaki, ma'am. MRS. LO BIANCHO Rumaki! Yech! You might as well wrap dog turds in bacon. Take them away. A SOCIETY FRIEND of Mrs. Lo Biancho, BABS, arrives to pay her respects, shuffling her feet across and leaning in to trade air kisses. 
 Andrea, Andrea. How dreadful!      I shudder to think how the poor Emperor may be suffering. MRS. LO BIANCHO Dear Babs.     I'm at wit's end. When she turns on Morty and Bruce, they both jump a little. MRS. LO BIANCHO (putting on a show) You! Tell the thieves I'll pay anything they want! Anything! 
 Of course.     What price on a loved one? MRS. LO BIANCHO Precisely! 
 I've got to    run. That stupid groomer used    a commercial conditioner    on Coco and she looks like trailer    trash. Babs nabs one of the rumaki on her way out. As soon as Babs is gone, Mrs. Lo Biancho looms over Morty and Bruce. MRS. LO BIANCHO I'll give them ten grand, tops, but only if the dog's back before show time. (CONTINUED) 
 (aside to Morty; whispered) Do you know how to turn this on? CUT TO: 
 We're going to make it, Drew. You'll see. There's still plenty of time. You'll get cleaned up, we can trade clothes... this is a nice suit, huh? Right? 
 (abrupt) Yes. 
 You're going to get accepted, then we can explain the misunderstanding about the dog to the police and everything will be okay. 
 Maybe after the police forgive us for sneaking into someone else's hotel room, we can ask them to please keep the mob hit man from whacking us and dropping us into the marina so he doesn't get his suit dirty. 
 First things first. 
 Parker, I know you're trying to cheer me up, but I have to be honest. This is all your fault. (CONTINUED) 
 (beat) My fault? MY FAULT?! I didn't mean for any of this to happen! 
 Yeah, right! Like you didn't mean to ask Bernie Lipscomb to the prom! 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 I'll bet that was just another accident of yours that happened to screw up my life! 
 Bernie Lipscomb? (dawning) You...? Drew didn't want to admit that -- it just slipped out under pressure. 
 You liked Bernie, too? 
 You know I did! 
 No I didn't.  I haven't seen you talk to a guy since we were in kindergarten and we thought Jerry Wester was a girl. 
 You asked Bernie just to snake him from me! 
 I did not! (beat) Wow, the really spooky thing is, that would mean we liked the same guy. A block away, the United Nations building stands majestically against the sky. (CONTINUED) 
 Isn't that those two right there? He shows the PHOTO to his PARTNER who's driving. 
 #2 I'll be damned. But when they look up: 
 POLICEMAN'S POV -- the girls are gone. They don't take much notice of a HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE passing them with the DRIVER up front and TWO TOURISTS kissing in the back. 
 Where the hell did they go? As the carriage clops past, however, the Policemen don't notice the Girls -- both clinging to the back. 
 #2 (into radio) 605 to Base. We spotted the dognapping suspects, corner of 1st and 49th. 
 (V.O.) (from radio) Copy that, 605. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) (from radio) Car 91, 605 reports suspects spotted at 1st and 49th. Hogan picks up the radio while Williamson FIRES UP the 
. 
 (to radio) 605, do you still have visual? 
 #2 (V.O.) Negative. But they can't be far. They're on foot. 
 (to Hogan) That's over by the U.N. 
 (to radio) See if you can pick them up. We're on our way. Zoom!   Williamson blasts crosstown. CUT TO: 
 (pointing) There they are. 
 DETECTIVES' POV -- just a glimpse as they ENTER the building. 
 What in the world could they be doing here? 
 11:00. 
 (re: Warren) Do you see him? Parker consults the JPEG PIC on her Blackberry, then scans the group. 
 No. At the head of the group, the U.N. TOUR GUARD, geeky in a Clark Kent way and nice enough looking but definitely not a male model, leans into a petite BRUNETTE and her LITTLE 
. 
 (conspiratorially) I can't tell you how much I've looked forward to this. The Brunette looks at him like he's a serial killer. 
 (in Russian) Momma? Her fierce-looking BABUSHKA MOM gets in the Tour Guide's face. 
 Sorry.   My mistake. This is when Drew notices Williamson and Hogan ENTERING and approaching a U.N. SECURITY GUIDE, flashing their badges. 
 Oh, shit.   What now? 
 (out loud) Warren? Does anyone know Warren Collier? (CONTINUED) 
 Parker? Warren moves back to Drew and Parker. 
 Gee, Warren. Isn't that strange? I didn't recognize you from your picture. 
 Yeah, I, uh... 
 (urgently) We don't have time for this now. 
 Do you have an office or someplace private we could go? 
 I just have to do this tour and... But Williamson and Hogan, led by the U.N. Security Guy, ENTER the lobby. Drew grabs Warren by the arm and turns him. 
 We'll get back to that. 
 What's going on? Parker looks Warren right in the eye.     This is a test. 
 It's important. 
 (beat) Okay. Let me get somebody to cover for me. Warren leads them into a small adjoining office... 
 Hey, Angie, take the 11:00 for me, will you? ANGIE (TOUR GUIDE) No way.    Judge Judy's on. Drew grabs Angie by the collar, lifts her up. 
 Angie?    Take the 11:00. 
 (to Warren) You owe me, Warren. Angie heads out to take the tour.        Parker turns on Warren. 
 Are you a lying sack, or what? 
 What was I supposed to do? I liked you. If I'd sent a real picture, would you have met me? 
 That's not the point. 
 That means no. At least this way I got to see you before you blow me off. 
 No one is blowing you off, Warren. As a matter of fact, we're very happy to see you, aren't we, Parker? 
 I guess. 
 And we're grateful for your help. 
 This is my sister, Drew. 
 Not-a-twin, huh? (CONTINUED) 
 That's a joke. 
 Yeah, well. I guess everybody would like the world to see them a little bit differently than they are. 
 (quickly interjecting) Super. Now that that's all settled, is there a restroom I can get to without going out there? 
 What's wrong with going out there? 
 Police, for one thing. 
 Police?   I thought you guys were joking. 
 It's the kind of joke that will be a lot funnier a few years from now. 
 Well that door's the only way out. There's a restroom at the end of the main hall. Parker opens the office door, peeking out. 
 They there? 
 I don't see 'em. 
 They must be searching the building. (CONTINUED) 
 What'd you guys do, anyway?    Mug a couple supermodels? 
 Let's go. With Warren leading the way, they EXIT the office. 
 (O.S.) (spotting them) Hey!   You two! Stop! 
 This way! Almost instinctively, they go COMPLETELY SEPARATE WAYS, Warren and Parker breaking left, Drew right. Drew makes a mad dash down a hallway, makes a turn, another turn, working her way deeper into the labyrinth. Even while running frantically, she tries to smile politely at everyone she passes until she spots a WOMEN'S room and quickly ditches inside. 
 (to person in stall) Are you okay? 
 (near fatally nauseous) Ohhh... I'm so sick. The mussels at lunch. You have to help me. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm kind of in my own private hell right now. 
 What's your name? 
 Drew. 
 Drew... it's vitally important. A FILE FOLDER comes skidding from under the stall. 
 Please.    You have to take this to Canada. 
 Uh, Canada?    It's sort of far away. 
 (struggling) In the Assembly. Give the file to Mr. Wakefield, the Canadian representative. 
 (GROANNN!!) Please. I can't... get up. 
 You want me to take this to the Canadian Representative to the United Nations? 
 Hurry!    This is a crisis! What can she possibly do? 
 (confused but...) Okay. Drew EXITS the stall and goes to the door. 
 Where's the Assembly? 
 To the left.    Run! Drew peeks out the door.       It looks clear.   Out she goes. CUT TO: 
. Nothing here, Hogan closes the door. IN A BEAT, one of the mail sacks wriggles and Warren sticks his head up. 
 He's gone. Parker pops up from the same sack. Face to face, there's an awkward moment of attraction between them. 
 (no better idea) You have nice breath. 
 Thank you. (beat) Maybe we should get out of this sack. CUT TO: 
 (Chinese; subtitles) Impossible! This would be globally destabilizing! 
 (pointing angry finger) Hah!   Posturing and rhetoric! (CONTINUED) 
 (whispering) Sir? He puts a hand to his stomach -- he's struggling. 
 #2 (ugh; groan) Yes... 
 Oh, no. You didn't have the mussels at lunch, too, did you? Even as she holds out the file, he races past her, puckering his bum. She watches him waddle up the stairs BUT AS HE EXITS, HE PASSES WILLIAMSON AND THE U.N. SECURITY GUY IN THE 
. Drew sees them. Uh, oh. The only thing she can do to make herself inconspicuous is to drop into the Canadian Rep's chair and turn her back on them like she's one of the Assembly members. She sits up, shuffles the files around. Glancing furtively to either side, she sees that everyone else is wearing the TRANSLATION EARPHONE. She puts one on. 
 This crisis falls at the feet of one nation and one nation only! 
! ALL EYES TURN TO DREW. (CONTINUED) 
 How do you defend such a position! The world is waiting to hear! These are fighting words. The Assembly grows SILENT. Drew wishes she could BEAM HERSELF somewhere off planet. She gulps air. Glances left, right. BUT SHE KNOWS THE DETECTIVE'S EYES ARE ON THE BACK OF HER HEAD AND SO SHE CLEARS HER THROAT AND: 
 Well, I'm not certain... This furrows some brows. 
 (recovering) ... that I NEED to defend our position! Ah, yes, some knowing nods. ON THE NORTH KOREAN REPRESENTATIVE leaning over to confer with the NORWEGIAN REPRESENTATIVE: 
 (subtitles) Is she new? NORWAY Beats me. 
 She's hot. NORWAY Weird hairdo. 
 That is absurd! 
 Absurd?! Uhhh... where now? She notices the FILE the Rep in the bathroom gave her and holds it up, shaking it for emphasis. (CONTINUED) 
 (dramatic emphasis) Not so absurd, since I have the documents right here in my possession! This draws a CHORUS OF MURMURS throughout the hall. The Chinese Rep suddenly looks terribly worried and pauses to confer with his ASSOCIATE. CUT TO: 
 How are we going to find Drew? 
 Something tells me that won't be too tough. Warren points to the MONITOR. Parker's jaw drops.         Her sister is addressing the entire U.N. Assembly. CUT TO: 
 And besides, who said absurd is necessarily bad? Sometimes absurd is good! For instance, absurd can be sort of... funny! In conclusion, I propose that all of you should talk amongst yourselves. (quickly) Thank you. Like Cinderella at Midnight, she turns and races up the stairs as the Assembly is in complete turmoil -- KOFI ANAN BANGS his gavel. 
 Canada has proposed further debate. 
 U.S. The United States of America seconds the motion! 
 Jin zshe miya BRAD PITT! SCREAMING LIKE BANSHEES, the Japanese Girls all pour outside, Warren and the Girls following. 
 Dingo cashito, BRAD PITT ezukai! The JAPANESE GIRLS turn around and STORM BACK THROUGH THE DOORS, blocking Williamson and Hogan's EXIT. The three of them run for the line of taxis. 
 You speak Japanese? 
 I may not look like an underwear model, but I'm smarter than a hundred of them put together. Warren grabs a Taxi door. 
 Come on! 
 We don't have any money! 
 I'm smart AND rich! Williamson and Hogan have fought their way out through the little Japanese Girls. Realizing they won't reach Parker and Drew in time, they head for their own unmarked cruiser which is parked just ahead of... Bennie's TOWN CAR. He's holding the door for a cigar- chewing CLIENT but watching the Girls climb into the cab up ahead. 
 Follow that... uh... 
 They're following US, Parker! 
 Oh, yeah.   JUST GO! The TAXI pulls away from the curb. 
 Maybe we should give them a little leash and see what they do with it. 
 Fine. But we're gonna have to stop for lunch pretty soon, 'cause I'm getting heartburn. They pull into traffic, following the Cab. In a BEAT, Bennie's Town Car follows, too. 
 Excuse me, what were you doing? 
 Someone was sick in the bathroom and they asked me to -- hold on, I don't owe you any explanation. 
 You're the one all 'I gotta get to this interview or I'm gonna have a nervous breakdown' and yet you have time to address the United Nations? (CONTINUED) 
 You know, technically, you have to have security clearance to enter the Assembly. 
 Not now, Warren. 
 You have a lot of nerve, Parker. It was you that got me tossed off the train! You had to give the bum that dollar! You get the suit, I get the leather bikini! 
 (under) Which isn't so bad. 
 And you got Bernie Lipscomb while I got Scrabble with Mom and Dad! 
 Who's Bernie Lipscomb? 
 I told you, I didn't know you liked him! It was no big deal! 
 It was to me! 
 How could I know? You never tell me anything! 
 There's a good reason for that! 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 You know very well what it means, Ms. Big Mouth! 
 Big mouth?! Ooh, I hope you miss that stupid interview! (CONTINUED) 
 Oh yeah? Well, the joke's on you, because there isn't any interview! Oops. This just slipped out in anger.        Parker's brain has to adjust, then: 
 What? 
 (beat) No interview. I screwed up. 
 You screwed up what? 
 Scheduling the interview.    You deaf? 
 You're Drew. Drew doesn't screw ANYTHING up, let alone scheduling. You're the Iron Chef of scheduling. 
 I missed the deadline. 
 How? 
 After they made the first cut from the preliminary application, we were supposed to send in a form to secure our interview time and I filled it out and had everything ready to go in the mailbox and then... Drew is near tears. 
 And then what? Earthquake? Tsunami? Nuclear winter? 
 I forgot. 
 Forgot? (CONTINUED) 
 Yes. I just forgot. When I found it in my bag a week later, I'd missed the deadline. 
 So today?   All this?   What are you doing? 
 (humiliated) I... I was going to try to meet Professor Spaulding and... 
 You were just going to jump him? 
 Sort of a guerilla interview?     You know, I'm a big Michael Moore fan... A look from Parker quiets Warren.       Drew's choked up.    She just nods, yes. 
 I called and the secretary said there were no exceptions to the deadline so I was going to try to see him when he finished the other interviews. I knew it was hopeless, but... I was so... embarrassed. Drew wipes her tears, then: 
 Oh, to hell with it. She opens the door and jumps out! 
 Drew?!   Drew, get back in this taxi! Parker starts to open her door on the TRAFFIC SIDE! HONK HONK! It's nearly SHEARED OFF by a passing truck and she closes it just in time. 
 She's pretty upset. (CONTINUED) 
 Gee, you really are a genius. As the taxi bogs down in traffic, Drew disappears around the corner up ahead. 
 Talk about spontaneous. 
 Darn it!   DARN IT DARN IT DARN IT! This is when she sees, parked just down the block... ROGER'S VAN with "Michelangelo's Painting" across the back door. 
 That's... that's the painter. Drew quickly steps into the shadow of a doorway to keep out of sight and watch the van. A BLOCK BEHIND THE TAXI -- 
 Did one of them just get out? 
 I think so.   Maybe she's going for the dog. 
 Maybe that's what they want us to think. 
 So we stay with the taxi? (CONTINUED) 
 Unless you want to hoof it after the other one. 
 We stay with the taxi. 
 Get in the back, will ya? The Emperor ignores him, happily watching the streets of New York go by. 
 Stupid dog. But his CALL has gone through.        He imitates a GIRL'S 
. 
 (as GIRL) Hello? CUT TO: 
 Mrs. Lo Biancho calmly answers her cell phone. MRS. LO BIANCHO Yes? Morty and Bruce have their tracing gear rigged to her phone but have to keep following her around the box. 
 (Girl Voice throughout) If you want to see your dog alive again, listen closely. I want a hundred thousand dollars transferred into this numbered Swiss account -- (CONTINUED) 
 Well, Mr. Fancy Pants. You can wipe that stupid smile off your face. I don't think they love you as much as you think they do. He glances at his watch.      He believes Mrs. Lo Biancho and is PANICKING. 
 Where'd she go? 
 I think she took a right up there. 
 (to Driver) Follow my sister. 
 I thought we were the ones being followed. (CONTINUED) 
 Stay flexible, will you please? They turn right. 
 Okay.    Here's how we make the -- MRS. LO BIANCHO (V.O.) (interrupting again) -- First of all, you forgot to disguise your voice. 
 (to himself) Damn it! MRS. LO BIANCHO (V.O.) Secondly, my husband will meet you in ten minutes on the corner of 43rd and Broadway. He'll have the money. Bring the dog. 
 But that's ridiculous!     You'll just bring the police!     No way! Consider him Kung Pau! MRS. LO BIANCHO Fine. 
 Don't hang up! MRS. LO BIANCHO The police, it appears, have other priorities, like humans or something. And I assure you, the Hotel Security... people... will not interfere. In any case, little man, we just want the dog back before showtime, do you understand? (CONTINUED) 
 (beat) Okay. MRS. LO BIANCHO Ciao. She hangs up.        Roger does, too. 
 (to The Emperor) No wonder you look so happy. As far as you're concerned, you've escaped from the Wicked Witch of the West. 
 (to Emperor) Knock it off. Whoosh! From behind, DREW GRABS THE EMPEROR and takes off running. 
 Hey!    Give me that dog! Holding The Emperor at arm's length, Drew makes a run for it with Roger after her. ON DREW -- LOOKING RIGHT INTO THE SMILING MAUVE FACE OF THE EMPEROR. 
 I just want you to know that I'm allergic to you AND cynophobic! She and Roger race right past... ... Mr. Lo Biancho, holding out the Saks bag of money. (CONTINUED) 
 I can't stop!    I have to return this dog! 
 I'll be right back! Puzzled, Mr. Lo Biancho falls in line behind Roger, keeping up pretty well for an old dude with a gut. 
 DREW'S RUNNING RIGHT AT THEM DOWN THE SIDEWALK WITH THE 
! 
 Uh, isn't that your sister? 
 It can't be.    She's terrified of dogs. 
 I'm telling you, I got a hunch these girls don't have anything to do with this dog. Drew blows past them, holding The Emperor. The Detectives exchange glances -- nice hunch -- and they LEAP OUT OF THE CAR TO JOIN THE CHASE. 
. 
 Officer?!   Officer?! But SHOW OFFICIAL #3 appears from inside, taps the Policeman on the shoulder -- they need him inside.   He turns and goes through the door just as... ... Drew reaches the loading dock and hustles up the stairs. 
 Officer?! She sprints past the other SHOW OFFICIALS checking in 
. 
 #1 Miss! You can't go in without credentials! 
 Drew has entered HER OWN PERSONAL CIRCLE OF HELL -- DOGS OF EVERY SHAPE AND SIZE SURROUND HER. 
 (to no one/everyone) Where's the Policeman? A GROOMER combing a HOUND DOG points toward the CURTAINS on the far side of the room and she blasts off that direction. (CONTINUED) 
 
. The TWO SHOW OFFICIALS,    sporting nifty sweaters and manicures, are prepared    to sacrifice their lives to block the door. In addition     to the PARTICIPANTS trying to get inside, they're holding    off Roger, Mr. Lo Biancho, Williamson and Hogan. 
 #1 (quite disturbed) No entry without official credentials! MR. LO BIANCHO I'm Emile Lo Biancho! I demand to be let in! 
 NYPD!   Move aside! At the mention of POLICE, Roger's EYES GO WIDE. He slinks down, losing himself in the crowd and sidles off. 
 #1 (chin set) I'll have to see identification, officers. (to Mr. Lo Biancho) I'm so sorry, Mr. Lo Biancho. Go right in. AT THE CORNER, Parker and Warren keep their distance, not wanting to be seen by the Detectives. 
 You think she made it? 
 She's faster than she looks. CUT TO: 
 Isn't that The Emperor, ma'am? MRS. LO BIANCHO Good God.   He's mauve. 
 THEY CATCH UP TO HER IN A SWARM, KNOCKING HER ONTO THE SIDEWALK OUTSIDE WHERE SHE DISAPPEARS UNDERNEATH A MOUNTAIN OF DOGS! Williamson, Hogan, Morty, Bruce, Mr. and Mrs. Lo Biancho and quite a few SPECTATORS pour out the doors. 
 Please!  I'll get hives! (resigned) Oh, go ahead. 
 DREW'S POV The Detectives appear above her. 
 I, uh, just wanted to return him. As the other OWNERS and HANDLERS gather their dogs, Williamson hands The Emperor off to Mrs. Lo Biancho while Hogan handcuffs Drew. MRS. LO BIANCHO Flog her! Step aside and I'll whip her myself! MR. LO BIANCHO (dead calm) Didn't you say it was a man who called, Dear? MRS. LO BIANCHO So she had an accomplice! We'll beat the information out of the little wench! (handing him The Emperor) Get him cleaned up, Emile. Williamson and Hogan move Drew toward their car. 
 I didn't take her dog, I swear. 
 We'll sort it out. (CONTINUED) 
 But I have this interview. I mean, it's not really an interview. I'd never lie to the police... (it's over) ... never mind. Just as they push her head down into the car, she glimpses a vaguely familiar face among the myriad GAWKERS -- it's the Bike Messenger. For just an instant they lock eyes before the car pulls away. 
 What now? 
 We have to go to the jail and tell them what happened. 
 What on earth did happen? 
 Poor Drew. She wanted to get into that program more than anything in the world. With a SIGH, they turn to go and BUMP -- knock into Bennie, who's staring coldly down at Parker. 
 You goin' somewhere? She's paralyzed with fear. 
 (gulp) Hello, sir. 
 Oh my God!   Please don't kill me! 
 Kill? (CONTINUED) 
 We don't know anything at all! We didn't see anything or hear anything and I'll swear to that in a court of law! Bennie appears unmoved. Parker closes her eyes, trying to meet death with dignity. 
 Just not in the face. 
 What's the big idea? You two a couple a nutbags or somethin'? She opens one eye. 
 Nut bags? No. I mean,    yes. Is there a right answer to  that? See, my sister had this  interview which turned out not to  be an interview, really and I  sort of messed things up because  I wanted to meet him. Indicating Warren. 
 Really?   You came into town just for me?   Wow. 
 Not now, Warren. (back to Bennie) Drew was going to be late even though technically she wasn't going to be late since there wasn't an interview and that's when we got in your car. I promise we meant to pay. It was a true emergency. 
 I meant, why you runnin' when I'm trying to give you your bag back? Bennie hands Parker Drew's daybag.      Parker takes it, still trying to comprehend. 
 You were just...? (CONTINUED) 
 I found your mom's number in the book. She said you needed it pretty badly for that big interview. Listen, I gotta go. It's my mother-in-law's birthday and I gotta plant some stupid rose bush and then take her out to dinner at the Pier. See ya around. Bennie waddles over to his Town Car and climbs in. 
 (beat; calling after) Thank you? 
 Well, he certainly is a good Samaritan. Parker looks at the daybag. 
 You guys lead a pretty interesting life, don't you? But now Parker's mind is elsewhere.     She pulls out Drew's daybook, opens it. 
 We going to the jail, or what? I've never been to a jail before. 
 What time is it? CUT TO: 
 staring at her INK-STAINED FINGERS as Hogan finishes fingerprinting her other hand. (CONTINUED) 
 RED (INMATE) I love your outfit. 
 Thank you. RED Is it Bobo? 
 (how in the world would this woman know?) Yes, as a matter-of-fact, it is. RED He's a genius. OFF Drew's look of complete spiritual resignation we -- CUT TO: 
 Try to keep up, Warren! 
 (calling after her) Hey! I'm an intellectual! I never claimed to be athletic! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 WARREN  (CONT'D) As a matter of fact,  I was excused from P.E. because of  an ascended testicle! (realizing) Too much information,   right? CUT TO: 
 It's all yours. She hands the high heel to Red, who enthusiastically pulls it on and models it. 
 (O.S.) MacLeod? Hogan ENTERS, opens the cell door. 
 You're free to go. 
 No thanks. I'll just stay here with the girls. 
 An eyewitness says he saw who took the dog. Didn't realize the guy was stealing it until he saw us grab you. Hogan takes her by the arm in a fatherly way and leads her out. 
 There's your alibi. 
 I don't even know him. 
 That's what he said. Go home. Get cleaned up, a good night's sleep. None of this will seem so bad in the morning. Hogan leaves them alone.       Bike Guy steps over. 
 You okay? As an answer, Drew merely points to herself -- look at me? Now answer for yourself. 
 I'm Jim Wessler. 
 Thanks, Jim.    How'd you know? JIM (BIKE GUY) Who could forget that face? Reminded, Drew puts a hand to her face. 
 Huh.    No hives. Suddenly, realizing just how awful she must look, Drew becomes self-conscious. 
 Well... bye. She walks past him out the door. 
 Wait.    Where are you going? EXT. NYPD STATION HOUSE - DAY Jim catches up to her. 
 Thanks for getting me out of jail but I have to go home now because my entire life is ruined. (CONTINUED) 
 Bad day, huh? 
 You turn understatement into an art. 
 Can you just tell me your name? Please? 
 (sigh) I'm Drew MacLeod. The girl who won't be going to the NYU Accelerated Program. 
 Why not? Drew looks at her watch. 
 Because short of flying, there's no way to get from here to NYU in five minutes. 
 Sure there is. CUT TO: 
 Wow.   And I thought I was anal. 
 This is no good. I don't do too well with the whole rehearsal thing. I'm more of a 'wing it' person. Parker checks herself in her reflection in the glass. Working herself into Drew form, she puts her hair into a conservative bun and then tries straightening her posture. (CONTINUED) 
 (all business) How's this look? Drewish? 
 You know, I've always had a thing for librarians. 
 Warren, honesty is fine. But you could edit a little, you know? 
 Got it. 
 Wish me luck. 
 Good luck, Drew. CUT TO: 
 May I help you? 
 I'm here to see Professor Spaulding. 
 You don't have an appointment. 
 (beat) Um, no. However... (CONTINUED) 
 Professor Spaulding? 
 Yes? 
 May I have a moment of your time? 
 I'm sorry, but I have a plane to catch. He tries to make a move.      Parker blocks him. 
 I know. But this is very important. 
 What is this about? 
 Life and death, if you must know. The Professor hesitates for just an instant, giving Parker her opening. She grabs his hand, giving it a vigorous, Young Republican shake. 
 I'm Drew MacLeod. 
 Ms. MacLeod, I hope this is interesting. 
 Trust me. 
 (O.S.) Yo!    Coming through! (CONTINUED) 
 You okay? The old Drew is back.     She scrambles out of the shrub... 
 Fine. ... and up the stairs -- then stops, turns. 
 Wait right there. (beat) I mean, I don't want to be bossy. You don't have to stay right there, if you don't want to. 
 I'll be right here. 
 Great. She launches herself into the building. 
 (primly) I promise you, though my missing the deadline seems to suggest otherwise, my studies would never suffer on account of my being unorganized. This was, and I think anyone who knows me would vouch for this, a complete anomaly. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 PARKER (CONT'D) I was so thrown when my sister asked Bernard to the dance that I simply failed to post the schedule request and seeing it already checked off on my to-do list, I over-looked it until after the deadline had passed. 
 Ms. MacLeod, I recall your application being one of the strongest we received. Not seeing your name on the interview list surprised me. I assumed, of course, that you'd changed your mind. 
 No. Not at all. This program is my number one priority. 
 Yes, well, I'm sure you can appreciate that with so many applicants for so few spaces there must be rules to govern the selection process. A FUSS from the OUTER OFFICE interrupts them and suddenly the door bursts open and Drew BURSTS IN: 
 Professor Spaulding? I can't apologize enough for barging in like this. The Professor is not only thrown by the interruption, but by Drew's particularly bizarre, barefoot look. 
 No. Please. It looks like I'm taking the red-eye now anyway. Drew shuts the door and then is startled when she gets a face full of Parker, already there. 
 Parker? 
 (worried wink) Hi, Parker. (CONTINUED) 
 What are you doing? 
 (don't blow it) Oh, the Professor and I have had a wonderful talk about how important this program is to me and how it was my sister, Drew, who screwed things up. 
 I'm having a little trouble following this. 
 You were... being me? 
 (to Drew) Would you like to sit down? Seeing her plan to help Drew go awry, poor Parker's lip trembles. 
 When I saw them take you to jail... 
 Jail? 
 ... I didn't think you'd make it. I knew I wouldn't be any good at it, but I figured at least there was a chance. 
 (beat) That's... sweet. 
 You're not mad? 
 No. 
 I'm so sorry for today. (CONTINUED) 
 It's okay.    But let's talk about it later. 
 Please.    Go right ahead. 
 Thank you. 
 Parker, consider, just for a moment, whether this is the appropriate time and place. 
 Okay, I considered.     What I want to say is, I didn't    purposefully set out to ruin your    day, but that doesn't mean I'm not    a little... jealous. 
 Jealous? 
 I'm not like you. I don't have your intensity, your focus, your... 
 Fashion sense? 
 I just mean, maybe, even if I don't intend to, maybe that jealousy, you know, gets in the way sometimes. 
 You mean subliminally you're undermining me? 
 I don't know if I'd get that technical about it. But yeah. 
 Well, thank you for saying that. 
 You're welcome. (beat) Aren't you going to confess now? (CONTINUED) 
 Confess what? 
 There's got to be something. Like how you lost your shoes? 
 How you're secretly jealous of me? 
 Why would I be jealous of you? 
 Oh, let me see. Because I don't have a stick up my butt? Because I know how to have fun? Because I'm spontaneous and creative and men are all my love slaves? Drew stops, ponders this deeply. 
 Nope. Then she smiles, only a teensy bit. 
 Well, maybe about the love slaves. This is the first moment in a long time when the sisters share a smile. Drew turns to the Professor. 
 Professor, I'm Drew MacLeod. 
 Are you certain? 
 I wanted more than anything in the world to be a part of your program. I still do. But I failed. I didn't follow the rules. And honestly, before today, I didn't know how I was going to live with that. How to live with failure. I'm not good at it. I haven't done it much. But today I realized that I've lived in fear of it too long. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DREW (CONT'D) I hope my application was a strong one and I came here today to ask your indulgence and to place my name back into consideration. If you won't, I'll understand. Better yet, I'll get over it. Maybe I shouldn't be in such a hurry after all. Maybe it would be best for me to just take this... Drew takes her DAYBOOK from Parker and drops it in the wastebasket. 
 ... and lighten up. Parker looks horrified at the sight of Drew's daybook in the trash and fishes it out. 
 Thanks for your time. Sorry if you missed your plane. He shakes her hand. 
 It was worth it, I assure you. Now, could you clear up one thing for me? 
 DREW/PARKER Sure. 
 What's this about jail? CUT TO: 
 Thanks. The sisters hug, but we GO... (CONTINUED) 
 Sis? 
 Yeah? 
 Gotta go. Parker grabs Warren by the hand and blasts around the corner just as... Charley MacLeod pulls up in his truck and parks half on, half off the curb. He leans over, waving to Drew. 
 Hi, baby! Drew goes over to the truck. 
 I was in the city. I tried to call you. Thought you might want a ride home. 
 Sure. 
 (what?) Is that a new outfit? 
 Yeah.     Hey, one minute, 'kay? 
 Sure. Drew goes back to Jim. 
 Thanks. 
 You're welcome. 
 I, uh... (CONTINUED) 
 You want to maybe... get together? 
 First I want to take a shower. For about a week. Drew leans over and kisses him on the cheek.         Then she reaches into her bag and pulls out a card. 
 Call me, okay? 
 You have a card? Aren't you in high school? She smiles, shrugs and climbs in her dad's truck. They pull away, leaving Jim waving. When they're out of sight, Parker and Warren come back around the corner of the building. 
 Oh, man. I'm doomed.     I'll never get home before them. 
 Sure you will. Warren pulls out a CELL PHONE, hits speed dial. 
 Dad?   Hey.   I need a favor. 
 Warren, something tells me you're spoiled! 
 Yes!   But in a good way! DISSOLVE TO: 
 (sternly) Girls? Quinn steps in, grimfaced. 
 How naive do you think I am? The Girls share a look.       Busted. 
 We, uh, don't think you're naive, Mom. 
 No. Honestly, it was all an accident. Quinn holds out her hand revealing a BELLY RING. 
 I know what this is. There's almost a palpable sense of relief between the girls. They BOTH LOOK DOWN and pull up their shirts -- Parker's not the only one who has her naval pierced -- Drew does, too. 
 Parker, I'm disappointed you'd do something like this without consulting me, but Drew? What got into you? Do you know how unhygienic those places are? 
 It was... spontaneous. 
 Yeah. Obviously. Oh, by the way... She holds out her other hand, which has an envelope. 
 This came in the mail. They stare at the envelope -- NYU ADMISSIONS DEPARTMENT. 
 So?   Open it. There's a HONK. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) The guys are here! Parker and Quinn stare at Drew. 
 Come on! 
 It doesn't really matter one way or the other. Maybe I shouldn't be in such a hurry. Why don't we go out and have some fun. Besides, if this isn't good news, I don't want it to ruin our night. Parker and Quinn simply continue to stare. CUT TO: 
 So, how'd you two meet the girls? Jim and Warren share a look.        This is a story best left untold. 
 JIM/WARREN (simultaneously) A dance/A class. 
 Dance class, huh? Stupid    me. I figured it had to be that   day in New York when Parker blew   off her chem test and Drew was in   jail. Charley smiles.       He's not as out of it as he appears. Suddenly, all three women SCREAM JOYFULLY O.S. 
 
