 
 - 
 
 Pan American Flight 1 to Frankfurt, London, and New York has arrived and will be ready for boarding at Gate 7 in 20 minutes. 
 And you ate two baclavas, right? I not to touch them, mine was awful. 
 Passport! 
 Bag! 
 Nebu? 
 Nebu? 
 Ah! (puzzled, turns the Frisbee around and around) 
 Take off the glasses. 
 Aaaah! 
 Are you all right? 
 (saddened) D'you see this?  Janis Joplin died yesterday. 
 SUSAN (OFF) Overdose, in a Hollywood motel. 
 
 (a faint voice) Never Was anybody like Janis. 
 (annoyed, brushes his hand away ,a clicking sound in her throat) You can't take anything seriously. 
 Attention please, Ladies and Gentlemen. For your own safety we're conducting a security check before you board your airplane, Kindly file out the back. Women and children in one line. Men in another. 
 What's he saying?  I don't know... Marian.  Hey Marian, what the hell... 
 Idem. 
 Jesus, they do everything ass backwards in Turkey. 
 They're checking for hijackers. Any Palestinians aboard? Hey Harry, get rid of your grenades... 
 SUSAN (OFF) Billy, what's the matter? 
 No! 
 (picking up the real fear in his voice) What is it? . . . Billy? 
 TURK (OFF) Just a minute! 
 (frowns) No! 
 (grunts a command, makes a gesture) 
 (screaming) Bomb!  He's got a bomb! 
 Bomb!  Bomb! 
. 
 (yells out) It's hashish. just a smuggler. 
 SOLDIERS (OFF) (in chorus echo, relaxing, chuckling) Hashish...smuggler...hippy... 
 ...Billy...? 
 FIRSTOFFICER (OFF) Name? 
 Vi... Vilyum... Vilyum... 
 Hi-yes... (writes it down) 
 -- 
 'Merican? 
 Ahhhh...Nev Yok! (writes it down) 
 Name? 
 Vil... Vilyum...? 
 No.. He's smiling. Make him look miserable. 
 (running up) Gel?  Gel?? 
: 
 (screaming at SECOND 
) You idiot, you fool. You told me the American was searched... and he's pulling hashish out of his boots!  You're all dogshit! 
 (turning on First Officer, screaming) You worthless piece of garbage, where did you learn to search a prisoner?  He's been in our custody for an hour, etc. 
 (screaming at the others) Who searched him?  Who? 
 VOICE (OFF) Howdy, Billy. Howya doing, Ok? 
 (smiling, extends Billy's clothes) I think these gentlemen have finished for the time being if you'd like to put your clothes on. 
 (thickly accented English, sympathetic) Are you afraid, Vilyum? 
 Good. There's nothing to be afraid of. If you co-operate with us, you will be on the plane for New York tomorrow... yes? 
 Good. Now, where did you get the hashish? 
 Would you recognize him again? 
 Good.  Would you go back to the Pudding Shoppe now and point him out to my men if you see him? 
 (casual tone) You decided to fly at a bad time Billy Palestinian Guerrillas all over the place blowing up planes and all. 
 Four planes in four days...but I guess you kids don't read the newspapers...and what with our people kicking up a shit storm 'bout the flow of heroin from Turkey you got... 
 (grins) Well I'm not up on all that. A drug's a drug seems to me Billy and... 
 Well, you see Billy, it don't really matter right now if it's 2 kilos or 200 kilos. The Turks love to catch any foreigner smuggling - it shows the world they're fighting the drug trade. 
 Just what? 
 (not looking at him) Something like that. Cigarette? 
 How much you pay this joker... this cab driver? 
 How much did you figure to make? 
 Beats working. 
 Got a family back there? 
 What's your father do? 
 (a pause, not looking at Billy) Be tough on 'em. 
 
 Girlfriend? 
 Lucky girl. 
 Let's hope so, Billy.  Let's sure hope so. 
 HIPPIES (OFF) (in passing, low) Hey Janet, why don't you go sell 'em some dope. 
 You seem like a nice enough kid to me Billy, but try it and I'll blow your fucking brains out. 
 Dear Mom and Dad. This is the hardest letter I've ever had to write. know the confusion and the pain it will cause you.  And the disappointment... 
 (continuous) I really thought knew what I was doing with my life. I'd hoped somehow to get out of this quickly so that you'd never know about it. But that just isn't possible now. I don't know what's going to happen. But what can I say to you?  Will 'I'm sorry' make a difference? Will it ease the pain, the shame you must be feeling?  Forgive me...Please... 
 (in English) Mo sell...Too late.  Tomorrow... 
 (through the bars) You be here tomorrow.  "Ayi Gedjaler"("good night") 
 VOICE (OFF) Pssst! 
 VOICE (OFF) (Whispering) Your cell, no key.  Open...! Blanket. Three cell down. You get me one. Take... 
 VOICE (OFF) Ziat go for night.  Go! 
 (tugging the sheet, growls) Brack!...Brack! 
 You, goddamn you, give me sheet. Give me! 
. 
 (to one of the guards) Name? 
 (checking a clipboard) Vilyum Hi-yes 
 (looking at BILLY, repeating it) Vilyum Hi-yes... 
 Vilyum Hi-yes 
! 
 (In some sort of English, smiles) No do. No do. 
 (close, intense) Hey man, he's gotta walk, or his feet gonna swell up worse. 
 Smoke this rocket, it'll cool the pain. 
 You gotta walk around some man, or your feet gonna swell up something bad... 
 BELL (OVER) You've been out for days man, talking all kinds of shit. Come on, we'll walk you down to the courtyard. 
 Okay? 
 How's it feel? 
 Getchmis olsun 
 Olsun - "May it pass quickly." I'm Bell, Jimmy Bell. This is Erich something Swedish. 
 (smiling) Just Erich. 
 Yeah... Only the room service is lousy.  Come on, let me show you the tennis courts. 
 (watching Billy limp) Feeling all right? 
 (grins, interjects) 'Figgers. 
 Hamidou.  Chief of the Guards. Don't fuck with him. He almost killed an Italian dude couple months ago.  Bad news. He try anything with you? 
 With these fucking Turks, soon as the light goes out... I keep one hand on their feet and their feet better not grow.  You'll meet Max. He got raped something bad down in Section 13. That's the pits. 
 (snorts) Little fuckers are thieves, rapists, pickpockets, murderers, you name it - they do it. Don't trust any of 'em... 
 BELL (OVER) ...They tell Ziat everything. He's the squeal round here. Goes all over the prison.  Sells watered- down tea, blankets, hash, black money, nembutols --anything for a buck... 
 (continuous) He was an informer on the outside but he tried to screw the cops out of 60 kilos of opium. Watch him, he's a fox. 
 BELL (OVER) Whatcha' in for, smuggling? Rash? 
 (shaking his head) History, man, history. How much? 
 Where? 
 (whistling a kind of punctuation) Could be ten or fifteen.  Maybe even twenty. 
 Twenty fucking YEARS, man - YEARS! I figger ten at the least. 
 Yeah, what do you think this is, the good USA? This is Turkey, man... (laughs bitterly)) It's a fucking accident here if you're innocent. And anyway... ...ain't nobody who's innocent. 
 (his English is halting but has a calming effect) Don't pay too much attention, anything is possible in Turkey. You might get bail. 
 ...If you make bail, you're free. You can get a fake passport or sneak across the border to Greece. The Greeks hate the Turks so much they never send you back. The Turks know it. They just keep the bail. money. 
 Sure, keep dreaming and see where that gets you... like Max, up in the head, you know... (makes a crazy signal towards the head) You gonna eat a lot more fasoulia beans, Billy baby, 'fore you taste a hamburger 'gain cause you broke the law man, and you got caught... (grins) And that... is history. 
 The law is sometimes wrong. 
 (eyes feverish) The Law is never wrong, asshole. The Law is! 
 New people sometimes get on his nerves. 
 He was caught steeling from a Mosque.  That's heavy here.  He got 30 years. 
 Jimmy has more balls than brains. He didn't tell his parents he was in jail for a year and a half.  He says he got himself in and now he's going to get himself out. 
 Hashish.  Ninety percent of the foreigners are in for hashish. 
 (passive) Twelve years. 
 A hundred grams. 
 There is no fair in Turkey, Billy. It's all "sula-bula" like this, like that. An Italian hippie had a car accident and a Turk was killed. SO, they threw him in here for six months... 
 But he was eating lunch a mile away when the Turk smashed into killed himself. 
 (shakes his head) Aslan, there... (points) 
 ERICH (OVER) Killed a guy. But his father's a big gangster on the docks.  A "Kapidiye."  He'll stay in... twelve months no more, and get parole. In Turkey, murder is manly - "erkek". 
 You just got to get yourself a good lawyer.  And some money... Talk to Max.  He's been in the longest. 
 Seven years... 
 
 (smiles) Gastro.  Stomach medicine. Has codeine in it... Best can do 
 Lawyers? 
 Yeah... there's no straight lawyers in Turkey... They're all bent bent as hairpins... 
. 
 His name? 
 Who? 
 The lawyer? 
 What lawyer? 
 Who got the Frenchman out? 
 Oh Yesil...  Yesil's his name but I...don't know anything... 'bout...Yesil... 
 Best way is get your ass out... any... way... you can... 
 Get the... midnight... express. 
 Billy! 
 
 (voice quivering) ...Don't worry about it. (managing a smile) I can punch you in the nose later. Right now we've got to get you out of here.  You all right? 
 Bad. She couldn't make the trip. You know Her boy... (breaks off) Susan told us before we got your letter. She's fine; she's trying to get the money to come back and see you, but... 
 Same. None of the neighbors know. We told them you were in a hospital in Europe.  Oh... this is Stanley Davis. He's the American Consul here... And Necdit Yesil, the lawyer you wanted... 
 
 (shaking hands) Hello, Billy. 
 I want you to know we're going to do everything, in our power to get you out as soon as possible. Believe me. 
 
 Vilyum, I am Necdit Yesil. 
 I know exactly what you feel but you must not worry, we are acting immediately, we get the right court, the right judge,  I arrange everything - just right.  And I think we get you bail. If very bad, maybe twenty month sentence... But I think we get you bail... 
 (reassuringly) You know I have lectured at the University of Maryland in your country?  Also University Michigan Very nice country. We both go back. (smiles) 
 (pacing up, hungry) Right!  That's what we're shooting for.  Mister Davis and have been in contact with the State Department, but right now relations with the Turks aren't too good, Nixon's upset the hell out of them. Our best bet's... right here. 
 
 Don't worry about it.  Right now money doesn't count. Okay? 
 Where'd you get that limp? 
 (pulls up a seat next to Billy) The Hilton. 
 Well, it's an interesting place... (lowers his voice, a hint of a smile) Tell you the truth, I think the food is lousy. The crap they sell in these little restaurants. I went out to eat in one of them last night, and I had to run to the damn toilet... You shoulda' seen the toilet. 
 Yeah, with real toilet paper - and you don't have to use both sides. 
 So now I'm eating at the Hilton every night. 
 Why'd you do it, Billy? 
 (sighs) I know you kids smoke that stuff, and we drink booze, but taking it across a border - it was stupid, Billy. Stupid. 
 Thank you, Prosecutor. The Court will now recess to consider its verdict. 
 (hurried) It's not important, just technical things. We make our case.  You were very good, you spoke well. The Judge like you. It look good. Don't worry. 
 The Defendant has been found guilty by the Court of the illegal possession of Hashish... 
 ...Therefore. this court sentences you, Vilyum Hi-yes to be imprisoned at Sagamilcar Prison for a term of four years and two months. This Case is now closed. 
 Four years, two months. It's good. 
 (stunned) Four years! 
 (quickly) We appeal it. 
 You will see, he will have maybe one year taken off this sentence for good behaviour. Remember, it is only for possession; the prosecutor wanted life sentence for smuggling... (a smile) To be honest Mr. Hayes, it is a great victory! 
 (embarrassed) ...With good time Billy it works out to about 3 years... then there's the appeal.  Yesil, Davis, they're all working for you We're going to try to make a deal to get you transferred to a Stateside prison. And Davis thinks there might be a political amnesty any month... 
 Look - I know it sounds tough, Billy, but we're gonna get you out... 
 ...I promise you, but I don't want you to get stupid again. Pull anything.  They can play with your sentence. 
 (his voice starting to crack) I'm putting $500 in the bank for you.  Anything you need you write... 
 There's food, candy, writing paper, soap, books... (his eyes start to water) ...cigarettes, soap, tooth-brush, there's... Jesus! (cracks, throws down the cigarette carton) I been writing insurance policies on people for thirty goddamn years... (laughs and cries at the same time) And now I gotta see my own son...Jesus! Jesus!  If I could be where you are Billy, I'd be there... Goddamn Jesus!  These bastards. 
! 
 Oh Jesus! (sobbing) 
 You take good care of my boy, you hear, or I'll have your fucking head, you Turkish bastard! 
 BILLY'S VOICE Dear Susan.  1970 has now passed into 1971.  You can drift in here and never know you're gone. You can fade so far out and you don't know where you are anymore or where anything else is... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) I find loneliness is a physical pain which hurts all over; you can't isolate it in one part of your body. I so much need your softness, your strength. I have your letters. They charge me, give me courage.News about amnesty and getting out - tangled, complicated... 
 ...I feel myself drifting more heavily into smoking hashish. The haze helps the time pass. Also I do soap carvings.  Erich taught me. And I have been learning Turkish because it helps me to deal with the guards and the prisoners. I'm trying hard to maintain some sort of schedule to my life, but sometimes it seems like I'm just trying in order to try... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) ... In the daytimes we sometimes play volleyball against the big Turkish gangsters... 
 BILLY'S VOICE ...To the Turks all foreigners are "ayip" - unclean, dirty. We don't shave our under-arms or around our crotch... 
 (continuous) Even the yoga I sometimes do is "ayip" - too suggestive... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) And you're never supposed to eat with your left hand. You know why? Because that's what they use to wipe their asses with instead of toilet paper.  And yet they hate pigs. There are no pigs in Turkey. They're considered dirty... 
 (continuous) So is homosexuality. That's a big crime here but most of them do it every chance they get.  There are about a thousand things that are "ayip".  But they're really so hypocritical, like children breaking the rules. For instance... 
 (continuous) ...You can stab or shoot some body the but not above the waist because that's intent to kill. So everybody runs around stabbing everyone else in the ass.  That's what they call 'Turkish revenge'.  There's also a lot of "Baksheesh" that's a favorite Turkish word for bribery... 
 Unfortunately my youngest son Arief is having problems with his teeth; he needs braces, but dentists are so expensive these days 
 (patting Arief on the head) Poor kid... You know I have a friend, a very good friend; he's a dentist; maybe he could get you some braces at a... reasonable price. 
 (protesting with his hands, shaking his head)) Oh, no...it's out of the question...wouldn't want to ask your friend... 
 Yes. Please! As a favour... I insist 
 (continuous) Hamidou hints that he needs new braces for one of his sons.  Aslan of course has a friend who's a dentist.  They bullshit for half an hour and Hamidou finally accepts the "Baksheesh" in return... 
 (continuous) Dope and all kinds of shipments get delivered to Aslan, who re- sells it through his runners. People like Ziat.  But one night, it backfired... 
 (continuous) There were thousands of yellow nembutols.  Aslan as usual had the privilege of going into the courtyard before anybody else to pick up his stuff but... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) ...it happened to be a new guard that day and he didn't understand the system. 
 No. It's too early. 
 Open the fucking Gate, you asshole! Do you know who I am? You want to get in trouble! 
 (angry) Hey, I your mother! Get back to your bunk. 
 Aslan...be reasonable. Come down and talk. 
 ASLAN (OFF) (from second story) You come up here and talk! 
 (not moving) Aslan... if you give up the gun, you can keep the bullets 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) A week later Aslan had a new gun... 
 BILLY'S VOICE ...I know all this must sound crazy to you, but this place is crazy... 
 
 PIS!  PIS" ("Obscene, filthy") 
 You see Mamur, Mamet - what happens when you're not a good boy. 
 (continuos) Then there's Ziat.  The more I know of him... 
 ...the more hate him. 
 Ten dollars for this shit?  You greedy one-eyed git. 
 NO!   Is good! (gets his English wrong) Me good shit. (Meaning my shit is good) 
 No!  You big shit! 
 Yeah! Efe big shit. 
 
! 
 You asshole! 
 Hikmet come here boy.  Hikmet 
 Cat, ah!  Ayip! 
 (glares at him, then lets it go) Look, you don't fuck with me, I don't fuck with you, right? 
 (amused) I make special tea for you, Hiyes, okay?  We've to live like brothers. We have to be in here together. 
 You 'Merican.  You don't know. 
 Was.. (makes gesture with his fingers) ...seven years old. I was on street in Suk.  Buy.  Sell.  No family to take care. I learn. 
 Dog eat dog, Hi-yes. You fuck other man before he fuck you. (grins) And you must fuck last. 
 (shakes his head) You 'Merican.  You don't know. 
 Here Hikmet!  Come down here boy! Hikmet... 
 Sodding cat! 
 
 (smiling) The new American Ambassador here is following your case very closely. He says there is progress. But there is another route that is quite possible... (lowers his voice and leans close) ...For the proper amount of money it is possible I can convince certain officials to lose track of your papers before the High Court in Ankara confirms the sentence of the Lower Court in Istanbul... You would not exist; and you could be in Greece by the time the Turkish courts discovered a stupid clerical mistake...But I have to act before the official sentence is handed down, and for that I must pay certain officials in advance... 
 SUSAN'S VOICE ...My dearest Billy. I know it is long and it is hard for you, but your family and I are thinking about you all the time. I am trying hard to make enough money nights to come and see you.  Your father says that lawyer Yesil wants another $2000.  I know you distrust him more and more, but your father wants to do everything he can, and he is borrowing all he can on the mortgage of the house.  Money seems to be the only way out of there. Except of course the other way... 
 SUSAN'S VOICE (continuous) ...But I cannot say I am for it. Nor are your parents. They consulted the priest, and he said to send you money for that reason would be like sealing your death. 
 (excited) The blueprints! 
 To what? 
 The prison, man. There was this German cat an architect in the hospital. He was helping the Turks build some shit round the place. I laid some bread on him and he let me copy them. 
 
 Too bad you didn't have a machine. 
 (intent) There's two ways out I figger - over the roof, but that's only one person, maybe two. The other way is Under. 
 (grins) It's already built!  There's a basement substructure where they used to keep weapons and stuff, but beneath that there's these old catacombs that the Christians built 'bout a thousand fucking years ago to bury their dead.  We're sitting right on top of it -- here. 
 BELL (OVER) The Kraut said there's a whole bunch of hollow sealed shafts sort of like dumbwaiters running along this wall; one of them is right in there, right next to our shower. We get in there, he says, we can get down into the catacombs. With three of us working.... (stops) 
 Gotta be here someplace.  Thought I heard a couple of dead Christians singing down there. 
 
 (irritated) Stop shitting me, man! 
 I suppose you knock three times and ask for St. Peter. 
 (turning on Max) Hey!  I'm getting this together man and I don't need no fucking Gastro-head along on this trip! (a fierce look at Max then back to Billy) We go through the wall. 
 (quite sure Bell is out of his skull) We go through the wall. 
 ...The Kraut was right!  I checked it out - there's no reinforced steel in those bath walls. They're real soft from underground seepage-- 
 (gesturing profusely) --the water like "'weeps" through the cement, see. Twenty, thirty years, you can almost push it over. All we do is use Gastrohead's screwdriver here and scrape the mortar out. Pull out 2, 3 stones, squeeze through, put 'em back, and get our ass down the shaft, It's a two night operation, maybe three. 
 And what do you do when you in the catacombs? 
 The catacoombs?  Whaddya want, a door?  There's miles of em like a sewer system but they got to come up someplace in Istanbul. 
 You gotta be fucking crazy!  You got stabbed in the ass once too much, sweetheart, cause you're gonna end up in Section 13, that's what - not the 'catacombs. 
 (looking at Bell) Yeah,  for the criminally insane. (looks at Billy) I was there once for two weeks and it ain't an illusion. It's awful. Namidou runs it like a death camp, that's where he spends most of his time... 
 I don' t know. It's someplace down in there.... (points at the ground) ..deep.. A big door...a wheel.... 
 
 (low-keyed) Hey, you know what's gonna get us out of here?  It's not a map, Max. It's our balls. You know what I mean... (straight at Max, Billy, very sincere, his eyes almost watering) ...I gotta get laid man, I don't know 'bout you guys, but if I don't get it on soon, I'm... I'm not gonna make it. 
 (under his breath) Shit. 
 Billy? 
 Well fuck it!  Choose your own death, babe, I'm taking the roof out of here! 
 BILLY'S VOICE Dear Susan. Poor Jimmy was caught and beaten so badly he got a severe hernia and lost a testicle. He's been in the hospital for months having operations.. 
 (continuous) ...In comparison my problems seem very small. But two and a half years have now gone by, and in their own fashion, the Turks are slowly draining my life away... 
 BILLY'S VOICE ...I have problems with my stomach and my leg muscles feel very weak. My gums seem to be shrinking and they sometimes bleed when I massage them... They've pulled five of my teeth... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) ...sometimes they null the wrong one... 
 (continuos) ...even my dreams don't seem to work any more. Because the outside doesn't seem real any more. It's not even a fantasy...because there is no fantasy. 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) Even masturbation has become boring. It teaches you, like the rest of prison life, to seal up your emotions, and this is the greatest danger, this is what makes so many of the men change into something monstrous... 
 (continuous) It is Erich who has taught me how it is to be conscious, to channel and direct my energy.  He has convinced me to stop smoking hashish, he is the calmest man I have ever known.  If you don't control your energy in here if can blow you apart like with Bell. And you can't waste it either.  You have to weigh up every one of your actions - for and against.  Too little sex, too much sex either will throw you off balance... 
. 
 (continuously) ...he has taught me about feelings, and the need to express them.  And he has taught me about love... 
 (continuous) ...and what love really is, beyond its physical forms.. .I think up to now I have only considered my own self, never really another... 
 ...and now strange as it seems, Susan, without having seen you in so long I feel myself more inside of you than ever before. I feel your female mind.  I sense you, touch you; ...know you; and find myself falling more and more... in love with you. 
. 
 BILLY'S VOICE Dear Susan. Erich has been transferred to a prison back in Sweden. He has profoundly affected my life and though I am lonely without him I am calmer than ever... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) Though I only have 53 days left, I feel I have never been so well adjusted to prison and to living as now.... 
 BELL (OFF) Allah fuck Off! 
. 
 Asina Covaciml. (I stick it in his mouth) 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) ...Poor Jimmy... 
 (continuous) ...Though his health is bad he still won't give up... 
 BILLY'S VOICE (continuous) ...He still talks of escape. 
 Sit down a moment, Billy.  I'm afraid I have some bad news for you. 
 No... It looks like your going to have a new court. 
 The Prosecutor objected to your sentence for possession; he wanted a smuggling conviction and the High Court in Ankara reviewed it. 
 
 We've been notified that they rejected the sentence... 
 (continuing) There were 35 judges on the High Court. Twenty eight of them voted for a life sentence. 
 DAVIS (OFF) The Lower Court in Istanbul will have to go along with the decision. The Judge likes you and he'll do the only thing he can do under the law.... . He'll reduce the sentence to thirty years... We're notified... Billy. 
 (choking) Billy!  Please! 
: 
 Would Your honor like me to translate? 
 That won't be necessary 
 (emotionally) My hands are tied by Ankara! 
 TRANSLATOR (OFF) My hands are tied by Ankara! 
 JUDGE (OFF) I must sentence you, Vilyum Hiyes... 
 
 ... to be imprisoned at Sagamilcar for a term no less than thirty years...Getchmis olsun 
 TRANSLATOR (OFF) "I must sentence you, Vilyum Hiyes, to be imprisoned at Sagamilcar for a term no less than years... "Getchmis Olsun" 
. 
 TRANSLATOR (OFF) "May it pass quickly." 
 TURK (OFF) Hey knock off that shit music... 
 ...We're playing the sas. 
 (understanding their Turkish) Omina koyden your sas! (Put your sas in your cunt!) 
 ...And besides that I fuck Allah and I fuck your Muslim mother too... 
 You got that, shit face? Asina... 
 BILLY'S VOICE Dear Susan. It's taken me a long time to find out that it's got to stop somewhere. I've learned painfully not to trust the Turks, the courts, the lawyers, the Consul, the United States Government, and not even my loving parents. There is only one way out of here.. The Midnight Express. 
 (in a whisper) We're undermining the other stones! 
 We gotta take a chance and do that one next - (pointing) Then pull out this one - (pointing to the one directly left of the loosened stone, excited) Just jiggle it, scratch it out, loose nit up, it's soft real soft! 
 What? 
 I told you, I told you you cock- suckers!  You didn't believe me. 
 Fuck me! You beautiful mother, you! 
 (mutters to himself) Work, work, work, that's all do 
 Want me to take over? 
 Get off our tits! 
 (sudden) Let's go! 
 Yeah. 
 (persistent) Haps, railroad, bus timetables? 
 (business-like) Everything. 
 Yeah! 
 (struggling.) What? 
 Don't make me laugh. 
 VOICE #1 (OFF) What do you mean, you forgot, he'll have my ass! 
 VOICE #2 (OFF) Well I can't do two things at once, you were supposed to be here at nine o'clock! 
 (looking up, scared) Jesus! 
 
 Nah, just covered with batshit! 
 (desperate) The fuck are we? 
 Two thirty. 
 (slumping to the ground) It's a dead end. The Turks musta' sealed it up. 
 What the fuck we gonna do? 
 
 What?  You gotta be joking. 
 You gotta have a lot of balls for this 
 (murmurs) Count me out. (to himself, shaking his head) Who ever heard of anybody sneaking back into a fucking jail? 
 Yeah, what if got caught? 
 (between giggles) Who's laughing?  I mean I find this terribly depressing... Can you see old Hamidou's face when he tries to figure this one out? 
 Billy, wake up!  They found it! 
 Ziat! 
. 
 Shut up! 
 No do!  No do!  I tell you I see you again.. Finish! 
 Take him! 
. No!  Oh no!  No... 
 You bastard! This time I'm gonna kick your fucking brains all over this kitchen! 
 (calm) Fine.  Good.  Man to man.  We fight now.  And when finish I bring Hamidou and he kick you fuckinq ass. 
 Bell's gonna talk. They got to find out. Man, we gotta out. 
 Goddamn Gastro's killing me.  Making me blind. Hey Billy! 
 I got some acid man.  Maybe we can drop some on the guards huh? In their tea or something. 
 Yeah I got it all worked out. Billy, listen to me. (looks at Billy, his eyes glazed) That old guard likes you, You drop some acid on him.  When he's Seeing rainbows yer know. walk out - tonight. 
 What? 
 Oh we... we... 
 Oh shit!  Oh Christ! 
 There just comes a time you know... you know you're never going to git it on. 
 That's what I'm gonna do. (giggles) 
 (crazily) Cut his fucking throat. 
 ZIAT... What do I got to lose huh! What do I got to lose. And I'd really enjoy it. 
 I want to cut his throat. 
 Then I'll cut his balls off. 
 (head bobbing now, murmurs) You know where it is? 
 (a vague grin) I know where it is. 
 'Dem dat hides can finds says I'... I seen him, the clever tit, sneaking looks at it late at night, talking to it. 
 Hishradyo. 
 (his mouth hanging open, eyes closed) His radio Back of his open, radio... 
 That's why he never plays it... 
 VOICE (OFF) Down here! 
 We found it! 
 (heavily accented English) ...He sell me tea business - everything.  No the same. Ziat lose all... (makes the gesture towards the heart and the gut, using the Arabic word) Heart!  Soul! 
 He never had one. 
 Soon he go back streets Istanbul. Thousand enemy.  No money. (makes throat cutting gesture) 
 I'll drink to that. (toasting with the tea) 
 What? 
 (grim) Oh shit. 
 Maybe he's changing jobs. 
 VOICE (OFF) 
 SAYIM!  SAYIM! 
. 
 (opening the matchbox) Nebu? 
 Nebu? 
 (worried) What's going on?  Maybe Ziat can't pay off; Hamidou's taking it out in trade. 
 Where did you get this hash? 
 (cowering, pretending fear) From Max. 
 (under his breath) You got to be kidding. 
 What's happening with this hash? 
 I didn't sell it to him. I don't have anything to do with this, I... 
 (leans closer) I know your face. Where did you get the hash? 
 (turns on Billy, in English) You, goddamn you, shut up! (Back to MAX) Take him to the cellar) 
 Get out of here! He's lying!  That cock-sucker!  Billy...? 
. 
 VOICE (OFF) 
! 
 HELP ME!  GUARDS!  HELP ME! 
 A 
 Please, will you listen to me? Will someone please listen to me? JUST LISTEN To ME! 
 Hamidou! Get Hamidou! Get the Kiyisl! 
 (crying out) Hop! Hop!  Hop!  Full moon.  Hop! Hop!  Hop! 
 Hop!  Hop!  Full Moon - take your pills! 
 Cigare? (pause, same tone, holds out his palm) Cigare? Cigare? 
 S'il Vous plait, Monsieur? S'il vous plait? 
 
 Will you listen to me? PLEASE LISTEN TO ME! 
 (pleading) Allah!  Allah!  Yok!  Yok!  Yok! Brack! 
 Hey American.  Fik!  Fick!  Come. Fik!  Fik! 
 You're an American? 
 Ah yes, America!  My name is Ahmet. I studied philosophy at Harvard for many many years. But actually Oxford is my real Alma  Mata - I've also studied in Vienna. Now I study here. 
 ...They put me here. They say I raped a little boy. I have been here very long time. They will never let me go. 
 They won't let YOU go either. 
 No, they'll never let you go. They tell you they let you go but you stay. You never go from here. 
 You see we all come from a factory. Sometimes the factory makes bad machines that don't work. They put them here. The bad machines don't know they're bad machines, but the people at the factory know. They know one of the machines that doesn't work... 
 (polite) I think we have spoken enough for today.  I say good night to you. 
 Head count!  Head count! 
 
 #1 Sixty two, sixty three, sixty four.... 
 #2 Seventy four, seventy five, seventy six.. .get back there, you! . . . seventy five, seventy six....) 
 Kabin on-yedi 
 SUSAN (OFF) Oh my God...! 
 
 Billy, what have they done to you...my God! 
 ...Billy, your family is fine. Senator Buckley just made a special plea on your behalf in the Senate. Newsday has written several big articles about you.  They've called you a pawn in the poppy game between Nixon and the Turks. The letters are coming in, Billy. People care.... 
 Billy - you'll just make yourself crazy. 
 Oh Billy, Billy, I wish I could make it better for you. Please don't...  don't... 
 Yes, Billy? 
 Oh Billy... Billy!  Don't give up. Please don't give up. You'll get out. I know you will! 
 Billy, your father gave me this for you.  There's pictures of your Mom and Dad...Rob...Peg... 
 And there's pictures in the back of your old Mr. Franklin.  Remember him... From the bank? 
 He's over in Greece now. He bought a ticket. 
 Visiting is over. 
 I'll give it to them for you. 
 You were right Billy don't count on them, you hear, don't count on anybody but yourself! 
 Let's go! 
 (quickly) If you stay you'll die Billy!  Get out of here. Get to Greece, you hear me?...Billy? 
 
 Good morning, my American friend! There will be trouble if you go this way. A good Turk always walks to the right. Left is communist. Right is good. You must go the other way... It's Good. 
 Why you go?  Why don't you walk the wheel with us? (suspiciously leaning forward, suddenly realizing the answer) The bad machine doesn't know he's a bad machine. You still don't believe it? You still don't believe you're a bad machine? 
 
 (shakes his head) To know oneself is to know God, my friend. The factory knows.  That's why they put you here. You'll see. You'll find out. Later on you'll know. 
 Hop!  Hop!  Take! 
 
 No do!  No do! 
 (in his broken English) I tell you I see 'gain... (into Turkish) I take you down to bath and your feet be big like...Breasts (a gesture) 
 First you make mistake with Ziat, now you make mistake with money. You're not a new Prisoner, Vilyum Hi-yes. 
 (shakes his head) You've been in prison too long, Vilyum Hi-yes. 
 You go crazy here Vilyum Hi-yes. Many people go crazy here. Best thing for crazy people is this... 
 HAMIDOU (OFF) Vilyum Hi-yes. You die here, Hi- yes. 
 Babba sikijam!  I fuck your mother, I fuck your sister... 
 ...I fuck your father, I fuck your brother... 
 ...And I fuck your grandmother and I fuck your pretty girlfriend... And I fuck you Hi-yes!) 
 VOICE (OFF) How about a shoe shine, friend? 
! 
 VOICE (OFF) Edirne to Uzun Kopru? 
 'What are you crazy? There's no train anymore to Uzun Kopru, it'd have to go through Greece. The border's closed. 
 CLERK (OFF) No more train. 
 You know where they are? 
 How far? 
 Sixty Lira? 
. 
 FORESTS - FIELDS. 
 
 (Greece (shakes his head) Very bad now. Maybe war. Those Greek pigs try to steal Cyprus again (pause)) How'd you lose your friends? 
 How come you speak Turkish so good? 
 You want to score some?  Cheap? 
 Two miles! Minefields over there. Do you know where this campground is or not? 
 No!  I'm not going any further! It'll wreck my car. 
 How much? 
 All over.  Turkish Army up there. It's against the law. They shoot us. (looks up in the mirror) You sure you looking for your friends, man? 
 (looks back, then ahead, suddenly brightening) Ah, look!  they probably know where the campers are 
 
 Hey officer, we're looking for the campground. Do you know where it is? 
 (curt) You're not supposed to be here 
 (indicated Billy) He's a tourist, what do you want, he says he's looking for friends at the campground. 
 Campground? (shrugs) Never heard of one. 
 Seen any Swedish foreigners in a camper-bus? 
 Noldu? 
 Seen any foreigners in a camper bus? 
. 
 Foreigners!  KAMPER.  VOLKSWAGEN 
 Is no Volkswagen, man! Something wrong with you? 
 This guy's fishy...I think he might be trying to get to Greece. 
 
 Huh? 
 
 I don't know, there's 
 He's got a gun! 
. 
 THEN: A BLAST 
 Minefield!  Minefield! Come back! Stop! 
 (NO SUBTITLE) 
. 
 Ti leei? (What is he saying?) 
 
