 
 One at a time. Mr. Miller? 
 Your Honor, since Rockwell Corp. began construction, the surrounding residential neighborhood has been enshrouded in a cloud of foul-smelling, germ-carrying, pestilent dust. My client is being forced to breathe known carcinogens daily! Other residents are coming forth on a daily basis to add their voices of outrage! 
 Your Honor, I submit there were no complaints until Counselor began knocking on doors, drumming up business. And the dust, which Counselor refers to, has appeared on only three occasions. Each time it has been examined and the results... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Limestone. Messy, but innocuous. 
 Innocuous? 
 Defined by Webster's as harmless. 
 I know what it means. Your Honor, imagine how the children in this neighborhood have been made to feel. The pounding of construction ringing in their ears as this skyscraper, a tribute to mankind's greed, grows daily, casting an ominous shadow over their lives, filling them with dread even as they are surrounded in a black, toxic fog, blocking out the sun while poisoning their lungs! And Counselor calls it harmless?! 
 Your Honor, Counselor is attempting to portray my client as a hideous manifestation of evil and corruption. But nothing could be further from the truth. Rockwell has generously contributed ten thousand dollars to this neighborhood's schools, clinics and youth centers! Granting a restraining order on the construction site will throw hundreds of Philadelphians out of work, and will lend validation to this contemptible and groundless nuisance suit, which speaks directly to the kind of greed and treachery that today is threatening the very fabric of our society. 
 Let's not go off the deep end, gentlemen. I thought we were talking about some dust. 
 ANDREW                      JOE ... plaintiff seeks to re-     ... whereas decedent had strain defendants from con-    pre-existing asthmatic tinued improper use of trade   condition and ride on name without...                Ultra Loop caused sub- sequent death... 
 You. 
 Right. (into phone) Miller. 
 Client of yours? 
 Funny. 
 JOE (CONT.) Excuse me..? Sir? Yo! 
 PHYSICIAN'S AID. 
 (slapping a thin PATIENT'S wrist) Gonna have to start looking for veins in your feet, sweetheart. 
 DR. GILLMAN Andy. Can you stop at my office on your way out? 
 Sure. 
 ... up to Tax, on fourteen, and get right back, I need you. 
 Just the dazzling paralegal I wanted to see. 
 (friendly) I know what that means, and the answer is no. I have a class tonight. Exploit someone else. And since you've asked ... 
 Solid work on the Rockwell situation, Andy. Top-notch. 
 Thanks, Kenneth. (to Anthea) Your exam! 
 Thank you. 98. I gotta go... 
 Ninety-eight?! Ninety-eight! 
 Conference call's up. They just started the roll call. Here's the settlement agreement, the red-lined copy's on your desk. Need me in there? 
 No. Great. Thanks, Shelby. (checking his watch) It's 6:30, go home. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Rach. 
 I'm late, I have to pick up Amy from her afterschool but I want to talk to you about that Hansen thing. 
 Catch me later, I'll be here. And tell Amy, I love her painting, it's on my wall. 
 ... Karen Hargreave, representing Lloyd Management Corporation? 
 Present. 
 Andrew Beckett, representing Saunders International? 
 Present. 
 Hello? 
 Hi, Mom. It's me. 
 Andy! This is a nice surprise. How are you, hon? 
 I'm fine. 
 What's Dr. Gillman say? 
 Hold on, Mom. (punching into the conference call) There's no way my client will go along with that. 
 Who's this? 
 Andrew Beckett. Hi, Karen. I'm sorry I interrupted... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Gillman says I'm fine. My blood work is excellent. T-cells are up. Just a sec ... (conference call) Yes, I think that would alleviate most of our concerns. (back to Mom) My platelets look good too. 
 Are you on one of those conference calls? I hate when you put me on hold. 
 Ah hah! Yes! (chewing a string bean) Rentworth v. Pennsylvania... court of appeals affirms jury award of punitive damages for wrongful interference with prospective economic relations... 
 Look at this fucking guy. He's an animal. 
 Walter. 
 Are we interrupting, Andy? 
 In a word, Bob... 
 Charles is right behind me. 
 I was just about to take a break. Good evening, Charles. 
 Andy? Could you step into my office for a sec? (deadpan) I feel like firing someone tonight. 
 We're gonna miss you around here, Bob... 
... 
 Andy's expressed a keen interest in the Kronos Inc. situation, Charles. Is that correct, Andy? 
 The fate of the participants interests me, yes sir. 
 It's good to be King, hey Charles? 
 Kings are out of fashion. I'd rather be thought of as a benevolent tyrant. (prompting Andrew) It's an anti-trust action. 
 It is, and it isn't, Charles. Macrosystem's new software copies all the best-known elements of Kronos' spreadsheet program. If they're allowed to sell it, Kronos will get undersold right out of business. For me, the legal principle, involved is copyright infringement. 
 Bearing in mind that Bill Wright, the chairman of MacroSystems, is a close, personal friend of mine... which side of this mess would you desire to be on, Andy? And don't allow my very tight, personal relationship with Bill to influence your answer in any way. 
 Sorry, Charles, but... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) I'd like to see Kronos win. 
 Why, Beckett? 
 Because they deserve to, Walter. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) If MacroSystems wins, an energetic, young company will be destroyed, five thousand Americans will be out of work. Moreover, the laws of copyright and anti-trust were enacted to prevent exactly the kind of bullshit Macrosystems is trying to pull. 
 Andy, do you know who reps Kronos Inc.? 
 Bailey, Brackman. 
 Get with the program, Andy. As of this evening, about 8:05 this evening, right after the soup course... Kronos Incorporated is represented by Wyant Wheeler Hellerman Tetlow and Brown. Or, more specifically, senior associate Andrew Beckett. 
 Yes! 
 You'll have to get right on it, Andy, we're up against the statute of limitations. 
 Tokyo on four, Bob. 
 Great. Excuse me, fellas. (picking up a phone, speaking Japanese) Connichiwa. Itsumo osewa ni nari mashita. Arigato gozaimasu. 
 Thanks, Walter. 
 What's that on your forehead, pal? 
 Whacked with a racquetball. (taking Wheeler's hand) I appreciate your faith in my abilities. 
 Faith, Andy, is the belief in something for which we have no evidence. It doesn't apply to this situation. (slapping his shoulder) Go home. I mean, get back to work. 
 (warmly, softly) Thanks, Charles. 
 (with a father's affection) No sweat, buddy. 
 (in a funny, kind of medieval way) It's good to be King. 
. 
 (O.S.) You want to apply the foundation as evenly as you can, Andy. You don't want to look like you've thrown it on with a spoon. 
 (O.S.) Uh huh. 
 Okay. You try. 
 Chandra? Don't you think this color's a little... orange for me? 
 Tahitian Bronze works best on lesions. 
 Think of it as the "I just back from Aruba" look. 
 I got it. 
 (giving the fax a quick scan) Thanks, Bruno. (to Alan and Chandra) I've been out of the office four days. I don't want them to think I've been to the beach. (searching for something) Okay. Check this out. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Hides everything, right? What do you think? 
 You know who you look like, Andy? That actor, in that movie. Not the one where he was autistic, the one where he dressed up like a lady on a soap opera... 
 Dustin Hoffman. 
 (horrified) Tootsie! 
 Right. 
 You want to try Light Egyptian? 
 CHANDRA (CONT.) What? 
 (clearly in pain) Excuse me a sec... 
 Just like my cousin Fredo. 
 You okay, Andy? 
 I think I need to go to the hospital. 
 Thanks, you guys. 
 Yeah. Thanks, guys. 
 Gillman's out of her office today. I told her to take a day off, and she did, can you believe it? Did you get someone to cover your class? 
 Don't worry about it. They took blood? A specimen? 
 Aren't you giving an exam? 
 I said, don't worry about it. 
 MIGUEL (CONT.) You got a fever, baby. 
 I almost didn't make it to the bathroom, Miguel. I almost lost control right in front of everybody. 
 (holding him) So what? It's nothing to be ashamed of. You have nothing to be ashamed of, okay? 
 Wait, here's my guy... Hey! 
 Mr. Beckett, I'm sorry... 
 About my blood work? 
 We're waiting... 
 ... meanwhile, I'd like to prepare you for a colonoscopy, so we can take a look inside. 
 Sounds delightful. 
 Why do you need to do this? 
 Who are you? 
 Who are you? Doctor... ? 
 This is my partner. We keep records of hospital visits. Nothing personal. 
 Dr. Klenstein. (to Andrew) It's not a pleasant procedure, but if the KS is causing the diarrhea, we ought to know right away. 
 It could be parasites, an infection... 
 A reaction to AZT... 
 That's possible, but. 
 He's not going through some painful procedure until we've cancelled out everything else. 
 I'm trying to help your "partner." You're not a member of his immediate family, I could have you removed from the ER. 
 (to the Intern) He's upset, he's sorry. 
 Don't apologize for me. 
 He's not sorry, okay, fine. (the diplomat) Why don't we see what we find out from the blood work? I'll work on getting a specimen, I'm sure hospital food could help in that direction. Maybe, by then, we'll hear from my doctor, and we'll go from there. Okay? Everybody happy? 
 Allright. I'll get on the lab about the blood work. 
 (to the Intern) I'm sorry. 
 That's the third time. I better call the office. (smiling at Niguel) Would you relax, please? 
 I am relaxed. 
 JOE (CONT.) "... has been injured through the fault of others, you may be entitled to legal remedy... 
 Shelby? It's me. Jamey's been beeping me, I... Okay, okay, calm down. Put Jamey on. 
 (frantic) Andy?! This is a disaster! We can't find your revisions on the Kronos complaint! 
 Slow down, Jamey, for Christ's sake! 
 I went down to Word Processing to pick up the corrected copy, but they said you haven't delivered the corrections. I told them you've been working on it at home, and... 
 I brought it in last night, around midnight. It's in my computer. 
 What did you file it under? 
 K-R-O-one. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Jamey, I don't have to mention, do I, that we're up against a statute of limitations on this complaint which runs out in... (checks his watch) Seventy-five minutes. 
 It's not here, Andy. 
 You go down to Word Processing and tell those motherfuckers they better come up with that complaint, now! Or they are fucking dead! You tell them that comes from me! 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Every problem has a solution. Every problem... has... a... solution. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Every problem has a solution... 
 Why are you getting dressed? 
 You're not going to like this. Please try to smile... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Thanks for leaving school, and coming here, and... (pulling back, putting on his jacket) I will be back. An hour, tops. 
 You're going to the office?! 
 You're not smiling. 
 You're leaving the hospital? You're going into the office looking like that? Are you insane? 
 One hour! 
 Drew! 
 I promise! 
 Didn't expect to see you... ? 
 I'm looking through the files but... 
 Call the messenger service, have someone standing by... (she reaches for the phone) Your phone. 
 Sure. 
 Think. You brought the discs in, you transferred... 
 I thought I was supposed to be covering for you. (blurts out) God, Andy, you look awful. 
 Fucking Word Processing lost my Kronos complaint. Which must be filed by fucking five o'clock! If it's late, there's no case... (the mantra) Every problem has a solution. 
 What can I do? 
 Get down to Word Processing. Help Jamey look. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) No. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) No, goddammit! 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Bob? Something's come up. With Kronos. I don't want to upset Charles, but... (letting down his guard) Oh, shit, Bob, the complaint's due in forty minutes and I can't find it. (suddenly) No, you don't have to come... (hanging up the phone) Great. Fucking great. 
 C'mon, Andy, you didn't lose anything... 
 SEIDMAN (CONT.) Jesus. 
 I don't know what to do, Bob. 
 You'll never find it in the dark. 
 SEIDMAN (CONT.) What in God's name... ? 
 Bob... 
 What's wrong with your face? 
 What's wrong with my face? You want to know what's wrong with my face? I've got a skin condition. Next question, Bob? No more questions? Fine. Now can you help me find the complaint? 
 Allright. Calm down. 
 Sorry... 
 What was the file name? 
 K-R-O-one. 
 Maybe you mistyped the name when you were saving it. We'll try combinations of those letters... 
 You're right, I probably just misfiled... 
 (O.S.) Andy? 
 KENTON (CONT.) Some sort of problem? 
 Yeah, Walter. Yeah. Some sort of major problem. 
 There she is, okay. You can relax now, Lisa. 
 Oh my god... a girl... oh my god... Lisa... oh my god... 
 JOE (CONT.) You load the film... ? No, on this side... or this side? Don't move the baby! 
 Give me the camera, Joe. 
 Thanks, hon. Oh my god... 
 JOE (CONT.) Oh my god... oh my god, look at her... oh my god... 
 Go to Famous Fourth Street and buy a pound of Nova. No! She likes Scotch salmon better. Ah heck, get a pound of both! Get a dozen onion rolls. Get some bagels. Get a dozen. Get a bottle of champagne. Dom Peringon... A hundred bucks a bottle?! Better get a good California... 
 JOE (CONT.) (to the PATIENT) Give me a call. (into the phone) Get everything over here as soon as you can, she's starved. No, not the baby! Lisa! ... Iris, listen: any calls I should know about? ... Uh huh... Uh huh... Beckett? Who's Andrew Beckett? 
 JOE (OS) How big was this hole you fell into? 
 MRS. FINLEY Right. 
 Why didn't you cross at the crosswalk? 
 MRS. FINLEY Why should I? 
 Mr. Beckett? 
 IRIS (CONT.) In here. 
 Thank you. 
 (to the FEMALE CLIENT) Explain this to me like I'm a six year old, okay? The entire street is clear except for one small area under construction, with a huge hole that is clearly marked and blocked off, and you decide you must cross the street at this spot. You fall into the hole and you want to sue the city for negligence? ... 
 MRS. FINLEY Yeah. Do I have a case? 
 Of course you have a case! Now, I want you to go with my assistant, Iris, and fill out some forms. She'll tell you about our fee arrangement. (as they're leaving) Mrs. Finley? Any back pain since the accident? Dizziness? Nightmares? 
 MRS. FINLEY Now that you mention it... 
 Tell Iris all about it. (leading her out) Take good care of Mrs. Finley, Iris. (to Andrew) Beckett, come in. 
 JOE (CONT.) Jesus Christ, what happened to you? 
 I have AIDS. 
 Whoa-oh! (beat) Sorry, I... 
 It's okay. Can I sit down? 
 Uh, yeah. 
 JOE (CONT.) Go ahead. 
 (the cigars) New baby? 
 One week old. 
 Congratulations. 
 Little baby girl. 
 Kids are great. 
 Thanks, Beckett. I'm real excited about it. (glances at his watch) What can I do for you? 
 I was fired by Wyant Wheeler. I plan to bring a wrongful termination suit against Charles Wheeler and his partners. 
 You want to sue Wyant Wheeler Hellerman Tetlow and Brown? 
 Correct. I'm seeking representation. 
 Continue. 
 I misplaced an important complaint. That's their story. Want to hear mine? 
 How many lawyers did you go to, before you called me? 
 Nine. 
 Continue. 
 I was diagnosed with AIDS eight months ago. During a bout of pneumonia. I recovered quickly and was back at work in ten days. Since I was doing so well on the AZT, we decided against telling anyone about it. 
 We? 
 My lover and I. 
 Your... lover? 
 Miguel Alvarez. We've lived together for nine years. 
 Continue. 
 I dove back into work, everything was fine. Until the lesions started... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) That can happen, it's called AIDS dementia when it gets into your brain. But miraculously, a copy of the complaint was located at the last minute, and we got it to court on time... 
 Hell, they are staring. What's that shit on your face? 
 Makeup. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) The partners were waiting for me in the main conference room. 
 Sit down, Andy. 
 WHEELER (CONT.) Thanks for coming in. 
 Of course. 
 Andy. Before we begin, I'd just like to say: everyone in this room is your friend. 
 You're in trouble. 
 I know that, Charles. 
 More than your friend. Family. 
 Big trouble. 
 Charles, I must apologize again, for the Kronos mishap. (smiling) It was a scary few minutes around here. Wow. But thank God, the complaint was found. And no damage was done. 
 This time. What about next time? 
 There won't be a next time, I guarantee it. 
 Andy. It seems that something has come over you, lately: A kind of... stupor, a fogginess, a lack of focus... Earth to Andy. Anybody home? 
 Helloooo... 
 That's right, Andy. The last four, five months you've seemed really out of it... 
 At least... different, somehow. 
 (keeping it positive) Perhaps... you're right. I've certainly been busy. With the Kronos complaint, a preliminary injunction hearing and the Saunders trial all falling at the same time... 
 Some people think you have an attitude problem, Beckett. 
 Really? Who thinks that, sir? 
 I do. 
 I had no idea there was a concern in that area. Hey: (a smile) I'll get to work on it right away. 
 We've been talking it over, Andy. Your future that is... We feel that, because we respect you so much, we have to be honest with you. 
 Honesty is always best. 
 Do you really think so, Andy? 
 Yes, Bob, I do. (to the group) Excuse me? Am I being fired? 
 Let's put it this way, Andy: your place in the future of this firm is no longer secure. 
 In a word, yes. 
 We don't think it's fair to keep you here, where your future is limited. But we wish you luck, Andy, all the luck in the world. 
 WHEELER (CONT.) And I hate to rush you out of here, but... 
 But he's got lots of other people's lives to ruin... 
 ... we've got a committee meeting. 
 Excuse me, Charles. With all due respect... this is... preposterous! It doesn't make any sense, it sounds as if we're talking about someone else. Pardon the lack of humility, but I've had the distinct impression I was kind of... one of the rising stars around here. And I feel that wasn't just my imagination. And I also think I deserve to know what's really going on here, Charles. 
 Oh, you're right, Beckett, you don't have an attitude problem. 
 Take it easy, Walter. 
 If you'd lost confidence in me, why did you give me the Kronos suit? 
 I hoped the challenge would improve your performance. You could say it was a carrot. 
 A carrot?! 
 I buy that. 
 As in, the vegetable? 
 (suddenly emotional) Andy, you nearly blew the case, for God's sake! That alone is inexcusable. It would have been catastrophic for us. Put yourself in our shoes, Andy. There's no coming back from an error like that, regardless of who you are! (softer) I'm sorry, Andy. 
 Uh huh... Okay... I see... 
 Good luck, Andy. 
 Who are you? 
 I'm here to escort you to your office so you can organize your belongings. 
 Okay. Explain to me like I'm a two year old, because there's an element to this I can't get through my thick head: Didn't you have an obligation to inform your employer you had this dreaded, deadly, infectious disease? 
 The law says people with disabilities cannot be terminated, so long as they can perform the duties required by their position... 
 Okay, okay... They discover you have this horrible, disgusting, terminal illness, and they panic, for any number of perfectly valid reasons. They're frightened for themselves, their families... Maybe it's the homo angle. Maybe they don't want to rub elbows with someone who's just popped out of the closet with a terminal case of acne. And how do they explain your status to the client for Chrissake? 
 Joe, from the day I arrived to the day they fired me, I performed consistently, thoroughly and with absolute excellence. And if they hadn't fired me, that's what I'd be doing today. 
 Okay... They want you out. It's against the law to fire you for having AIDS, so they make you look like a fuck up. Which leads us to the mysterious, lost file. 
 They sabotaged me. 
 I knew you were going to say that. I don't buy it, and I don't see a case. 
 Look. I know I have a case. If you don't want to take it for personal reasons... 
 Correct. I don't. 
 Thanks for your time. 
 Beckett? I'm sorry about... what's happened to you. It's a fucking kick in the head. 
 (a smile) Don't send flowers, Joe. I'm not dead yet. 
 (DAY) ... 
 (still uncomfortable, as Andrew's leaving) Have a nice day. 
 Find out if Armbruster can see me this afternoon. 
 (still staring) What the hell's wrong with him? 
 I'm not worried. What are you doing? 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Checking your blood pressure, relax. 
 I didn't have contact. What do you consider "contact?" We were sitting in the same room, three, four feet... What if you shake hands? Wait. I know the answer. Only sex, or sharing needles. I know that. We didn't shake hands, anyway. 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER The HIV virus can only be transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, namely blood and semen. 
 Right. 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Leave that. 
 Yeah, but Doc, isn't it true they keep finding out new things about this disease? So you tell me, today, there's no danger, and I go home, and I hold my baby, and six months from now I hear on the news: "whoops! We were wrong.' You can carry it on your clothes, your skin, and now I've got to worry about my kid. What are you doing? 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER We're going to draw blood. 
 Why are we going to do that? 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Joe. I don't care a whit about your private life. 
 You want to give me an AIDS test?! 
 JOE (CONT.) The guy sat in my office! You can't get AIDS that way, right? 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Right. 
 It doesn't travel through the air, by breathing, or touching, right? 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Not by touching, or shaking hands, or hugging, using the same toilet... Even kissing someone with AIDS is safe. But it there's something in your past you're worried about... 
 Thanks, Doc, but I don't need an AIDS test. Are you crazy? But thanks for the information. Really. 
 JOE (CONT.) In my past? 
 IV drug use. 
 Get real. 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Unprotected sex with a prostitute. 
 (thinking it over) Uh.... No. Not really. 
 DR. ARMBRUSTER Or unprotected sex with someone you didn't know very well, any time during the last twelve years. 
 A. 
 Not especially. 
 How many gays do you know? 
 How many do you know? 
 Lots. 
 Who? 
 Karen Berman. Aunt Teresa. My cousin Tommy who lives in Rochester. Eddie Meyers from the office. Joe Cantwell, he's one of the partners. His lover, Greg. Stanley, the guy who's putting in our kitchen cabinets. 
 Your Aunt Teresa is gay? That beautiful, sensuous woman is a... lesbian? 
 Duh... 
 Since when? 
 Probably since she was born. 
 Allright. I admit it: I'm prejudiced. I don't want to work with a homosexual. You got me. 
 Okay, Joe... 
 I mean, two guys, doing the horizontal thing? I don't get it. Don't they get confused? "Is that mine? I thought it was yours." Hey, call me old fashioned, call me conservative... I think maybe you have to be a man to get just how nauseating the whole basic idea really is. 
 Fine, Joe. 
 And the way they work out, pumping up, so they can be macho and faggot at the same time... I can't stand that shit. Now I'm being totally honest with you. 
 That's perfectly clear. 
 Would you take a client if you were constantly thinking: "I hope this guy doesn't touch me. I don't even want him to breathe on me?" 
 (under his breath) Shit... 
 Thank you. 
 I'm fine, thanks. 
 (pleasantly) No. But would it make you more comfortable? 
 Oh, Beckett. How's it goin'? 
 Fine. 
 Who'd you get? 
 What? 
 Find a lawyer? 
 I'm a lawyer. How's your baby? 
 Huh? Oh. Great. She's great. 
 What's her name? 
 Rayisha. 
 Rayisha. Very nice. 
 How did they find out? 
 (a second, then:) One of the partners spotted a lesion on my forehead. 
 Uh huh... 
 JOE (CONT.) How do you get from one lawyer spotting a lesion, which could have been a bruise, to the partners deducing you had AIDS and basing a decision to terminate you on that conclusion? 
 Good point. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) The partner who spotted the lesion, Walter Kenton, used to work for Benton, Myers, in D.C. There's a paralegal there, Maria Torres. She's had lesions on and off for three years. She says it was common knowledge around the office that her lesions were caused by AIDS. 
 They didn't fire her? 
 No. They didn't fire her. 
 So Kenton connected the... lesion, and whatever suspicions he had about your personal life... to this woman, Maria... and blew the whistle on you. Suddenly you're losing files, and it's time to let you go. But, up to this point, you've been their Golden Boy, their rising star... Their behavior is... inconsistent. 
 Thank you. 
 There is no relevant precedent. 
 (not looking up) Arline decision. Supreme Court. 
 Arline? 
 "The Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibits discrimination..." 
 ANDREW (VO) "Subsequent decisions have held that AIDS is protected as a handicap under law, not only because of the physical limitations it imposes..." 
 JOE (VO) "This is the essence of discrimination: formulating opinions about others not based on their individual merits but, rather, on their membership in a group with assumed characteristics... 
 (spotting him) Julius! 
 Dr. J.! 
. J. Gentlemen... Ladies... 
 How's it goin', Doctor?/This is an honor!/etc ... 
 Excuse me. Charles Wheeler? 
 JOE (CONT.) Summons. For you. 
. J. Say. What's up, Chuck? 
... 
 ... interview every employee, support staff, associates, partners. Did any of them know Andy was sick? How did they know? Did he tell them? Did they notice something was wrong with his appearance? None of this information got to the managing partners. We know that. Make sure everyone else does too... And Beckett: I want to know everything about his personal life. Did he frequent those pathetic bars on Camac Street? 
 Jesus. 
 (ignoring Seidman) What about other homosexual facilities, whatever they are? 
 Charles... 
 What deviant groups or organizations did he secretly belong to? (with irritation) What is it, Bob?! 
 Let's settle with Andy and put this whole tragic mess behind us. 
 Andrew brought AIDS into our offices, into our men's room. He brought AIDS to our annual goddamn family picnic. 
 We ought to be suing him. 
 For Christ's sake, where's your compassion? 
 Compassion? Andy sucks cocks, Bob. He takes it up the ass. He's a pervert. 
 That's kind of... extreme, Walt. Andy's private life is none of our business. 
 Bob. You're trying my patience. Andrew Beckett is making his private life our business. We gave him Kronos. Did he say, "I'm sick. I might not be able to see this through?" 
 He was doing a great job. 
 Bob. I must ask you to shut the fuck up. Did Andrew Beckett say "I might not be able to serve our clients to the best of my ability?" He said nothing. And now, Andrew Beckett proposes to haul me into a court of law, to sling accusations at me, in full view of the entire, Philadelphia, judicial establishment. My God. 
 Beckett doesn't want to go to court, he's hoping for a quick tasty settlement. 
 A jury might decide that Andy has a case. 
 Wait a minute. The man was fired for incompetence, not because he has AIDS. You didn't know he was sick, did you, Bob? 
 Holy Shit. Did you, Bob? 
 (after a moment) No. Not really. 
 Charles Fucking Wyant Wheeler?! 
 Morning, Filko. 
 Hey, it's the local chapter of the ACLU! 
 You're a Republican, Joe! You belong to the NRA! 
 How many toilet stalls are there in the women's restroom on this floor, Filko? 
 How many... what?! 
 Two. How many toilet stalls are there in the men's room? Two, plus four urinals. How many wheelchair accessible toilets in either of those restrooms? Zero. In this entire building? Zero. Get the picture, Filko? Discrimination! You find yourself a female, paraplegic, legal assistant who is qualified to work here, except she can't take a leak... and you've got yourself a sex discrimination suit and a handicapped discrimination suit. Not handicapped. What do you call someone who can't use a normal restroom? "Gastro-intestinally challenged!" 
 Wyant Wheeler's asking for a postponement on the prelim, Joe. 
 Low-life, sleazy scumbags. Of course they want a postponement, I've got a client with a terminal disease. They're going to drag their heels every step of the way, the rotten bastards. (tapping on the window, to the 
) Is that spelled right? 
 JOE (VO) Hey, Beckett. This is Miller. 
 WOMAN'S VOICE I can heal myself. 
 I can heal myself. 
 WOMAN'S VOICE I can heal myself. 
 I can heal myself. 
 I was coming out of the gym today, and I ran into Jimmy. Do you know what he asked me? "What's it like knowing your boyfriend's going to die?" 
 Jerk... What did you say? 
 I said, "Everyone's going to die, Jimmy. But Drew's not going to die of AIDS. There's a cure around the corner, and he plans to be around to take advantage of it." 
 You got that right, Mikey... (beat) You still believe that, don't you? 
 Yes. I think it will be a simple solution. They'll put it in a syringe, inject it into your bloodstream. It'll neutralize the virus. It'll revitalize the immune system, and people with AIDS will become healthy again. 
 (DAY) ... 
 You're looking better, Andy. How do you feel? 
 Fine, thanks, Charles. 
 Charles, Walter... 
 Congratulations on the new grandson. 
 Thank you. We're very happy. 
 Attorney for the plaintiff? 
 Joseph Miller, Your Honor. Macready and Shilts Legal Services. 
 I've seen your television commercials. "If you or anyone you know has been injured through the fault of others... It should say, "through the negligence of others." 
 I'll take that under consideration, Your Honor. 
 On behalf of the defendants? 
 Belinda Conine. Of Petersen, Lehigh, Monroe and Smith. 
 And Jerome Green. 
 Dexter Smith. 
 Ralph Petersen. 
 (to Joe) You're outnumbered four to one. (to the others) Whom do I address? I can't talk to four lawyers at once. 
 I'm chief litigator, Your Honor. 
 Fine. I've asked the litigants to be present for this conference, in the hope we can settle this matter today, among ourselves... There is nothing I hate more, than to see lawyers suing each other. If you look at the opinion polls, when Mr. John Q. Citizen is asked to rank professions according to the respect he holds for them... Where are the lawyers? Somewhere below personal fitness trainers and only slightly above child pornographers. If we keep suing each other, if we fail to settle the smallest difference among ourselves with mutual respect, if we continue to scrap like bucks in heat, we'll fall lower on that list. And when people lose respect for lawyers, they lose respect for the law. And when this society loses all respect for the law, we'll be murdered in our beds, my friends, our cherished institutions will be burned to the ground and our children and our grandchildren will live like savages. 
 If it please Your Honor, we hope to settle this matter. 
 By God you will settle it! If you force this case to trial, young man, you'll regret it for the rest of your natural-born days... Now, Joseph. What would you require to settle this matter today? 
 Reinstatement at full salary. Back pay covering the period of unemployment and... 
 Hold it, Joe. (to Wheeler) He wants to come back to work, Chuck. 
 That's impossible, Your Honor. 
 That's impossible, Joe. 
 If it please Your Honor, we're prepared to offer a cash settlement of twenty-five thousand dollars. 
 Your generosity overwhelms me, Belinda, considering my client was earning over a hundred thou when he was terminated almost six months ago. 
 Give me a break, Joe. Let's cut through these false attitudes. Give them a figure. How much do you want? 
 I want to go back to work, Your Honor. 
 You're here at my indulgence, young man. I'm waiting for a figure, Joe. 
 Based on what my client would have earned over the next three years, including benefits and projected raises, and the extraordinary cost of medical care for someone with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome... We would settle today for the very fair amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars. 
 Very good, Joe. Now, Belinda, I've got a figure over here, of one million, five. I... 
 One more thing, Your Honor... 
 (jumping in) Any settlement agreement must include, and this is critical, a letter of exoneration, making clear my termination had nothing to do with the quality of my work. 
 Your Honor, Mr. Beckett's incompetence nearly sabotaged a 350 million dollar suit. 
 I was the one who was sabotaged. 
 We have complaints about Mr. Beckett's lack of preparation, his disorganization, his arrogant, defensive attitude... The list goes on. 
 We have letters. 
 Why haven't you produced these letters? 
 Take it easy. (to Wheeler) What's the big deal, Chuck? The boy wants a letter, to show to his mother, for her to keep after he's gone. Why are you being hard- assed about this? 
 I wish I could exonerate you, Andy. But I'd have to lie to do it. 
 (very calm) You can save it for the jury, Charles. I want to hear you say, under oath, in front of a judge and a jury, I'm a bad lawyer. (rises) Gentlemen. (to Belinda) Counselor. 
 Don't do this, Andy. 
 Whoa, whoa... (to Andrew) What do you expect them to say, you're Alan Dershowitz? 
 A trial takes time, Beckett. Do you know what I'm saying? 
 I think I catch your subtle drift, Walter. 
 You'll be sorry, Beckett. 
 Andy, you don't want this. 
 With all due respect, Your Honor, my client chooses to pursue his constitutionally guaranteed right to a trial. 
 This is the house where I grew up. In Downington, Pennsylvania. (pointing to the ground) See this... ? 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Those are my cute little hand prints. And my brother's and my sister's. 
 MIGUEL'S VOICE 
 (BEHIND CAMERA) And today is... ? 
 Today is my parents' fortieth wedding anniversary. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) This is the front door. I caught a finger in this door, once... (holds it up) This one. Broke it. (stepping inside) This is the hallway, my mother calls it a foyer... 
 Uncle Andrew! 
 (to CAMERA) This is my niece, Alexis. Say hello, Alexis. 
 Mommy's pregnant again. 
 (doing Walter Cronkite) You heard it here first, folks. News as it happens. 
 Hello, darlin'. 
 This is my sister, Jill, the most fertile woman on the planet. She's married to Reverend Jim. 
 You feel thin. (over Andrew's shoulder) Hello, Miguel. 
 Hey, Jill. Nice to see you, sweetheart. 
 (hugging Miguel) Handsome devil. (referring to Andrew) Is he eating? 
 We don't discuss his weight. (to Andrew, behind CAMERA) Do we? 
 ANDREW (OS) And what will we find in... da duh da duh da duh... the KITCHEN! 
 There he is! Hi, Andrew! Don't point that thing at me! etc... 
 Hi, Mom. How do you feel on your fortieth anniversary? 
 Ancient. How do you think I feel? Put that thing down and give me a hug. (he keeps it pointed at her) Andrew, stop! ... He still doesn't listen. 
 Where's Dad? 
 He's out in his shed showing your uncle his new riding mower. 
 Things might be said, at the trial, that... are not going to be easy for you to hear. Things about me, about my private life. And I want to make sure it's okay with everybody. 
 I appreciate you asking, Andy, but really, it's your call. 
 What do you think, Jill? 
 To be honest, I'm worried about Mommy and Daddy. They've had to go through so much already... And, we all know... (very difficult to say) There's going to be even worse things to deal with, eventually. I wonder if it's fair to put them through this. 
 Mom? 
 All I know is, you got through your diagnosis fine, like a trooper. But when they fired you... you were so devastated, Andy... I don't expect any of my kids to sit in the back of the bus. Fight for your rights. 
 Thanks, Mom... Dad? 
 Supposedly, the Lord doesn't give you more trouble than you can handle. But I'm having a hard time believing that these days. 
 BUD (CONT.) Andy, the way you've faced this whole thing, you and Miguel, with so much courage... your mother and I have been so very impressed... 
 BUD (CONT.) I can't imagine there is anything, that anyone could say, that would make us feel less proud of you. 
 (full of emotion) Thanks, Dad. I love you guys. How about you, Randy? 
 Hey. You're my kid brother, Andy. That's the bottom line. I mean, what are those bastards going to say? You're gay? Shit, I knew that when you were five years old. 
 Wait a minute... (to Andrew) You're gay? 
 What about you, Andy? You're not a militant type. You've always been so private. 
 I guess... I don't have time for that any more. 
 Jim? Will you lead us in a prayer? 
 Dear Lord. Sometimes it is difficult to remember to be grateful... 
 Amen. 
 "After all the days of Spring have flown..." 
 MATT (OS) Hey, Miguel, can you imagine any two people being together for forty years? 
 Yes. I can. 
 JOE (CONT.) You are presented with a simple fact: Andrew Beckett was fired. You will hear two explanations for why he was fired. Ours. And theirs... 
 JOE (CONT.) It's up to you, to sift through layer and layer of truth, and determine for yourselves the version that sounds the most true. 
 JOE (CONT.) There are certain points in our version, that I must prove to you... Point number one: Andrew Beckett was... is a brilliant lawyer. A great lawyer. Point number two. Andrew Beckett, afflicted with a debilitating disease, made the legal, understandable, personal choice to keep the fact of his illness to himself... Point number three: His employers discovered his illness. And ladies and gentlemen, the illness I'm referring to, is 
... 
 JOE (CONT.) Point number four. They panicked. And, in their panic, they did what most of us would like to do with AIDS... Get it, and the people who have it, as far away from us as possible. 
 JOE (CONT.) The behavior of Andrew Beckett's employers may seem reasonable to you. It does to me. After all, AIDS is a deadly, incurable, disease... 
 JOE (CONT.) But however you come to judge the behavior of Charles Wheeler and his partners in moral, ethical, human terms... When they fired Andrew Beckett because he had AIDS, they broke the law. 
 JOE (CONT.) And, when lawyers break the law, when this society loses respect for the law, when that day comes, our cherished institutions will be burned to the ground, and our children and grandchildren will live like savages. 
 Fact. Andrew Beckett performed at a consistently mediocre level. Fact. He made a grievous error on a multi-million dollar lawsuit... Fact. He claims he is the victim of lies and deceit. Fact. Andrew Beckett lied to his employers, going to great efforts to conceal his disease from them. Fact. He was successful in his duplicity. The partners at Wyant Wheeler did not know Andrew Beckett had AIDS when they fired him... 
 BELINDA (CONT.) Fact. AIDS is a tragedy... 
 BELINDA (CONT.) Fact. Andrew Beckett is dying. 
 BELINDA (CONT.) Fact. Andrew Beckett is angry. Because his "lifestyle," his reckless behavior, has cut short his life... And in his anger, his rage, he's lashing out. And he wants someone to pay. 
 Andrew Beckett represented your company in a lawsuit in 1990, is that correct? 
 Wyant Wheeler represented us. 
 But, Andrew Beckett was in charge of litigation for the suit. 
 That's correct. 
 Were you pleased with his work? 
 We were satisfied. 
 Were you satisfied, or were you pleased? 
 We were satisfied. 
 Mr. Laird, when I approached you about being a witness at this trial, and you agreed, you gave sworn testimony in a deposition. Is that correct? 
 That's correct. 
 According to the deposition, you said you were "thrilled, impressed, overwhelmed" by the quality of Andrew Beckett's work. Do you remember saying that? 
 I may have said something like that. But that's not how I feel at this moment. 
 Okay, Mr. Laird. Explain this to me like I'm a four year old: Did Andrew Beckett win your lawsuit for you or not? 
 We won. 
 Did that thrill, impress and overwhelm you? 
 It satisfied me. 
 It's a long way between being overwhelmed and being satisfied. A cheeseburger may be satisfying whereas caviar and champagne and roast duck and baked Alaska for dessert might be considered overwhelming. Do you agree? 
 I might. 
 Five months ago you characterized Andrew Beckett as caviar and now you're calling him a cheeseburger. Your standards have shifted a great deal, and I'd like to know why you've changed your mind. 
 Since that time I've devoted more thought to the subject, and that's how I feel now. 
 Partner Robert Seidman was the supervising attorney for your lawsuit? 
 MR. LAIRD That's right. 
 Does the supervising attorney guide the litigating attorney during the trial? 
 MR. LAIRD Often, he does. 
 As far as you know, in the handling of your lawsuit, Andrew Beckett was simply following orders. 
 That's a fair assessment of the situation. 
 I'm not political. I just want compensation for being fired. 
 But you are gay, aren't you? 
 "I don't see how that's any of your business... (a smile) But yes, I am." 
 "Do you believe that homosexuals deserve special treatment?" 
 Hell, no! 
 "This case is sending a cold chill through the legal community. One of Wyant Wheeler's key clients, the Grace Foster Foundation, which supports several AIDS charities, has taken its business to another firm until this matter is resolved..." 
 (chuckles) Hey, Joe. (a wink to the COP) You're not starting to get a little... light on your feet here on us, are you? 
 Yeah, Filko. I am. (stepping toward Filko) I'm on the prowl, Filko. I need a man. Not just any man. I need a hunk. A hunk like you. How about it, Filko? Want to play sailor? This time, I'll be first mate and you can be Columbus. 
 Chill out, Joe. 
 (angry) Those people make me sick, Filko! But a law's been broken, okay? The law. Remember the law? 
 "This is a world full of war, famine, poverty, homelessness... and people make a fuss because two men or two women want to live together, or make love. Seems kind of silly, doesn't it?" 
 And Walter Kenton knew the lesions on your face and arms were caused by AIDS? 
 Definitely. People were going around, whispering things. I figured I didn't have anything to lose, so I told all the partners. 
 How did Walter Kenton treat you, after you told him you had AIDS? 
 Every time he came into contact with me, he'd get this look on his face. I called it, the "Oh God" expression. As in "Oh God, here comes that woman with 
." 
 Ms. Torres? Have your employers fired you for having AIDS? 
 No. When I need time off, for medical reasons, we work it out. 
 Thank you. No more questions. 
 Miss Torres. How did you contract the AIDS virus? 
 During a transfusion. I lost a lot of blood giving birth to my second child. 
 In other words, in your case you happen to be an innocent victim of the AIDS tragedy. 
 Look. I'm no different from everyone else who has this disease: I'm not guilty, I'm not innocent. I'm just trying to survive. 
 Beyond noticing the marks on his face, were there other things about his appearance that made you suspect he had 
? 
 He was losing weight. He looked kind of tired sometimes. But he was working so hard... Still, I felt something was wrong. (looking at Wheeler) And I can't believe they're saying they didn't notice anything. 
 Objection. 
 Just answer the question. 
 Sorry. 
 Ms. Burton. You're black. 
 Is that a question? 
 No. Have you ever felt discriminated against, at Wyant Wheeler? 
 Yes. 
 In what way? 
 Well... One time, Mr. Wheeler's secretary, Lydia, told me Mr. Wheeler had a problem with my earrings. 
 Your earrings? 
 Apparently, Mr. Wheeler felt they were too... "ethnic" is the word she used. She said he would like it if I wore something smaller, less garish, and... more "American." 
 What did you say? 
 I said my earrings are American. They're African-American. 
 Thank you. No more questions. 
 Miss Burton? Do you still work at Wyant Wheeler? 
 Yes. 
 Were you recently promoted? 
 Yes. I'm now in charge of the paralegal department. 
 Thank you. 
 How's the trial going? It's a great case. 
 Good school. What year? 
 Second. 
 Great. 
 Would you like to have a drink with me? I just finished a game, I could use a beer. (a smile) I don't pick up people in drug stores every day. 
 Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa... do you think... ? You think I'm... (low) ... gay? 
 Aren't you? 
 What's the matter with you? Do I look gay to you? 
 Do I look gay to you? Relax. 
 Relax? I ought to kick your faggoty little ass for you! 
 Take it as a compliment. Geesh. 
 Don't you know this is exactly the kind of bullshit that makes people hate you guys? 
 Fuck you! You want to kick my ass? You want to try? (walking away) Asshole. 
 You're the asshole, buddy. 
 (going out) Get a life. 
 But what was it?! What was this guy thinking... ?! 
 Don't know, Joe. 
 Is there some kind of expression I've picked up from Beckett?! Some kind of fairy attitude I've unconsciously adopted?! Am I walking different?! Some kind of vocal thing?! Have I picked up some kind of homo vibe?! 
 Have you changed your aftershave? 
 Very funny. I had a box of Pampers under my arm for Chrissake! 
 Joe? 
 (sleepy) Yeah... ? 
 Two men making love... ? Now tell me again... why is that disgusting? 
 (a tired sigh) Lisa, c'mon. One guy sticking his dick in another guy's mouth? It's disgusting. 
 Okay, so... help me with this one, Joe... Is it disgusting for someone to put his dick into someone's mouth? Or, is it disgusting for someone to take a dick into their mouth? 
 (after a beat) Great, Lisa. Thank you. 
 JOE (VO) "But, ultimately, the complaint was found, wasn't it? 
 Yes. We found a copy. It been incorrectly filed... 
 JAMEY (CONT.) We got it to court on time. 
 Has a file ever disappeared like that before? Vanished into thin air, all of a sudden, only to reappear in the nick of time? 
 I've never known that to happen before. No. 
 (fires this question) Did you have something to do with this file being lost accidentally-on-purpose? 
 Objection! 
 I'll rephrase. (to Jamey) Did you have anything to do with this file being... misplaced? 
 Absolutely not. 
 Are you a homosexual? 
 What?! 
 C'mon, Mr. Collins. Are you homosexual? You know, gay? 
 Hold it, hold it! 
 Objection! Where has this come from?! Suddenly Counsel is attacking his own witness. Mr. Collins' sexual orientation has absolutely no relevance to this case. 
 I said, HOLD IT! (the courtroom QUIETS) Mr. Miller. Could you kindly share with me exactly what's going on in your brain, because I don't have a clue at the moment. 
 Your Honor, everyone in this courtroom is thinking about sexual preference, sexual orientation, whatever you want to call it. They're looking at me, and wondering about it... (looking at Andrew) They're looking at Mr. Beckett, and wondering about it. They're looking at Mr. Wheeler and wondering about it. They might even be looking at you and wondering about it. So, let's get it out in the open. Let's talk about what this case is really about: the general public's hatred... our loathing, our fear of homosexuals. 
 (to himself) Very good. 
 In this courtroom, Mr. Miller, justice is blind. To matters of race, creed, color, religion. And sexual orientation. 
 With all due respect, Your Honor... We don't live in this courtroom, do we? 
 No. We don't... However, as regards this witness, I'm going to sustain the defense's objection. 
 No, sir. I do not. 
 I know. 
 And how many weeks at a time would you be out to sea, without stopping at port? 
 Anywhere from two weeks, to several months. 
 Any women on board? 
 Not when I was in the Navy. 
 So during those long voyages, months at a time, out to sea, no women in sight, a hundred, hardworking, robust, young men, in the prime of their life, at the peak of their natural appetites, desires, their god- given, hormonal instincts... Anything going on? 
 Going on... like...? 
 Like... two sailors playing hide the salami. 
 Objection! 
 Mr. Miller! 
 (can't resist) We had one guy like that. 
 You haven't ruled on my objection, Your Honor. 
 Let's continue. 
 (to Kenton) You had one guy "like that?" 
 Yeah. But we took care of him. 
 How did you do that? 
 We stuck his head in the latrine, after ten of us had used it. 
 You taught him a lesson. 
 Yes, we did. 
 Like firing Andrew Beckett taught him a lesson? 
 Objection! 
 I'll withdraw. (moving on quickly) You were aware, when you worked with Maria Torres, that she had AIDS, correct? 
 She didn't try to conceal it. 
 So you are aware of the difference between a lesion and a bruise, is that correct? 
 I know the difference. That doesn't mean I'm always able to recognize the difference. 
 But didn't you avoid contact with Ms. Torres, after you found out she had AIDS? She says you acted repulsed by her and you avoided her, is that correct? 
 I felt, and still feel, nothing but the deepest sympathy and compassion for people like Maria, who have contracted this terrible disease through no fault of their own. 
 (shouting over MUSIC) Drew! Are you ready? If we start at eight, we'll be done by twelve. 
 It's not going through. 
 (focused on his work) We'll have to flush it again. 
 Hold still. Shit. (trying again) The goddamn vein's clotted. We have to go the goddamn hospital, so they can change the goddamn catheter. 
 I have too much work to do. Skip the treatment. 
 We're not skipping this treatment. 
 I said, skip it, Michael. It's my treatment. 
 Fuck you. 
 Fuck you. This shit's probably not doing me any good anyway. 
 That shit's saving your life, you asshole! 
 What's wrong with you? 
 Close the law book. 
 I'm not going to close the-- 
 CLOSE THE FUCKING LAW BOOK! 
 ALLRIGHT IT'S CLOSED! (beat) Jesus! 
 The least you can do is look at me, while I'm sticking this shit into your arm. Forget the fucking case, one hour a day, and give me a little of your time. 
 (very quiet) You don't think there's much time left, do you? 
 That's not what I said. 
 You're scared. You think we're near the end. 
 No. 
 Maybe I should start making plans, is that what you think? Start planning my memorial service? "Begin to prepare for the inevitable." 
 (low) Maybe you should think about it. 
 What's that mean?! 
 (very difficult) Maybe you should think about it. 
 A. 
 I'm not going to die. 
 That's right. We're on the Positive Plan. You don't have a Fatal Disease, you have Manageable Illness. 
 You want me to give up? Let this thing turn us into victims? 
 Then, what are we, Drew?! The winners? "Ladies and gentlemen, the first prize of AIDS goes to Andrew Beckett and his lover Miguel..." Excuse me, I'm not your lover. I'm your Care Partner. 
! 
 I'm not ready to die. 
 Do you think I'm ready for it?! I hate this shit. I'm not a fucking martyr! I hate every goddamn part of it! 
 MIGUEL (CONT.) Please don't leave me. I love you so much. Don't die, don't leave me, please... 
 I am so scared. I am so fucking, incredibly, fucking scared... 
 ANDREW (CONT.) You know, there's only one thing to do. (beat) We have to have a party. 
 Did I ever tell you, I hate costume parties? 
 My lettuce is wilting. 
! 
 We're friends of Beckett's. 
 It's me, you dork. 
 I'm Lisa Miller. 
 Glad to finally meet you. Come on in. 
 (to Lisa) I have to introduce you to the can of soup. You can enter the costume contest together as a lunch special. 
 This is Lisa Miller. Miguel Alvarez. 
 My sister, Maria. (to Lisa) Pastrami on rye? 
 Corned beef. 
 Want to dance? 
 Sure! 
 Beckett. You seem... better. Energized, more alive... 
 I had a blood transfusion today. I feel great. 
 I'm a law suit. 
 Not bad. 
 Get it? 
 Let's find you a drink. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) What do you want? 
 Beer. (patting his briefcase) We need to go over your Q and A. 
 Excuse me, I'm having a goddamn party, is that allright with you? 
 Sure. It's fine. 
 No, we have to do it. But later, allright? 
 Thank you. 
 'Scuse me, darling. 
 You think I'm uncomfortable... 
 Correct. 
 You're right. 
 Thank you. 
 I'm an accountant. What do you do? 
 I'm a lawyer. (points to Lisa) That's my wife! 
 Have a cocktail wienie. 
 Thanks, Sarah. (to the POLICEMAN) Nice costume. 
 It's not a costume, I just got off work. You're cute. 
 (pointing to Lisa) That's my wife. Want to see a picture of my baby? 
 (reaching for his wallet) Absolutely. Want to see a picture of my baby? 
 I'll see you in an hour, max. 
 Night, honey. 
 Congratulations, Miller. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) You survived your first gay party intact. 
 Let me tell you something, okay? When you're brought up, like the rest of us, in a place like where I was brought up, there's not a whole lot of discussion about... homosexuals. As a kid, you're taught right away that queers are weird, queers are funny, they're a danger to kids, they're afraid to fight, and they all want to cop your joint. And that pretty much sums up the general thinking out there, if you want to know the truth. 
 Thank you for sharing that with me, Joe. 
 Let's review these notes for your testimony. We have a big day on Monday. 
 JOE (CONT.) When you refer to Wheeler, call him Charles, to show how you'd been admitted to the inner circle, you were considered one of them. 
 (distracted) Uh huh... 
 JOE (CONT.) Beckett? 
 Charles. Okay. Miller? 
 What? 
 Do you... pray? 
 Yeah. Sure. 
 JOE (CONT.) Then we establish how Wheeler's boys recruited you after law school... 
 What have you prayed for? 
 For a healthy baby. For Lisa to make it through the delivery. For the Phillies to get into the playoffs. 
 (no self-pity) There's a possibility I won't be around for the end of this trial. 
 I've considered that. 
 What happens? 
 We proceed, representing your estate. 
 I've made provisions in my will for some charities. Miguel will need a lawyer. I know it's not your area... 
 I know a good probate lawyer. 
 Thanks. (a beat) Do you like opera? 
 Opera? 
 Want to hear my favorite aria? 
 Opera? 
 (over the MUSIC) Andrea Chenier, by Giordano. This is Madeleine. She's telling how, during the French revolution, a mob set fire to her house. Her mother died, saving her. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) "It was during that sorrow that love came to me! 
 ANDREW (CONT.) "I am Oblivion! I am Glory! I am Love, Love, Love!" 
 I think I'll... I told Lisa. 
 Right. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) (businesslike) I'll look over the Q and A. 
 You're ready, don't worry. 
 Jesus. 
 Fucking guy... 
 Place your left hand on the Bible and raise your right hand. 
 "Do you swear to tell the truth... 
 Wyant Wheeler had aggressively recruited me. They were the most prestigious firm in Philadelphia, full of opportunity. And I was impressed by the partners. 
 Including Charles Wheeler? 
 Particularly, Charles. 
 What impressed you about him? 
 He was... the kind of person I thought I wanted to be. 
 What kind of person is that? 
 Possessed of an encyclopedic knowledge of the law. A razor sharp litigator, a genuine leader, gifted at bringing out the very best in others. An awesome ability to illuminate the most complex of legal concepts to colleagues, courtrooms, the person on the street. (a smile) The kind of person who plays three sets of tennis but doesn't sweat. But underneath the elegant surface, was an adventurous spirit. 
 Obviously, at this time, you weren't sick. 
 It's possible I was infected with the HIV virus at that time, but I wasn't diagnosed until several years later. 
 You didn't look then, the way you look now? 
 No. I was thirty pounds heavier. I was athletic. 
 A regular all-American guy? 
 I suppose you could say that. 
 Except... you were gay? 
 I still am. 
. 
 In the years you worked at Wyant Wheeler, did you ever tell Charles Wheeler you were gay? 
 No. I didn't. 
 Can you explain why you didn't? 
 You don't bring your personal life into a law firm. You're not supposed to have a personal life, really. Anyway, I did plan to tell Charles, eventually. But then, this thing happened at the tennis club... 
 Longstreet's interested in the Harrisburg deal. 
 I'm seeing him this afternoon. 
 What do you call a woman who has PMS and ESP at the same time?. 
 What? 
 A bitch who knows everything. 
 How does a faggot fake an orgasm? 
 Charles, that's revolting! 
 Relieved. That I'd never told him I was gay. Very relieved. 
 Are you a good lawyer? 
 I'm an excellent lawyer. 
 What makes you an excellent lawyer? 
 I love the law. I know the law. I excel at practicing it. It's the only thing I've ever wanted to do. 
 What do you love about it? 
 Well... many things. But I think the thing I love the most, is that every once in a while, not that often, but occasionally... you get to be part of justice being done. It's really quite a thrill when that happens. 
 You said earlier you aspired to be the kind of person who had "an adventurous spirit." Is that correct? 
 Something like that. 
 Do you take risks? 
 In my work? Yes. Calculated risks. You have to. 
 In general. Do you take risks in other areas of your life? 
 Not unnecessary ones. 
 Have you ever been to the Apollo Cinema on Sansom Street? 
 (looking Belinda right in the eye) A few times. 
 BELINDA (OS) What kind of movies do they show there? 
 ANDREW (OS) Gay movies. 
 Gay pornographic movies? 
 Yes. 
 Do men have sex with each other in that theater? 
 Yes. 
 BELINDA (OS) How about you, Mr. Beckett? 
 ANDREW (OS) Yes. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Once. 
 I'm Robert. 
 Andrew. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Now what do we do? 
 I think we'll figure it out. 
 When? Approximately what year did this event take place? 
 I guess it was 1984, 85. 
 Were you aware in 1984 or 1985 that there was a fatal disease out there, called AIDS, and that you could contract it through sexual activity? 
 It's impossible to know exactly when or how I was infected with HIV. 
 But you were having anonymous sex in porno theaters in 1984 and 1985? 
 That happened once. People weren't talking about AIDS then, the way we are now. Or safe sex. 
 You'd heard of AIDS in 1984, 85? 
 I'd heard of something. The gay plague, gay cancer, but... we didn't know how you could get it, or that it could kill you. 
 BELINDA (OS) (sounds far away) Do you need a break? 
 No. 
 While you were employed at Wyant Wheeler, you did everything you could to make sure no one knew you were an active homosexual, correct? 
 That is not correct. I never lied about it. 
 Did you keep a picture of your lover on your desk? 
 No. 
 Do other lawyers at the firm keep pictures of their spouses or fiances on their desks? 
 Some do. I didn't. 
 As a homosexual, one is often forced to conceal one's sexuality, is that right? 
 In some situations. 
 Isn't it true you have spent your life pretending to be something you're not, so much so that the art of concealment and dishonesty has become second nature to you?! 
 Objection! 
 I'll withdraw it. Mr. Beckett? Were you living with Miguel Alvarez in 1984 or 1985 when you had your anonymous sexual encounter in the porn theater? 
 Yes. 
 You could have infected him, isn't that right? 
 Miguel has not been infected. As I said, we weren't aware of AIDS, then, or how it is spread. 
 Really? 
 Yes. 
 You've testified the lesions on your face were visible to the people you worked with, correct? 
 That's right. 
 And it's your contention, that when the partners were made aware of the lesions, they jumped to the conclusion you had AIDS and fired you. 
 Absolutely. 
 Do you have any lesions on your face at this time? 
 One. Here, in front of my ear. 
 Remembering you are under oath, answering truthfully, can you see the lesion on your face, in this mirror, three feet away? Answering truthfully. 
 By the time I was fired, there were four lesions on my face, much bigger... 
 Answer the question, please. 
 No. I can't really see it. 
 Thank you. 
 JOE (OS) (far away) Your Honor? May I have ten minutes in re-direct? 
 Yes sir. 
 I only need five! (to Belinda, reaching for the mirror) May I? 
 JOE (CONT.) Do you have any lesions on any part of your body, at this time, that resemble the lesions that were on your face at the time you were fired? 
 Yes. On my torso. 
 If it please the court, I'd like to ask Mr. Beckett to remove his shirt, so that the jury can have an accurate idea of what we're talking about. 
 We object, Your Honor. It would unfairly influence the jury. 
 Your Honor, if Mr. Beckett was forced by his illness to use a wheelchair, would the defense ask him to park it outside? We're talking about AIDS, we're talking about lesions. Let's see what we're talking about. 
 (a moment, then) I'll allow it. Would you mind removing your shirt, Mr. Beckett? 
 Allright. 
 Can you see the lesions on your chest in this mirror? 
 Yes. 
 Thank you. 
 I've discovered something interesting, Charles. 
 (to Belinda) ... keep them from that area, on grounds of relevancy. (to Seidman) What, Bob? 
 No matter how hard I try, I can't lose a file in my computer. 
 SEIDMAN (CONT.) The system automatically makes a backup. 
 I don't think I should hear this. 
 You can erase the backup... (a challenge to Wheeler) But why would you? 
 (venomous) What's the point, Bob? 
 (calm) Very interesting, Bob. Let's make a note of that. Andy didn't lose the complaint in his computer. He never put it in. He lied about that, too. 
 (weary) Charles... 
 If you feel differently, Bob, you should say so, when you're called to the stand. After all, this isn't a conspiracy. 
 Why did you recruit Andrew Beckett to your firm? 
 If you're the owner of a major league ball club, you recruit the hot rookie. And Andy was tremendously promising as a young attorney. That's why we went after him, that's why we hired him, and that's why we stuck with him, year after year... waiting for the promise to be fulfilled. But it never was. 
 You kept giving him another chance? 
 Of course we did. When you've groomed someone they way we groomed Andy, nurturing him, lavishing all kinds of special treatment on him... you've made quite an investment. We were waiting for his promise to kick in, and deliver. But, ultimately, we could no longer ignore the gap between the promise and the reality... This is one of the saddest times in my life. To sit in this court, testifying to Andy's ultimate failure to make the grade. To discover that he is one of those people who wants to benefit by the system, but doesn't want to play by the system's rules. To think you know someone, only to find out... you don't know them at all. It's heartbreaking. 
 Thank you. That's all for now, Your Honor. 
 Mr. Miller? 
 (very gentle) Explain to me, if you can, Mr. Wheeler, explain this to me like I'm a ten year-old. This trial is not about a disease, is that what you're saying? Not about your understandable, if unfounded, fear of catching AIDS through casual contact with someone who has it? You're saying, this trial is about Andrew Beckett's character. Am I getting this right? 
 Yes, character. To the extent that it affects a person's ability to do a great job. 
 WHEELER (CONT.) Andy worked when he wanted to work, telling us what he thought we needed to know about his lifestyle... 
 I didn't mind covering for Andy, but I did wonder... when was he planning to deal with his problem? 
 Sometimes it seems like society is run by these kinds of people. 
 What kind of people? 
 People who want to bend the rules... 
 If you want to be a leader in this society, you have to make certain sacrifices. 
 ... to suit their personal desires, and the rest of us have to live with it. 
 You have to make a decision: is this guy partner material? 
 Who makes the rules, Mr. Wheeler? You? 
 Yes, I did see the lesions. I suspected he was sick... 
 The everyday, common person with decent values... 
 It seems like he wasn't willing to face the reality of his situation... 
 I didn't tell the others, I was afraid to... 
 ... But now, we're standing up for ourselves... 
 ... But we shouldn't have fired him... 
 ... It's time to get this society back on track! 
 Could you call an ambulance, please? 
 It's making it worse. Take it out. Take it out! 
 They wanted to see if he'd rise to the challenge. 
 They wanted to give him a final chance. 
 I'd still love to know what happened to that missing file. 
 Wouldn't we all? 
 Why would they fire him? Why not a medical leave, or... 
 They hate homosexuals. 
 It's not against the law to disapprove of homosexuals. 
 It is against the law to fire someone for having AIDS. That's why we're here. 
 You're the foreman. You haven't said anything. What do you think? 
 They're saying he wasn't a good lawyer. He was mediocre. And the fact that they gave him the most important lawsuit they'd ever had, for one of their most important clients... they say that doesn't prove anything, because that was just a test. What did they call it? A carrot. To see if he'd rise to the occasion... Okay... Say I've got to send a pilot into enemy territory, and he's gonna be flying a plane that cost 350 million dollars... Who am I going to put into that plane? A rookie who can't cut the grade, because I want to see if he'll rise to the challenge? Or am I going to give that assignment to my best pilot, my most experienced, my sharpest, my top gun... The very best I've got? 
 We have, Your Honor... 
 MARINE (CONT.) We find for the plaintiff, Andrew Beckett. 
 Have you awarded any damages? 
 Yes, we have, Your Honor. (referring to a list) For back pay and loss of benefits ... one hundred fortythree thousand dollars. 
 DR. GILLMAN ... if he comes out of the hospital this time, you mustn't expect him to be like he was before... 
 What do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean? 
 What? 
 A good start. 
 ANDREW (CONT.) Excellent work, Joe. I thank you. 
 It was good working with you, Andrew. You're welcome. (sees the oxygen mask) Hey. Shouldn't you put that thing back on? 
 JOE (CONT.) I better get home. Lisa and I are having some friends over. 
 (muffled by the mask) Sure thing. 
 I'll see you, Beckett. 
 (through mask) Thanks for coming by. 
 You bet. We'll see you later. 
 (to Miguel) He's looking good. I wouldn't be surprised if he gets out of here soon. 
 We just want to get him home. Thanks for stopping by, Joe. 
 Night. 
 He's tired. He ought to sleep. 
 What do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean? 
 Night, Andy. See you tomorrow, buddy. 
 REV. JIM God bless you, Andy. 
 Goodnight, son. Get some rest, okay? 
 Goodnight angel, my sweet boy... 
 Andy. 
 (through mask) I'm okay, bro. I'll see you tomorrow. 
 I'm ready... 
 Ready for what, baby? 
 Whatever. 
 I hope you're ready for "Studs," because that's what's on. 
 (to Joe) It's Miguel. 
 Miguel? 
... 
