 
 (whispers; low) Gonna fuck you up. Gonna beat you like I's your daddy... 
 CASSIUS, JR. 
 
! 
 X (O.S.) ...and those of you who think you came here to hear us tell you, like these Negro leaders do, that times will get better and we shall overcome someday, I tell you: you came to the wrong place. 
 MALCOLM X (CONT'D) 'Cause your times will never get better until yo make them better. And any of you who think you came here to hear us tell you to turn the other cheek to the brutality of the white man and the established system of injustice in this country, to beg for your place at their lunch counter, I say again! You came to the wrong place. 
 MALCOLM X (CONT'D) (beat) 'Cause we don't teach you to turn the other cheek. We don't teach you to turn the other cheek in the South. We don't teach you to turn the other cheek in the North. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches you, instead, to obey the law. To carry yourselves in a respectable way. And a proud Afro-American way. But at the same time...we teach you...that anyone who puts his hand on you? Do your BEST...to see he doesn't PUT HIS HAND on any...body...else...AGAIN. 
 (approving; past newspaper) Yeah. Like that, Daddy. Don't jump in one place. Bad for the heart. That's the most important thing. (without looking) 
! 
 
!!! 
: 
 CASSIUS/BUNDINI (shout) Float like a butterfly! Sting like a bee! Rumble, young man, rumble. Aaaaaaargh! 
 Sonny Liston: you ain't no champ! You a chump! (beat) You want to lose your money, bet on Sonny. He know I'm great. He will go in eight! 
 CASSIUS (CONT'D) What you lookin' at, you ugly bear?! 
 CASSIUS (CONT'D) C'mon, bum. I whup you right here! 
 A (reading) ...210... Cassius Clay weighs 210 pounds. 
 (changes down) You sure you got that right...? 
 Pounds of what?! 
 Pounds of ugly! He so ugly, sweat run backwards off his forehead to get away from his face! C'mon, bear! I turn you into a rug!! Rumble right now, man! 
 (low) Keep talkin', punk-ass faggot! I'll fuck you up like I's your daddy... 
 You whup me, I'll crawl out of the ring on my knees and catch the next jet plane out of the country. 
 (older reporter) That a promise? 
 (to Jimmy Cannon) ...you be the first eatin' his words! 
 (shout) Liston says he'll talk with his fists. "Lip from Louisville." (laughter) ...odds 7:1 against you. Big bet's whether he'll knock you out in the first round or third round or kill you altogether. You scared of him? 
 I'm scared of no man. I give Sonny Liston talking lessons, boxing lessons and falling down lessons. 
 CANNON/OTHERS Yeah, sure. Are you a Black Muslim? Pat Putnam in the Miami Herald said... 
 "Black Muslim"'s a press word... 
 Man's religion's his own business. What kinda question's that? 
 (sees) Howard! 
 ...cannot stand you, Cassius.   He really wants to kill you... 
 Howard Cosell, you are an instigator! (Cosell smiles) How you get that way? When I'm done with Liston, I'm comin' for you! 
 (to Pacheco) It doesn't come down, I cancel this fight. You call me in an hour with his blood pressure. 
 (MIAMI) 
 (entering) I'm called Bundini, rhymes with Houdini. He was a Jew, too...some other people call me Fastblack...or Daddy Mac... 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) (motions at lounge chair) Shorty sent me to Sugar Ray Robinson. I gave my power to Sugar Ray for seven years, gave him my voodoo, my magic. Now Shorty sent me to you. 
 Who Shorty? 
 I call him Shorty 'cause he like 'em circumcised. Original people. Like Moses. And I was a babe in a basket, too. I was born on a doorstep with a note 'cross my chest that read, "Do the best you can for him, world." I had to suck the first nipple come along. I didn't run away from home...I been runnin' to home. 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) (beat, and his raison d'être) Now, I gotta ask you. You fixin' them fights? Else no way you could tell great Archie Moore what round you droppin' him in...all of them predictions you make, comin' true. Never heard of nobody predictin' the round like you. You either a phony or Shorty's in your corner. Tell me the truth, young man... 
 ...I study every fight. 'Til I got a plan. Wear him down two through four. Drop him in the fifth round. So the p'diction ain't a p'diction. It's a plan. And 'cause of all the poppin' off I do, I know I gotta win! That's the truth. And why I'm tellin' you? 
 'Cause I'm gonna be your Inspiration. Your motivator. In your corner. Can I be in your corner, young man? 
 (thinks, then) Yeah... 
 (inexplicably moved, covers) Ain't spent much time in Miami. Where the water? 
 120 over 80? (re: his blood pressure) You should be asleep... 
 
 When you get back? 
 X Just now.    I'm front row, seat 7. 
 I'm gonna find Mom and Dad. 
 You could have stayed. Nobody gotta hide when they with me. 
 X Nothing wrong with being cool, my brother. You been working toward this moment for four years. 
 (while tying) He's right. 
 X It's a crusade in modern times. And television is beaming if off Telstar to the whole world. So Allah has brought this about for a reason... (time to leave) Salaam alaikum, my brother... 
 
 
'S 
 
 He was supposed to kill me.   Well, I'm still alive. 
 LISTON'S LEFT 
 (at ringside, on radio) He's opened a cut on Liston. Liston's never been cut! 
 (to Dundee) He's nothin' to me... 
 CASSIUS (CONT'D) And he knows it... 
 WIDER:   CASSIUS 
 ...my eyes! 
 (shouting) My eyes! I can't see...somethin' in my eyes! 
 (his gloves) Cut 'em off! Cut 'em!   I'm blind. 
 No. You quit, it's over! Get out there. Be a yardstick. This is the big one, daddy. Get out there and run! 
 (doing color radio commentary with Les Kelter's blow-by-blow) ...Clay, a round ago, looked like he'd about had it, but in round six... 
 I upset the world! I am the greatest! I am the greatest! 
 CASSIUS (CONT'D) (to press) Eat your words! Eat your words! 
 What made him so easy for you? 
 I told you. Didn't I tell you? 
 Was there any single point you knew you had him? 
 I had him in the first round. 'Cause I'm the greatest! (and seeing at ringside, calling him up) Sam... Hey, Sam! Let him up. 
 CASSIUS (CONT'D) I am the greatest! And he the greatest rock 'n' roll singer. Sam Cooke! I want everybody to bear witness. (they embrace) I shook up the world! Don't have a mark on me! I was burning. I was blind. I'm the prettiest thing that ever lived. I shook up the world! I shook up the world! 
 ...I don't care what should have been ordered! We need a victory party right now. (pause) I got national press, the family, the champ, all kinds of folks... (beat) 250 to 300. Yes. 
 CROSSES - NIGHT 
 
 Why's he so scared? 
 X Man, look at that guy run! 
 The Mummy! "I can't get away from the mummy!" Yeah, but that mummy too slow to catch anybody. 
 Hey!   The mummy always gets his man... 
 No, he don't! (to kid) Now, don't believe that stuff on television... 
 A The people look to you. Do you plan on being a people's champ, like Joe Louis? 
 (tentative) Yeah. I going to be a people's champ... (beat) But not like Joe Louis, exactly... 
 A (starts) Mr. Clay...? 
 And I'm not Clay. Clay's the name of the people who owned by ancestors. I don't want to be called after that slave name no more. So I'm "X." Cassius X. And I'm a member of the Nation of Islam. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is my spiritual guide. Malcolm X is my mentor. 
 (all at once) You a card-carrying member?    Aren't Black Muslims a hate group? 
 (droll) "Card-carrying"...? Don't need no "card." You got a Christian card? 750 million people believe in Islam. I'm one of them. 
 (O.S.) Minister Malcolm...what about the reports of a split between you and Elijah Muhammad? 
 X This is the champ's time. And I'm here as a friend to celebrate his victory. So I got nothing you want... 
 I'm going to be a people's champion. But I don't have to be the way you want me to be. I'm gonna be what I want. And I'm free to think any way I want... 
 X I was leaving, saw the light on...how come you're up? 
 (mumbles, half-asleep) ...watchin' a show on termites...they knockin' down this house, here. 
 X I been invited to speak at Ibadan University in Nigeria. C'mon with me? 
 Six million in your house and you don't know it. Where? 
 X Africa.   You been there? 
 Africa? No. Only Rome.      Yeah, man, let's go! 
 X Nkrumah stayed with me when he was a student in New York, so we'll stop in Ghana... 
 When we leaving? 
 X Next Thursday. 
 (sees) What is it? 
 X You ever been so angry...have you ever been so angry that you'd explode? 
 (after a beat) Tore out a picture of Emmett Till when I was little. Couldn't take my eyes to it...couldn't look at it. Barb-wire around his neck to a 75- pound cotton-gin fan. Took out his eye. The cruelty to it...I couldn't look at it...couldn't throw it away. 
 X What else? 
 I thought, "What I do wrong to be so low that people could do that to people like me?" It made me feel ashamed. And that makes no sense. But that's what it was. 
 X ...when I heard about the four girls bombed in the 16th Street Church in Birmingham? (beat) The prohibitions of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad prevented me from speaking my voice in action. Because Birmingham was part of the civil rights movement, begging for a place at the white man's table... But dead children...are dead children. So the anger I felt, I had to contain. I locked that down! So tight my muscles seized. I lost control over the right side of my body. Leg didn't work...right arm didn't work. "I'm having a stroke," I thought. I had to hold it in 'cause I wanted, all I wanted was to BREAK SOMETHING! Break a part...any part of this system. Because you are so provoked as a human being. In your spirit. In your heart... At the death of children. But I COULD DO...nothing. 
 MALCOLM X (CONT'D) (putting his glasses back on) Everyone knows... Now I'm advocating more direct political action involvement with the international struggle... So Elijah Muhammad has suspended me as a Minister in the Nation of Islam for 90 days. 
 You can fix that... 
 X I don't know. I will try when we get back. Until then I will live each day as if I am already dead. 
 Only after long service and high merit in the spiritual and physical rebirth of Afro-American people...is one granted an original name. But you are special. A world champion. So there is a gift I wish to give you. From this day forward you will be known as Muhammad Ali...which means "one worthy of praise," and Ali means "most high." 
 (a beat, sounding it) Muhammad Ali. (humble) "Worthy of praise..." Thank you! 
 (cautioning) Be very careful what you say...your words reflect on the nation of Islam, now. 
 Yes, sir. 
 (after a beat) Up until now, I have entrusted your spiritual development to Brother Malcolm. (beat) I do not feel this is a wise course anymore. 
 (not a thought) This is a great honor, Messenger... 
 A (V.O.) (to Ali) Could we get a picture with you? (to Cassius, Sr.) You mind, Mr. Clay? 
 A One more. (click) Thank you. 
 When the contract run out. I want black lawyers and managers. Chauncey Eskridge on North La Salle Street... 
 I don't need no "protectin'" from myself. Why I need protecting from myself by them...? 
 I ain't one of their thoroughbreds! Or their charity things. "Let's do somethin' for that well-behaved colored boy, Cassius." I ain't well-behaved nothing! I am a man. 
 ALI (CONT'D) And I am not Cassius. I changed my name. I am Muhammad Ali, now. 
 That's right. 
 No one "made me"... 
 (anybody's son) I made me. (adamant) No one's in that ring but me! 
 I know who I'm not...I'm not drinkin'! Goin' back on my wife! I am not prayin' to no blue-eyed, blonde-haired Jesus. I ain't... 
 ...dinner! 
 You didn't get it from me...your words, your sense of humor, what makes you angry, what makes you a fighter. You got that from your daddy... 
 You saying I'm just like him? 
 I'm saying, if he was your age today, he'd do the same as you. And he knows that. 
 13X (V.O.) Brother Malcolm... 
 X What is it, Joseph? 
 13X (V.O.) The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has given the Muslim name, Muhammad Ali, to Cassius X. Herbert Muhammad's been placed in charge of his training, instead of you. (and ultimately) Muhammad Ali will not be traveling with you to Africa. 
 JOSEPH 13X (V.O.) (CONT'D) The Honorable Elijah Muhammad has asked me to inform you your suspension has been extended indefinitely. 
 (concerned for her husband) Malcolm? 
 X (after a beat, disconsolate) Cassius won't be coming to Africa...not with me. 
 Go anyway. Don't put it off.      It's not safe here. ONE OF HIS CHILDREN (OVER) (calling) Mommy...the bath's ready... 
 (joking) Hey, man, where they put the real pilot? What you doin' up here? 
 (not understanding; British accent) I am...the pilot. He's the copilot... (moves map case) Here, Mr. Clay, sit down... 
 No, man, I meant...in L'ville, when I growed up, they barely let black folks drive buses. 
 (V.O.) We should think of a name, Malcolm... INT. CAIRO BUILDING - WIDE:   HALLWAY - DAY 
 X (V.O.) How about Gamilah or Khalilah? 
 (eating) Anything? 
 Motor Pool, here, have a Chevy parts catalogue...? 
 
 (GHANA) 
 X (shouts) Brother Muhammad... 
 Hey, man!!! 
 ALI (CONT'D) How you doin'? What's up, brother? I knew you were here...didn't think you were still here... 
 X And I heard you were coming. 
 We just got here now... (words rush out) And, maaan, the brothers were flyin' a DC 8. Flippin' switches, navigatin', filing flight plans, talkin' French... 
 ALI (CONT'D) Where you goin'? 
 X When...uh, Liberia.   When you fighting Liston? 
 November. 
 X This is Maya Angelou and Ambassador Huang Ha. Amando Gonzalez is from Cuba. Taher Kaid is the Ambassador from Algeria. 
 Man, where should I go?   We're planning on Egypt. 
 X Algeria. See Ben Bella... (beat) Go to Mecca, Medina. I just came back. Made my seven circuits around the Kaaba, prayed at sunrise... There were two million people...pilgrims from all over. Dressed all the same, high and low, the same. Blonde-haired, blue-eyed Muslims. Arabs. (off Ali's look of surprise) Blacks. Yeah. All of them, Muslims praying together. 
 (V.O.) Hello...? 
 X It's Marlin. You'll never guess who Malcolm ran into... 
 (in French; into phone) Un moment... 
 BRADLEY (CONT'D) (English translation; into phone) Hold on a second... 
 (in French) Il n'y a pas de quoi. Cela m'a fait grand plaisir. Faites-lui mes compliments. 
 BRADLEY (CONT'D) (English translation) It's nothing. Give him my compliments. 
 Malcolm bumped into Cassius Clay. Muhammad Ali...whatever he calls himself... 
 I thought that was all over. Is Clay going to support Malcolm's U.N. resolution? 
 I don't know. 
 Find out. We'll pick up on Malcolm in Liberia ourselves. 
 X Drank from the well of Zem-Zem... And you should visit Cairo. I have friends there in... 
 (his thoughts) ...shouldn't have quarreled with the Honorable Elijah... 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to himself) You shouldn't have... (vocalized) ...quarreled with the honorable Elijah Muhammad... 
 X What? 
 You shouldn't have quarreled with Elijah Muhammad. 
 X Brother Muhammad... 
 MALCOLM X (CONT'D) Brother Muhammad...! 
 Sonji...Sonji Roi... 
 (laughs) What you keep sayin' my name for? 
 'Cause I love it, girl. How long you been workin' for Herbert? 
 'Bout a year. I sell "Muhammad Speaks" over the phone... 
 What kind of name is that? 
 My father named me after Sonja Henie. 
 What's your father do? 
 He was shot in a poker game when I was two. He don't do nothin'. Sonja, on the other hand, was an ice skater, and my mother died when I was eleven. 
 So who raised you? 
 Godparents, but I been on my own, doing my own thing... 
 Whatcha doin' tomorrow?       Go ridin' with me. 
 No.   I gotta work, you know. 
 I square it with Herbert.       I got a record player in my car. 
 A record player?     C'mon.    How come it don't skip? 
 Got springs and stuff. 
 Herbert said you met The Beatles. 
 Yeah. Only one of 'em's smart...the one with the glasses. 
 ...he's my favorite. 
 People all screaming and fainting. I asked him, "This the way they act when you get big?" 
 What he say? 
 He said, "Champ. The more real you get, the more unreal it gonna get." 
 Wow... 
 Let's go... 
 Yeah... 
 (crossing out) Where you live? 
 I'm takin' you there... 
 I think I gonna keep you around forever, girl. 
 (laughs) Well, I'm not too busy right now, so...I'll think on it. 
 Herbert said you weren't a Muslim. 
 Cover my hair? No make-up?     Long dresses? Honey, please. (beat) Were you a virgin? 
 Why? 
 (laughs) 'Cause you so "gone" off a little good time. 
 I'm no virgin...but I may as well be. (beat) I ain't jokin'! I always know when I know. See this face? I mean, you got a pretty face for a girl's face, but you ever seen somethin' as pretty as me? Now, you about five-foot-three...that's too small. But I overlook that, too, 'cause... 
 (sarcastic) Thank you so much. 
 ...'cause of your spirit! 
 My "spirit"...? 
 Yeah.   'Cause you too much fun! 
 You serious? 
 But you gotta be a Muslim. 
 Huh? How you do that? Step over a broom...shazaam...you a Muslim? 
 Maaan, I ain't never been with a girl like you. 
 Baby, maybe you ain't ever gonna be with any other. 
 What? 
 That's right.   I wanna marry her. 
 You can't marry that girl! She was a date! Have some fun! She's not your wife! You don't marry this girl. (puts contracts in front of him) Sign there. Management papers. My father will kill me. 
 True love! 
 Watch what you signing, Ali. 
 (to Bingham; sharp) Nothing to do with you. 
 You talkin' to me, or someone walk inna room, fat boy? Anything's do to with me I think's to d-d-do with me...I'm st-st-still a Christian. 
 (signs anyway) And get me a kosher cook...lady who cooks at Malcolm's temple. Put my brother on the payroll. 50g a year for drivin' and jivin'. 
 Lana Shabazz... 
 Yeah. How 'bout it, Howard. You be my official full-time photographer. 
 I ain't goin' on your payroll. I like it freelance. Emphasis on "free." 
 Muhammad. She's not...for you. When I met her, she was working at a cocktail lounge with a bunny tail on her backside. 
 What were you doin' down at a cocktail lounge, Herbert? Sellin' "Muhammad Peeks"? 
 (to Bundini) Sober up and say something to this man, Bundini. You supposed to be his "inspiration." 
 (looks at Ali; to Ali, serious) I got to know about Sonji, Muhammad. She got a sister? (as Ali laughs) 
 You been s-s-saving it up, training, Champ. You can't unleash it on this girl all sudden. You may kill her! Maybe you should spread it around more before you tie it down. 
 No. Marriage is the cornerstone of Muslim life. 
 Sonji Roi is not a Muslim! 
 She gonna be a Muslim, now! (flashes) So fix it up, Herbert. 
 SMILEY - DAY 
 13X Why we meeting? 
 The idea was...to...make...Malcolm smaller, you know? Diminished; obscure? Not to turn him into a messiah. (the paper) What I got, now, is Malcolm shoulder to shoulder with Martin Luther King. (beat) And Malcolm running all over the world getting Ben Bella and Nasser to denounce racism in the U.S. while we're competing over there with the Soviets. (MORE) 
 13X You got bad breath, man. 
 Thyroid. I got a stab wound in 1961. They took it out. We gotta talk about this guy, too. 
 13X When do I get my expenses reimbursed...dry cleaning lots of suits isn't free... 
 (to Bundini) What you drinkin'? 
 What am I drinkin'? Water's what I'm drinkin', champ! I'm a natural man... 
 What's goin' on?     We're late. 
 (V.O.) I'm changing my damn clothes! You didn't like what I was wearin'! 
 Come on in...! (sees) What's that? 
 (with large glass) What you wanted, isn't it...a water glass with vodka...? 
 That was before... 
 Before what? 
 Before you showed up... 
 I fine runnin' around in all these cute short things for you. I submissive to you. But I ain't gonna be submissive to the Brother X's and what they think. They askin' me questions alla time anyway. 
 What questions?! 
 (V.O.) About you and us and I ain't tellin' 'em shit. 
 I don't drink. I don't smoke. I converted to Islam for you and... 
 All except the dress! I ain't puttin' no bleached-out, double- ugly bedsheets on this body, honey! I'm normal! 
 (on radio) Hey there, old, aware ones. And you, too, my fair ones...This is "Daddio's Jazz Patio." ON KBCA this fine day, which is A-okay... 
 
 X As-Salaam Alaikum... 
 A (shouts) What you doin' in my pockets, man? Get your hand outta my pocket! 
 X Hold it, hold it, brothers! (pleading) Let's be cool. 
 MALCOLM'S EYES 
 
 Ambushed! 
 What? 
 (dazed) They killed Malcolm...they shot Malcolm. 
 (his thoughts) You were the first...you walked me forward, my brother...you were the first... 
 (sings) "Been a long, long time comin', but a change gonna come, yes it is..." 
 
 ...the arena is surrounded by FBI, the stands are only half full, the promoter has taken out a million- dollar insurance policy due to Cassius Clay's membership in the militant and radical Black Muslims because of death threats. Oh, and by the way...Sonny Liston is here, too. 
 meets Liston, nails him with a straight right. Ali begins baiting him, dancing. Liston tries to cut off the ring, jabbing ineffectually. Ali lets Liston in, pulls back, then pivots on his right foot, throws a short right and RAMP INTO SLO-MO...to see Liston not see it coming. 
 Get up, sucker! Get up and fight! No one gonna believe this! 
 It's over; it's over! 
 You okay? (he's cold) What's wrong? 
 Why you done up like that? 
 I'm dyin' and...'cause this is how I dress! I dyin' for you out of worry... 
 "Worry"...? 
 Yeah. And all you care about is if I look dull enough? 
 The world looks at me, girl! What if I straightened my hair, live in the white suburbs? How I am says something! 
 (quiet; tough) Well, sorry you don't like how I am... 
 (to Bundini) Where's Herbert? 
 What do I do...? 
 If you want, have no contact with her for ninety days. Then you make a public statement of divorce in the mosque, and Islamic law will be satisfied. 
 "Satisfied?"...satisfaction is not makin' it with the woman who send you to the moon? 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) Man, I'm the only normal person left around here and I'm a black Jew who can't read and is half drunk. 
 Please stay, Brother Herbert. 
 I ain't dead! 
 You got the prettiest eyes... 
 Yeah? 
 He so pretty, when you look up "pretty" in the dictionary, he too pretty to be there. 
 Huh? 
 What you talking about? 
 Champ.   It's Eskridge... 
 (takes phone) You know about this? 
 (V.O.) Yes. But I think the government's looking to negotiate a deal... 
 ...I flunk their draft board test. Now, without testing if I am "wiser" or "worser," they decide I can go into the Army. 
 Cassius, it is my opinion you... 
 (cuts in) And I'm not Cassius Clay. That's a slave name. I'm a free man. I'm Muhammad Ali. 
 (stops, realizing) You know, I apologize to you. On the air. Your name is Muhammad Ali. You have the right to be called whatever you want. 
 (stays angry) You make a lot of mistakes for a so-called educated man. You really go to law school? 
 Yes, Muhammad. And to think I gave up a lucrative practice for the likes of you. 
 I'm the best thing that ever happened to you, Howard Cosell. Without me you be a tall white man with a microphone in his mouth. 
 (fast) And without me...you'd be a mouth. 
 (sarcastic) Have a little coffee with your sugar...? 
 Keep talking. You were saying something half-smart... 
 They want to make an example out of you. 
 Why? I'm no Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown... 
 All they are is political. They tell people how they ought to be. But you are the HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION of the WORLD. You're important. And they don't like your militancy, your politics. So, they'll make an example out of you. 
 ...of a good "Ne-gro," who do what he told? 
 Yes. Or, to demonstrate here is what happens to your ass if you don't... 
 (quietly) You do six weeks basic...you go into the Reserves...you don't go to Vietnam...you get to box...you even get to keep the money... 
 (lets him know) The Messenger would not object if you joined under these terms. 
 I stay out of jail and I get to fight. 
 (nods) All you have to do is accept the induction. And life goes on. 
 They call your name. You say yes. 
 (nods) Yes. 
 A (presenting badge) Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Clay, you're under arrest for refusing induction... 
 
 (listens; to cam.) Ask Chauncey Eskridge in Chicago. He's my lawyer. No. I'm out on bail. (goes onto balcony [rear shot]) Yeah, I fight. I fight clean. I'm an athlete. Army's there to kill, kill, kill. My religion forbids that. No. I never shot anything in my life. (turns) Do I know where Vietnam is? (wry; playing to Bingham) Yeah. It's on TV... (beat) In southeast Asia? It there, too? (beat) That's a joke, man...! 
 ALI (CONT'D) (frustrated) What do I think about who?      Vietcong? 
 ALI (CONT'D) Man, I ain't got no quarrel with them Vietcong. 
 ALI (CONT'D) No Vietcong ever called me nigger. 
 You know what you j-j-just said...? 
 From Europe to China...every home in America...the world's gonna know what the heavyweight champion of the world said about the U.S. war... 
 So what? (beat) I ain't gonna be what anybody else want me to be. I'm not afraid to be what I want. And think how I want. 
 (reading) Nixon, the Republicans, Boxing Commission in New York, Cleveland and L.A. (a foregone conclusion) But you're also getting attacked as unpatriotic by the NAACP, Roy Wilkins, Jackie Robinson, the New York Times and Joe Louis... 
 
 (to Arum) People are following me... 
 I got almost nowhere I can promote a fight for you. Plus, I think they're going to vacate you from the crown. 
 What? 
 Yeah.   If you're convicted. 
 They gonna take away what no fighter in the world can? 
 And New York may revoke your boxing license. 
 You sure you want to do all this? (politics) Your next three to four years are every heavyweight's prime. And there are few of those years... 
 What 'bout Terrell? 
 We'll know if we can fight Terrell in Illinois this afternoon. Terrell's running his mouth. He said if you're called, you should serve... 
 (angrily) Motherfucker. He got a deferment for bein' too tall, or havin' flat feet. Why don't he serve for me? Tellin' me what I should do... 
 (to Ali + Eskridge) I got to get you some fights.    Fast. 
 You understand we could take away your license to fight Terrell in Illinois? 
 Yes. 
 Are you prepared to apologize? About your unpatriotic remarks that you made? 
 Apologize? No. 
 You said that you were the people's champion. 
 (angry) Yes, sir! 
 Do you think you're acting like the people's champion...?! 
 Yes, sir. I am not going to apologize to you. This isn't a courtroom. And I don't have to sit here and answer your questions. 
 I ain't draft dodgin'! I ain't goin' to Canada. I ain't burnin' my draft card. I ain't burnin' the flag. I'm stayin' right here. And you want to throw me in jail? Go ahead. I'll do my time. I been in jail four hundred years. I'll be in jail four, five more. But I ain't goin' ten thousand miles to help murder and kill poor people for you. 'Cause if I'm gonna die, I'll die now, right here, fighting you. If I wanna die. You my enemy, not Vietcong or Chinese or Japanese. You my opposer when I want freedom. You my opposer when I want justice. You my opposer when I want equality. You want me to go somewhere for you, but you won't even stand up for me in America, for my rights and beliefs, you won't even stand up for me here at home. 
 (getting on scale) Tell Clay he can get on after me. 
 What...? 
 Get on the scale after... 
 (cuts in) What you call me...? 
 Only thing I knows you as:   Cassius Clay! 
 (infuriated) Announce it right here or from flat on your back! 
 ALI (CONT'D) What's my name?!? 
 What's my name, motherfucker?! 
 ALI (CONT'D) What's my name? Ali, at the apex of his athletic skills, fires six- or eight-punch combinations and then changes direction. Ali shoots jabs and hooks going backwards; every move and set of combinations is a dance. Ali's never been as light on his feet, as fast, as complex as in this fight. Like any moment of greatness, we want it to last forever... Then, Ali throws a 17-punch combination. 
 ALI (CONT'D) WHAT'S MY NAME?! 
'S 
 ALI (CONT'D) (shouted) My name?! WHAT'S MY NAME?! 
 (to Judge) If the court would give me my sentence right now instead of waiting and stalling. 
 (obliges) My pleasure. The jury has found you guilty of refusing induction into the United States armed forces. I sentence you to the maximum sentence allowable...five years' imprisonment and a fine of ten thousand dollars. (pause) Fast enough? Your attorney will lodge an appeal. While you're out on bond, I order your passport surrendered. I'll not have you benefitting yourself by fighting abroad... 
 CLOSER - ALI 
 ECU:   ALI 
 Watch now... 
 ALI (CONT'D) (offering) Blow on it... 
 ALI (CONT'D) This spooky! Don't get scared... 
 (laughs) See, you don't need to fight no more... 
 So what's fresh, girl? 
 (smiles) Everything fresh! 
 (smiles) What's the freshest of the freshest? 
 (smiles) Doughnuts just came out... 
 (holds up the doughnut) Feed me those things, I gotta come back as a wrassler. (a ring announcer) 645 pounds. I'd still be pretty...but I be fat pretty... 
 You don't remember when you met me once before...long ago... 
 (joking) I remember something...   Wha's your name? 
 You know my name! You came to my school, right before you win the title. Interviewed you for the school paper. I was eleven. 
 You had a long braid... 
 Yeah! You called me little Indian girl, then. 
 That was you? 
 I loved you then, like all those kids. I never stopped. I still do. 
 You see the Ellis-Quarry fight? 
 Yes... We'll be in front of the U.S. Court of Appeals next month. We'll lose. Then we appeal to the Supreme Court. 
 Ellis the champ? Man. I beatin' on him since we was sixteen. They give Ellis to Joe Frazier? Frazier'll kill him. Then they out of juice. Where's the gate? So they gotta let me fight. I fight Ellis in a phone booth...middle of Times Square...you think that draw a crowd? 
 Draw a crowd or not draw a crowd, Muhammad, is NOT going to make a difference with your boxing licenses. They don't want you to fight. (so much for speculation) ACLU's handling your case against the New York Boxing Commission. They discovered New York's got actual ex-murderers and ex-rapists currently licensed to fight. But revoked yours...? 
 Tijuana? 
 No. State Department refused permission for the one-hour visa. No fight in Tijuana. Look... 
 Can't fight here. Can't fight outside the country... 
 I know people in the restaurant business...want to start up a chain. Muhammad Ali's "Champ Burger"..."Muhammad Malts," "Fist Full of Fries"...all of that. 
 Why I want to be in the restaurant business?! 
 'Cause you need the money. 
 How much all this gonna cost? 
 Too much.    They do that to you, too, you know. 
 (to customers) Look out! 
 Hey, champ! 
 Not then... 
 First time? 1961...Sister Khalilah introduced you at assembly. You said you would be heavyweight champion of the world by the time you were twenty-one! 
 I always tell the truth... 
 I was eleven. I interviewed you for the student paper. You called me "little Indian girl," 'cause I wore my hair real long, in a braid...I told you..."Man, you scribble! You can't even write! You ought to go back to school until you do it better..." 
 (from "All Along the Watchtower") "There must be some kind of way outta here, said the joker to the thief..." 
 ALI'S FACE 
 "No reason to get excited, the thief, he kindly spoke. There are many here among us, who feel that life is but a joke." 
 "But you and I, we've been through that, and this is not our fate. So let us not talk falsely now, the hour it's getting late..." 
 ...struck out at the appellate level in New Orleans. So we're heading back to the Supreme Court... 
 Thought we already got turned down there. 
 I'm petitioning on a conscientious objection basis. Religious belief. We'll petition that your sincere religious belief prohibits you from shooting people. I believe they'll hear that... 
 Where the money come from, Chauncey? Herbert tell me I'm runnin' on empty. Put aside "how do that happen"? Licenses all revoked. No passport. I can't fight here. Can't fight abroad. (beat) And what happen if I lose the Supreme Court? 
 It's all over. You go to jail for five years. 
 
 "Outside in the cold distance, a wild cat did growl, two riders were approaching, and the wind began to HOWL!" 
 ELLIS - NIGHT 
 Ellis doesn't belong in there. 
 (curt) Man give him a shot, he took a shot. 
 I saw Bundini in New York. 
 How's he? 
 ...bad shape. You better get your belt b-b-back... Belinda brings coffee to Bingham... 
 (O.S.) She's got to be done with that bottle. 
 You call your parents, Ali? 
 No, he didn't. I told them about the one on the way...myself. (moves to the kitchen) 
 You p-p-p-promised you'd call them. 
 I'll call 'em, I'll call 'em... (re: the baby) May-may! It go in one end and come out the other. 
 You wanna try changing her, for the experience? 
 You so much better at it, mama. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to Maryum) Maaan...Joe Frazier can't talk, can't up the gate, can't fill the arena. They gotta let me fight. 
 That happen, you promise me you put some new people around you. 
 I need Angelo, Rudy, Ferdie -- 
 Ali, she's talkin' about "Brother" Herbert. 
 Where are they when we need them? You got Gene Kilroy droppin' off groceries like charity. Borrowin' money from my folks. So...? 
 (V.O.) What are your feelings about up- and-coming Ken Norton? 
 
 (still sweating) Norton's big and strong, but... 
 (interrupting) Hold on one second...we have a caller. Go ahead. 
 (V.O.) (into phone) Cosell? This Muhammad Ali. 
 ALI (CONT'D) Go to Georgia or Alabama or Sweden. Everybody know I'm the champ. The crown is a lie. I know it's a lie. Joe Frazier know it's a lie. It time for everybody to stop lying and tell the truth. 
 Let's tell it like it is. With your court and boxing problems, Muhammad, can you get a fight promoted? 
 I ain't interested in the paycheck, I'd fight Joe Frazier for free in a phone booth in Times Square, if I wasn't broke. I still will. 
 Did you say you were broke?   How can you be broke? 
 You've made more money than all previous heavyweight champions combined. What about your management? Surely they have provided for you... 
 I'm saying it's time for everybody to quit lying! Muhammad Ali is the champ! I have to, I'll get the fight on myself. (beat) And if they offer me money, I ain't gonna turn it down. 
 Get me my son, Herbert, on the telephone! 
 Mr. Muhammad Ali desires to do that which the Holy Qur'an teaches him against. I am, therefore, suspending Mr. Ali from the practice of Islam. He may no longer appear in temple, pray or teach, or have any conversation with any Muslim whatsoever. Furthermore...he may no longer use the name of Muhammad Ali. Henceforward, he will revert to his old slave name, Cassius Clay. 
 Muhammad...? 
 You can't call me that no more. 
 Hell, I can't. I'm defying them by talking to you. And being with you. 
 Whyn't you call an ambulance or a doctor? 
 (following behind) Wouldn't let me. Said he knew you...and to call you, Mr. Ali... He's not been out for three days... 
 Bundini! 
 (opens his eyes; half sits) Watchu' doin' here? Gimme that short dog! 
 What's wrong with you, man?! 
 Nothin' wrong with me! 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) What that?!!! 
 A mystery...d-d-d-daylight... 
 (shielding his eyes) Leave me alone! 
 I leave you alone.   You called me! 
 That were a week ago... 
! 
 What you shame yourself like this for, maaan...?! Why you shame yourself?! 
 Lemme alone! (shouts) I'm flyin'! The Sky Chief talk through me. I know the word! 
 You know "low." You so low, the curb look like up! 
 (demonstrates) Yeah? The king gotta go home to his throne! From the root to the fruit...! 
 Those rhymes is old.    Forget 'em. 
 (demonstrates more) God don't care about you! Don't care about me! In all of everything, we mean nothin'. He don't know us. We be. And that's the onliest thing he did. And that's good 'cause that's why we free. But free ain't easy. Free is real. And realness is a motherfucker... (low; almost spooky) It eats raw meat. (beat) It walk in its own shoes. (beat) It does not waver... (pause) Yeah... 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) I sold your belt for five hundred dollars to a barber on Lenox Avenue. That's how low I did you. I'm filled with weakness and got a crazy mind. That belt say you the Heavyweight Champion of the World. Five hundred dollars and I put it into my arm. That's what I called to tell you... 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) ...heard 'bout the Nation, all that court stuff. 
 (absent) Yeah. 
 Forgive me, Muhammad.    Take me back... 
 No. There's no "back" to take you to... 
 FRONTAL:    ALI 
 (to himself) ...you can't do what you do best in the world. And how you feed your family? From prison? Who take care of your kids? And is Allah, is God with me? 
 (O.S.) A thousand dollars to the man who brings me Howard Cosell's toupee! Dead or alive! 
 (loud) Don't bother me. I'm a world- famous broadcaster and you're an ex-champion with diminished skills. I can't be seen you, it would be calamitous to my reputation. 
 Put me on, Howard. 
 Muhammad, I'd do anything for you. But I got bosses who only give a damn about Nielsen ratings. 
 I guarantee...it will be a historical and momentous night! 
 ...what Heavyweight Champion of the World? I'm not the champ. I am retired, finished, out of the game. And I ain't gonna let myself grieve and suffer none. But I know I will not fight again... 
 I thought you were resolute in your resolve to regain your crown... 
 If tomorrow they say: "We want you to fight Joe Frazier. Madison Square Garden. Millions and millionses of dollars. Here's your license back." I will tell them: "I am sorry, but I am done." 
 What about Frazier? 
 You'll have to wonder...what me and Smokin' Joe would have looked like. 
 You surprise me, Muhammad... 
 Howard, you losing your hearing along with your hair? Don't put questions to it! (beat) I am through fighting. 'Cause I got a bigger and more important match comin' up. The U.S. government. A heavier contender. 
 Do you think you're going to jail? 
 I don't know, but it's going to be a shocking and terrible fight. In fact, they might wish they let me stay in boxing. 
 Joe Frazier told me on this show he would knock you out. 
 There you go, agitatin'. (beat) You ask Smokin' Joe what he been smokin'?! Joe Frazier even dream he can whup me? He better wake up and apologize... (pause) But, if I WAS to jump in the ring with Joe, here's what you might see... (recites) Ali comes out to meet Frazier, but Frazier starts to retreat; If Frazier goes back an inch farther, he'll wind up in a ringside seat; Ali swings with a left, Ali swings with a right. Frazier keeps backin', but there's not enough room. It a matter of time before Ali lowers the boom; Now Ali lands with a right, what (MORE) 
 ALI (CONT'D) a beautiful swing, But the punch lifts Frazier clean out of the ring. Frazier's still risin', but the referee wears a frown, 'Cause he can't start countin' 'til Frazier come down. And Frazier's disappeared from view. And the crowd is getting frantic. Then our radar stations pick him up. He's somewhere over the Atlantic. Who would have thought when they came to this fight, That they would witness the launching of a black satellite? 
 ALI (CONT'D) But don't wait for they fight. 'Cause it ain't never gonna happen. You only can wonder and imagine... 
 (V.O.) You want me to buy you a drink? Ali's dad sits on a crate, painting the door of a delivery truck. He looks up...Ali is there. Emotion wells up in both men. The younger "rebelistic" son, seeing his father, who is so like him. The older hep-cat who got cheated by life of his potential and promise. In this case, his boy, his boy's name, pride and reflected glory... 
 I don't wanna fight no more.   Not with you... 
 Who dress you, Joe?   You look like Dale Evans. 
 Shut up.    Get in. 
 FRAZIER (CONT'D) What the hell you in Philly for? Philly my town. 
 To be closer to you, honey. 
 Fuck you. 
 There be two undefeated heavyweight champions! And they ain't fighting! 
 I wanna fight you! Said it a hundred times. The Man won't let you fight no more. What you complainin' to me for? 
 'Cause you gotta get behind this and we gotta do this. 
 We..."gotta" do nothin'!!! 
 You wanna get this on, Joe?     You and me? Or not?! 
 What about your license? 
 I can fight in Atlanta. 
 How's that? What about the Boxing Commission? 
 Georgia ain't got no state boxing commission. And Atlanta got a black city council; a liberal Jewish mayor, Sam something. It all set. I do a prelim in Atlanta with Jerry Quarry. But we got to get the steamroller movin' now. 
 What I got to do? 
 You announce that if I beat Quarry you give me the title shot. (puts it to him) So what you say...maaan? 
 My daddy was a sharecropper. I worked in a slaughterhouse...right on that corner. I came up from nothing. (raises fist) What I got, I got with this. And I already got the title. So I got nothing to win and everything to lose. 
 But you know you ain't the champ yet. 
 (looks at him) Yeah..."yet." (beat) All right. You beat Quarry, I'll get inna ring and fuck you up... 
 FRAZIER (CONT'D) (quieter) You need any money or anything to tide you by...? 
 (turns away) I'm fine. Thanks. 
 
 
!! 
 What you want? 
 Take me back, boss. 
 You want me to take you back? 
 I'm clean. (beat) And you a resurrection. This is God's act. Anybody love poor people and little people and fucked-up people gotta be a prophet. (MORE) 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) And the prophet is going home. You the sun. Let me live in the light. (pause) Take me with, boss. (beat) ...I'll do anything. 
 (quietly) You can't hit what you can't see. 
 (quietly) Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee. 
 ALI/BUNDINI (quietly) Rumble, young man, rumble! 
 
 
 You the man! You Superman! Ain't no kryptonite in this ring tonight! 
 QUARRY'S EYEBROW 
 
 
'S 
 (low) ...you don't need their management... 
 As-Saalam Alaikum...Brother Muhammad... 
 All praise to Allah... (a beat, and softly...) ...Alaikum Salaam... 
 (beaming) The Messenger has lifted the suspension, Muhammad. Congratulations. 
 You saying I can be a Muslim again, Herbert? 
 Yes. 
 (cold) I never stopped. Like I never stopped being champ. 
 I begged my father to reinstate you. 
 When? After I promoted Quarry fight? After I won it? 
 We can get you Frazier. 
 I already got Frazier. 
 We can get you five million dollars for Frazier. 
 Are we talking management, talking money or talking religion? 
 When you... 
 (interrupts) When I got leery and talked up how come I'm broke, then came the suspension. Now, you explain that to me, my brother...? 
 It's my father... 
 (puts a hand on his shoulder) I love the Nation, Herbert. I love Elijah Muhammad. But it don't own me. 
 ALI (CONT'D) Now, you go on out. And you make the Frazier deal. 
 My brother! 
 Yeah... 
 You b-b-becoming a Christian? Forgive and forget? 
 Muhammad, you T.K.O.'ed 'em... 
 What are you talking about, Howard? Quarry? 
 (reads) No. "The Supreme Court ruled today in the case of the United States vs. Cassius Clay, a.k.a. Muhammad Ali..." (looks up) You won an 8-0 unanimous decision. You're free. 
 I'm free. 
 What are you talking about? 
 Supreme Court set me free. 
 That's 'cause they know the king is gonna go home to his throne. And they know everybody's with you, now. And they wanna be on the RIGHT side! 
 
 Ladies and gentlemen, fifteen rounds of boxing for the heavyweight championship of the world... 
 ANNOUNCER (CONT'D) ...the contender and former heavyweight champion of the world, seeking to regain his title, from Louisville, Kentucky, Muhammad Ali!!! 
 And in the opposite corner, the current heavyweight champion of the world, Smokin' Joe Frazier...! 
 ALI'S EYES deep in his focused concentration. His attention so arrow like it reminds us of the younger man in the Liston fight...pure purpose. 
... 
 OVERHEAD:     ALI 
 (to himself) Hook's comin'. Lean back, man! Move back! WORK LEGS...! 
 
 (V.O.) Ali was out! He was out on his feet. Joe almost had him. Frazier must have thought Ali was playing possum. 'Cause Ali's a clown. Others have come in on Ali when he's playing possum and gotten knocked out. 
: 
 
 Hell of a fight, champ... 
 HANGERS-ON They stole it from you! (etc.) 
 Shut up! I lost. (louder) Get outta here... 
 Go on!   Everybody out! 
 (to Pacheco) Ferdie, take a look at this... (to Ali) It was still a hell of a fight. 
 Where's Belinda? 
 She fainted... They took her to the aid station. She's okay. 
 My hands was in sand, Angie.     My feet in water... 
 Maybe we shoulda had more time between Blin and this, you know...to get back into... 
 Woulda, shoulda, coulda... (pause) After three-and-a-half years, this...from how far back...comeback is. 
 Were you robbed? 
 I lost. You lose, you don't shoot yourself. The world goes on. 
 Joe said he didn't think you wanted to fight him again... 
 (stops) Oh, how wrong he is. 
 My God.    They killed you! 
 Get away from her.     What is that? 
 I ain't dead, baby!     C'mon. 
 CMS:   ALI 
 I can move my jaw with my tongue. He got me... 
 (concerned) It's broke. I think...I think your jaw's broke. 
 
 nods to Dundee. Dundee starts to reach. Ali snatches Angelo's hand holding the towel. Angelo's about to end the fight... 
 Ain't stoppin' nothin'...! (glares at them) Nothin' stoppin'...! 
 SECURITY - NIGHT 
 ALI - DAY 
 Now that Smokin' Joe's run out of tomato cans to beat up, I finally got Yank to commit to a rematch with you in about six months. Frazier said he'd be happy with three mil... (beat) 
 HERBERT (CONT'D) I'll fly to Jamaica and get Yank to sign right after Joe beats this big stiff. (to TV) 
 (through still-wired- together jaw) Foreman call me one time after he won the Olympics... 
 (shouting) DOWN GOES FRAZIER! DOWN GOES FRAZIER! 
 (wry) B-b-be easy gettin' a Frazier fight now. He ain't the champ of anything except getting knocked down. 
 
: 
 
 
 So. 
 So we only eked this one out. And George Foreman makes Frazier look like a sissy. 
 You see their fight? 
 You mean the Joe Frazier falling- down lesson? 
 And Foreman is 24. You are 32 years old. I don't want to see your head get turned into someone's bull's-eye. 
 ...but, you go? We're the corner, same as always. But it ain't gonna be easy. 
 (to Angelo) You think I still got the tools? 
 You got the tools, Daddy.     But they different. 
 (thinks; decides: go) Well, you better sharpen 'em up. 'Cause we goin' to Africa. 
 The motherland. From the root to the fruit. We gonna rumble...in the jungle. 
 It's time to be heavyweight champion of the world again. 
 Yeah, man! 
 "Rumble in the Jungle!"     That's the name I given it. 
: 
 Don. Zaire? Why not Antarctica? What's wrong with New York City? 
 Because you miss the significance. I dream, as Martin Luther King once dreamt, that a man could be judged by the content of his mind. This is about black men helping black men, overcoming four hundred years of racial depression to the dawn of a new day of liberation...financial and otherwise. 
 Man, you crazy. 
 Ten million dollars. With one stroke of the pen, you split the world's biggest emolumation of the history of sports! 
 FRONTAL:    ALI 
 (to Zairian Official; shouts) What are they saying, man?!!!    Why they saying that? 
 #1 They say, "Ali, boma ye. Ali, boma ye." 
 What's that mean?!   I don't understand! 
 #1 It mean...! 
 (can't hear) What?! 
 #1 (has to shout) It mean..."Ali, kill him! Ali, kill him!" 
 
 Ali, boma ye! 
 ALI (CONT'D) Ali, boma ye! 
. 
 
 (to himself) Fast. Six left jabs flash from his chest and shoulder, followed by a right hook and left and right uppercuts. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to himself) Back up, maaan... (weaves suddenly; another voice) ...you fast! 
 Ali, boma ye! 
 (repeating) Ali, boma ye George Foreman! 
 ALI (CONT'D) You out, sucker! Curious, Ali runs behind the green signs from where the kids came. 
'S 
: 
 
 (broken English) You beat them, Ali! 
 Foreman?   I kill him! 
 
 ALI (CONT'D) Shazaam!!! 
 (to himself) ...even if I die here. If it kill me, no matter what...I gotta win. 
 Howard! How many you ugly sportswriters in there got me over Foreman? Don't lie. 
 (beat) Some of us...Norman, me...are worried. How you gonna dance against George?? He's sparring with a middleweight, training to cut you off. He gets you against the ropes, he can knock you out with either hand. 
 (drops facade) What's the odds? 
 Two-and-a-half-to-one. Against. We're worried you're going to get hurt. 
 ALI - DAY 
 This'll be the biggest upset since Sonny Liston. I want all of you to write it down! This fight is no contest! 
 ALI (CONT'D) George Foreman is a big mummy. I've officially named him "The Mummy." 
 ALI (CONT'D) George punches are like "Look out, here come the left." Whomp! (stiff-armed swing) Here come the right! Whomp! Like a Mummy. But "The Mummy" can't hit what it can't see. I'm fast! Gonna dance. Be all over George. George is gonna feel he surrounded. (beat) And I done somethin' new for this fight; I done rassled with an alligator. Anticipatory laughter. They've had twelve years' experience of Ali's stand-up and know when a new routine's starting... 
 ALI (CONT'D) That's right! (laughter again; Ali almost loses it) I have rassled with an alligator. I done tussled with a whale. I done handcuffed lightning, thrown thunder in jail. That's bad! Only last week I murdered a rock. Injured a stone. Hospitalized a brick. I'm so mean, I make medicine sick. 
 Muhammad, I'm sorry. I have to ask. (he hesitates; he's sorry, but) Are you really fast enough, anymore? To beat George Foreman? Many people believe you don't have the same skills, that you are not the same man you used to be ten years ago. 
 Howard. I didn't want to talk about this, especially in front of everybody. But I talked to your wife! And she told me you're not the man you used to be...two years ago! 
 
 
 Salaam Alaikum, brothers! (raises one arm) The champ is here! 
 Here's your water. 
 Bottled water. Frozen steaks. Brought all this stuff like Africans don't have steaks... 
 You could pick up parasites... 
 They eat it. 
 You're seeing what you want to see, Muhammad... 
 Mobutu eats it... 
 Mobutu is taking care of Mobutu and stealing all the wealth and sending it to Switzerland... 
 (pause) So? What's that do with any of why we here? 
 (she doesn't get it) We're here 'cause Don King got Mobutu to put up ten million dollars. Don King don't give a damn about Africa. He worse than Herbert. 
 Here come "Herbert." 
 Yeah. 'Cause where was he when we was broke and borrowing money? And Bundini and all them that "love you"? Disappeared, is where they were. (on a roll) All over you when you got it and drop off you when you don't... 
 Money? I do "money-making" whenever I want. Money is easy. 
 (running on) And Don King fit right in...that double-breasted hipster is now a dashiki-wearing rip-off. 
 Don King delivered the first black- promoted championship fight in Africa! 
 Don King talks black, lives white and thinks green! Why you defending him and "brother" Herbert? (against me) 
 'Cause clean-cut Muslims parading on the South Side of Chicago don't get this done! I got to put honkeys with connections and bad- ass niggers to it, too. 
 (not hearing) And now they got you up against George Foreman. Do they give a damn you could get killed? 
 That what this is? Think I gonna lose? Puttin' doubt on me? 
 (tears flow) I think: why is my Muslim husband letting himself get strung up on a cross...? It means, "tell me." 
 BELINDA (CONT'D) Maryum is sick. Maybe I oughta go back to Chicago and look after her. 
 Sure. 
 I'll be back before the fight. (sarcastic) If that's all right, my husband... 
, 
 
 (over the drumming) Champ! Champ! George had an accident. 
 (suspicious) What are you talking about? 
 Got cut. Right above his right eye. His sparring partner's elbow. Split it open, so... 
 Can he fight? 
 Not for six weeks. 
 Are you tryin' to pull something, Don? Ali wants his title. And he wants it back in Zaire. George leaves, he ain't comin' back. George don't like it here. 
 How right you are, my suspicious and short Italian brother. And my fiduciary responsibility to this first all-black promotion is like a garden in the African sun. It must grow! It must bloom! It cannot flower in the gloom and shade of postponement to some dome. Like the Astrodome, the Super-dome, any dome outta Zaire, where it be deprived of light and bled of water. 'Cause what gonna bleed...is money. A hemorrhage of cash. (sees it all) ...blood on the floor. Double hotel costs. Double travel costs. Airplanes. Food and beverage... 
 (rhetorical) What do you expect us to do, Don? 
 (moves close to Ali) Muhammad. Find a way to get George to stay. Be Moses in reverse: do NOT let my people go! Stay the fuck right here, in Egypt, if you'll pardon my Swahili. 
 L-l-l-lingala. 
 What? 
 Lingala.   They s-s-s-speak Lingala. 
 Who cares? 
 (pissed, dissed big) If George goes? You forfeit five million. You crawl back to Cincinnati. You ain't promotin' a charity raffle... 
 (irrepressible) If George goes? George goes, my champion, I will get you Joe Frazier. Ali-Frazier III...the fight everybody want to see. INT. PRESS CONFERENCE 
 (interrupts) Truth is...George knocked hisself out. 
 ALI (CONT'D) That's right. He did three rounds. Knew he was gonna lose to Muhammad Ali and knocked hisself out. And I predict that whenever the fight is set, he might not show up! 
 (double entendre) You bad! 
 I'm a bad man! 
 Ain't no doubt about it. 
 And you tell the same thing to George. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to King) I been watchin' you! I heard you. I know he's your man. I know you got him picked. But the man's in trouble. (MORE) 
 ALI (CONT'D) The whole world was gonna know. But, now, he ain't gonna show. That's why he knocked hisself out when he was training. 
 (laughs to dismiss Ali) We will reschedule the fight, and to ensure George is ready, we are thinking of postponing from September 24th to October 30th. 
 What about the concert, Don? 
 That would go off as planned on September 22nd and 23rd. 
 (skeptical) Uh-huh. I want all helicopters guarded! Private boats. Private jets. I want the airport -- I'm serious -- I want President Mobutu and all his paratroopers. Mobutu and all his paratroopers. I want all of you "Zaireans" to be on guard! Watch all strange boats tryin' to slip away! They might be takin' him out. 
 The bus station. It's Ali kidding on the square. A serious point delivered not seriously to be taken seriously. 
 Yeah. Watch the bus station. Watch everything! Elephant caravans. He might sneak out by elephant. 
 What you say? 
 I ain't talkin' to you! 
 (to King) Hey!!! 
 ALI (CONT'D) Don't talk to Angelo like that! Don't you talk to him like that ever again!!! 
 ALI (CONT'D) You think you're callin' these shots, Don? You're not. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to King) They know! (segues into a routine) All those ladies out there know. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (mock demagoguery) They know I'm ready! I see fear in the eyes of his followers! I see fear! This is the fight that Muhammad Ali was supposed to be ended. The myth of Muhammad was supposed to fall! (hits the table with his fist; glares at King) Supposed to be my destruction! (French voices and laughter, understated) They miscalculated. They misjudged. They got it...wrong. 
 (V.O.) Say, girl...! 
 ALI (CONT'D) C'mere.   I know you? 
 I don't think so. 
 What's your name? 
 Veronica Porche. 
 Like the sports car. 
 (laughs) Yes. 
 But with a little something extra. (beat) Veronica, I know you now. C'mere, sit down. 
 ALI (CONT'D) You with Don? 
 Don brought me here, but I'm not "with"...anybody. 
 Where you from? 
 L.A. But my people are from Louisiana. We're Creole. So I'm African, French, Spanish, my mother's grandfather was Jewish. 
 (looking at her admiringly) Well...they all came together real nice. 
 You know... (hesitating; low) ...I'm glad you said what you did. You made sure this fight stays here. 
 All them writers in there think Foreman gonna...kill me! (eyes go wide) What you think? 
 Ali, boma ye. 
 ...she's an African "succubus." Means witch doctor. 
 Succubus? Suck my dick. They ain't room in Africa for more than one witch doctor. And that's B'dini. 
 You been to Hong Kong?   Taiwan? Thailand? 
 No. 
 I can't go there. All the ladies out there from Indonesia, Japan, Hawaii, India... (high-pitched voice, imitating female fans) "Ali-i-i-e-e-e! Ali-e-e-e! Oh, Muhammad Al-i-i-i!" (speaks in faux foreign language, imitating female fans; to Bingham) You seen those people from Thailand? I was in Bangkok -- I couldn't walk. (laughter; hangs his head) I couldn't...I just couldn't do nothin'. "Get me outta this country!" (laughter) The women were so pretty... 
 'B-b-b-bout Hong Kong, man?!   You know what I heard? 
 (interrupts) Ladies in Thailand, their hair comes down to their knees...and they about Veronica's complexion...and they bad! (MORE) 
 ALI (CONT'D) But they ain't nothin' like the "sisters." (holds Veronica's hands, looks deep into her eyes) Ain't NOTHIN' like the sisters! 
 Champ... 
 (to Veronica) Let's go for a ride. 
 REVERSE:   ALI 
 
 
 ALI + VERONICA 
 So why you glad we still here? 
 Holdin' this in Africa make people proud. All over the world. They're proud of you. Anybody can fight in Vegas. 
 That's one job.    I got two... 
 ALI (CONT'D) (melodramatic) ...gotta whup George! 
 Islamic faith help you to that? 
 Listen, girl, as a Muslim, I am busted out and failed in the eyes of God. I shoulda discovered Islam at 50! 'Cause I am weak on women. They take my eyes and my heart follow...causing me to be a lovin' husband and a terrible husband...! (looks down at her, intensely) ...green eyes and cocoa skin...? (feigns wobbly legs) ...okay, rest of me, let's go!! 
 (to himself) Faster! Faster! 
 (shouts) 
! 
 You can't lead a right hand.   Not at him! 
 Why not? 
 Too long...to get it there. Man, I mean, to think you could hit him with a right lead...it's insulting... Nobody would lead a right... 
 
 I got him! Lock him up. 
 (laughs) Hey, hold up, chump!   Make this chump turn me loose. 
 SADLER (CONT'D) This is my wife, Irene... 
 Hey! Look! Look at George Foreman's trainer, feelin' me up on purpose! On the side, to see if I'm in shape! 
 Can I have your autograph? 
 We'll, you ain't gonna find no fat! Watch out!! 
 (lunges for wife's note pad) Give me that thing! 
 (breaking through) Muhammad. Give her an Ali button! 
 No, you ain't. (concedes) All right, give my wife an Ali button. 
 She's gotta put it on. 
 Give my wife one. 
 Bo'dini, you got Ali buttons? 
 "George" buttons is all I got. In my bedroom! All over the bed! Everywhere! To remind me...of all of ya'. All of ya'! Reminds me of all ya'! 
 (in French) Pardon. Vous êtes de l'ambassade des Etats-Unis? Vous avez une prédiction? 
 (English translation) Excuse me. You are from the U.S. Embassy? Do you have a prediction? 
 (in French) (caught; smiles) Je suis avec l'Agence américane d'informations. Il ne m'est pas permis d'exprimer mes préférences entre deux citoyens des Etats-Unis. 
 (English translation) (caught; smiles) I'm with the U.S. Information Agency. I'm not allowed to take favorites among two United States citizens... 
 (meaning Sadler) He gone? 
 Yeah. 
 Hello, Muhammad. Bingham.    Mr. Cosell. 
 (tight) Hi...Mrs. Ali. 
 When did you get in? 
 Just now. Muhammad, may I have a word with you, please? 
 What is going on? 
 You know what's going on. (it's not the first time) 
 But I don't have to have it thrown in my face. I don't have to read about it and have people call me up on the phone about it... 
 I didn't mean for it to come out... 
 Oh, hell, Muhammad, you got no discretion. You never did. You humiliate me! 
 BELINDA (CONT'D) I clean for you. I cook for you. I feel every punch you take. 
 I know that. 
 Then why you got to be visible with women? 
 I didn't mean for it to be... 
 I live with the casual ones. (gestures to Veronica's clothing) But this, this...I can't hold it together anymore. 
 I don't want to hurt you. It's wrong. You're a good wife to me. 
 Then why do you disrespect me this way?! 
 I respect you.   I always respect you. 
 Do you love her? 
 BELINDA (CONT'D) Do you want to marry her? 
 I follow my heart. 
 "You're following your heart"? (sarcasm falls away) That's what you do. No matter what anybody says. Or thinks. Or what it does... (pause) And what happens now? 
 I fight George. (after a beat) I didn't come this far to quit. 
 Neither of us did. 
 Belinda? 
 BINGHAM (CONT'D) You can't beat him. You can't beat him, 'cause you can't not love him. 
 
 (in French) Invite Monsieur Idi to join me now... The Banker? The American? 
 (from doorway) Countdown! Countdown! 
 Countdown is on, bro.   Five minutes. 
 
 Thanks to Allah... (praying) 
 (shouts) Four minutes! 
 Give us a moment. Alone. (off Herbert's look) Hey. This is my religion! 
 Why? 
 Where you at? 
 (looks up) Foreman ain't no mummy. He's knocked out eight out of eleven before the end of the third round. He the most dangerous fighter I ever fought. 
 I'd worry if I was hearin' anything else. 
 And I can't WAIT! 
 Three minutes! 
 Dance.   That's the most important... 
 
 (whispers) Forget every battle of man against man, of mind against mind, of soul against soul. This is the one. This is the greatest. 
 BUNDINI (CONT'D) This is it. 
 Two minutes! 
 The prophet's come back to claim his own! Get the pretender off that throne! 
 BUNDINI/ALI Rumble, young man, rumble! It's the "Rumble in the Jungle"! 
 (shouts) One minute! 
 George is playing prima donna.   He wants to make you wait. 
 CLOSER:   ALI 
 ALI'S FEET 
 
 Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman! 
 
, 
 
 Now, both of you know the rules. When I step back, I want a good, clean break. (Clayton keeps going) No hitting below the belt, no kidney punches, no... 
 Motherfucker, you 'bout to discover you ain't nothin'. 
 Ali, be quiet! 
 CLAYTON (CONT'D) No kidney punches. Now... 
 (past the ref; eyeballing George) You been hearin' about me for years. All your life you been hearin' about Muhammad Ali. Now you gotta face me. 
 Ali, I'll disqualify you. Now, I want a good, clean, sportsman fight... 
 (to Foreman) You never should have come to Africa. 
 (blows up) All right!! (beat) Now go to your corners and come out fighting when you hear the bell, and may the best man...win... 
. 
 (to himself) Legs heavy...air's heavy...like sand... 
 ...keep moving. Don't let him put you into the corner. Stay off the rope! 
 
 
 That all you got...?   That it? 
 
 ALI'S FACE 
 ANGELO + BUNDINI going crazy in the corner! 
 Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Dance! 
 ALI'S EYES 
 ALI'S EYES 
 (to himself) There is nothin'... Nothin'! (another Foreman hook lands) ...I cannot take. 
 ALI (CONT'D) Thought you was bad! 
 ALI'S CORNER 
 Dance, dance! 
 Get off the ropes!   What are you doin'?! 
 (it gets quiet; to himself:) Here come George's "murder" round. (refers to Round Three) 
 CLOSER:   ALI 
 
 George!    Show me something. 
 ALI (CONT'D) Where's your punch, man?! 
 BUNDINI/DUNDEE (O.S.) Ali, get off the ropes! Stick 'em! Jab! Off the ropes! 
 
'S 
 
 ALI'S EYES 
 (calmly) ...been here before. 
 (V.O.) (distant echoes) Ali, move! (beat) Dance, champ! 
 (to himself) Open the door, Richard...outta this room... Put on your coat, man...get out... 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to himself) Think my fight's over...? That... (to George) ...all you got? That the hardest you hit? 
 ALI (CONT'D) C'mon, chump!!! 
 ALI'S CORNER 
 (panicked) Get off the goddamn ropes!! 
 Took somethin' away from him, Angie, that round... 
 You gotta move! Stick and MOVE! 
 (to himself) They don't know what's happenin'. 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to Jim Brown) You bet the wrong horse! He can't fight no better than you can act! 
 
 
 (to himself) Take it! Terrify him with what you can take... 
 
 (hisses to George) Eight more rounds... You runnin' outta gas? 
 WIDER:     GEORGE 
 (to himself to George) ...can't let you get that second wind which you don't know is out there for you. (MORE) 
 ALI (CONT'D) (talking to George in his head) Want the title...wear the heavyweight crown? (to himself) Jaw broke? Nose smashed? Face busted? You ready to die? Is that you? (towards George) 'Cause you gonna meet a man who will die before he let you win. 
 
 
 
'S 
 ALI'S EYES 
 (to himself) Now... 
'S 
 CLOSER:   FOREMAN 
 ALI (CONT'D) (to himself) RIGHT NOW! 
 
 
 
 (in French) Ce soir, le Zaire a été le sujet central dans le tous les centres européens. Félicitations, Monsieur le Président pour la vie. 
 (English translation) Zaire was the center of the world tonight in every banking capital, all over Europe. Congratulations, President for Life. 
 Yes. (then in Lingala to servant) 
 What's on the menu...? 
 (low; about them) I don't know what's gonna happen. (beat) Maan, everything is crazy. 
 ...I didn't come this far to quit. 
 WIDE:     ALI 
 You think you got a chance, chump? Now you in trouble. 
 ALI (CONT'D) You even dream of beating me?   You better wake up and apologize! Kid throws a punch.     Ali collapses to his knees. 
 ALI (CONT'D) 
