 
 
. 
. 
 You look so peaceful from up here. 
 UBERMAN (CONT'D) Looks like Roxanne's in trouble again. 
 I hate the outfits. I mean, I get it: we're all supposed to be "masterminds" - very clever. (MORE) 3.(cont'd) I just feel stupid. I mean, what the hell did Einstein really do anyway? 
 Theory of relativity. 
 Well, you'd think he'd invent a wool sweater that didn't itch so much. 
 The real Einstein once said, "God does not play dice with the world." He was right, because the world is MY dice. Is that understood? 
 (gasping for air) Yes, sir. 
 Alright, then - clean slate. Do we have the girl? 
 Yes, sir. She fell into our trap just like you knew she would. 
 Reporters are a curious lot, and easily manipulated. 
 Alright, let's not keep the lady waiting. 
 
 (O.S.) Miss Ritchi, we meet again. 
 You didn't need to turn around like that. I can recognize the stench of failure. 
 I trust you gentlemen know the very sassy Roxanne Ritchi, highly regarded investigative journalist who some say has a more than friendly relationship with our super powered foe Uberman. And Miss Ritchi, I trust you've already met my new crew: The Mad Geniuses! 
 Looks like a real group of winners. At the risk of sounding cliche', you'll never get away with this. 
 In a way, I already have. 
 We go through this every time. You kidnap me to get to Uberman, he immediately finds your hideout, escapes whatever lame trap you've come up with, and takes you and your cronies to jail. I propose we just save everybody some heartache this time by YOU letting me go, and ME forgetting this whole thing ever happened? 
 What about my revenge? 
 We can say it was wasting everyone's time. 
 You have a wicked tongue. I hope you rid yourself of that when you're my queen. 
 I'm sorry. What makes you think I would want to be your queen? 
 Power corrupts absolutely, Miss Ritchi. And when I have ultimate power over this city, I have absolutely every intention of corrupting you with it. 
 Sir! 
 (annoyed) What is it!? 
 (on monitor) Master Mind! 
 (O.S.) Over here, old friend. 
 What's the matter, miss your old jail cell? 
 You can't possibly believe this will work. 
 We're now at minimum safe distance, master. 
 Excellent. Stop here, I like this view. 
 Twenty seconds until impact. 
 Any last words? 
 Ten seconds to impact. 
 PLATO (CONT'D) Nine... 
 PLATO (CONT'D) Eight... 
 (genuinely concerned) What's going on? 
 (straining) Hold...on...a second. 
 Seven... 
 SON OF A BITCH!! 
 What did he just say? 9. 
 Six......Five... 
 What kind of trick is this? 
 Like you don't know. These bars are made of copper, aren't they? 
 Four... 
 Yeah, so? 
 You figured out my weakness, damn you. I CAN'T BEND COPPER! 
 Three... 
 Your weakness is copper? 
 Two...one. 
 I don't think even he could have survived that. 
 Whoa! Is it me or did you just finally destroy Uberman? 
 (carefully skeptical) Well...let's not get ahead of ourselves. 
 Look, there's something in the sky, coming this way. 
 Uberman! 
. 
 I KNEW IT! PREPARE YOURSELVES! HE'S GONNA RAM US!!! 
! 11. 
 Uberman? 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) You killed him! 
 You did it! 
 ...so I did. 
 I mean, I know you always wanted to. I mean, all the schemes all the plots - I never thought you'd actually be capable of it. 
 This is history. Every villain and lackey in the history of villains and lackeys dream of this moment, but when does it actually EVER happen? 
 Good lord...You do all realize what we get to do now, don't you? 12. 
 We get to go on a crime wave. 
!" 
 
." 
 A 
 (absentmindedly) Oh, right. 
. 
 It's a sport of honor, focus and grace. Honor the ball, focus on the pins, release the ball not hard and fast, but as if you were releasing a baby dove. 
 Okay, do something like that - but center it more. 14. 
 Tell me how my form looks, honey. 
 Oh, it's lookin' good. It's lookin' REAL good. 
 (O.S.) Hal, I want to see you in my office! 
 Now! 
 You're fired. Leave your shirt and locker key. 
 Fired? Are you going to tell me why? 
 Showing up to work late. Showing up to work late drunk. Sexually harassing customers. Stealing from the register. 
 Vinnie, I don't know where you're getting these accusations - 
 Oh, which one do you supposedly have here? 
 This is all of them at once. 
 
 I've got this one, Benny. So, Cinderella. Can I help you find your glass slipper? 
 Yeah, I'm looking for a seven. 
 (with a leer) Seven - Well, maybe I could interest you in something in an EIGHT. Namely, me. 
 Lesbo. 
 From the angle of the camera, I can see where you might have gotten the wrong idea. Listen, Vinnie, I don't think you've thought this through. If you fire me, who's gonna be captain of the alley's bowling team? 16. 
 Um, I don't know. Maybe somebody who can actually bowl. You guys have never won a game. I hired you because you said you were on the pro circuit. 
 No, I said I WILL BE on the pro circuit. 
 Please, a loser like you will never amount to anything. 
 Wow...If that's how you feel...I guess we should then talk about what kind of severance I'm gonna get. 
 Hey...what about my ball? 
 Thank-you! 
 It's...um...It's good to be back. Thanks for everyone's cards and concerns. I really appreciated it - now I'm ready to climb back on the horse. 
 Someone die or something? 
 (cursing himself) Oh, Jesus. 
 It's okay. 
 Come on into my office, sweetie. 
 Can we get this woman some water for God's sake? (to Rebecca) I gave you two months off. What're you doing back? People are gonna think I'm a slave driver. 18. 
 Aren't you? 
 Yeah, but I don't want people to think it. 
 Frank, listen. I want to go back to work. I NEED to go back to work. 
 ...You're hysterical, aren't you? 
. 
 What're you doing? 
 Keeping you warm before you go into shock. (toward the open door) DO I HAVE SLICE OPEN A CAMEL HUMP TO GET A GLASS OF WATER AROUND HERE? 
 It was a traumatic experience. Yes, everyone knows Uberman and me were...close. But what I really need - what would really make me better is getting back to work. 
 Well, that's going to be... 
 I thought you'd be happy to have me back. 19. 
 Oh, we are. Honey, nothing makes us happier than to have our girl back, but... 
 Yes? 
 Things have sorta...changed. 
 In three weeks? 
 Listen, I'm not one who likes to open up wounds - especially ones that are just starting to scab, but you were sorta our go to girl for the exclusive on Uberman. And now that he's gone...I moved Brad into your anchor spot. 
 (disgusted) Brad? Brad Helms? The man is an idiot. 
 It's the suits. They think it's time to switch things up. 
 Oh, because they can't use me to get the big story. 
 C'mon, Roxie. Using is in the nature of what we do. They used you, you used Uberman. Everybody's happy. 
 (defensive) I didn't use him. 
 Oh, I didn't mean that. I know you two were in love or something. My bad. 
 We were. 20. 
 And that's great. 
 Very in love. 
 Okay. So, where are they going to move me if Brad has my spot? 
 ...Human interest. 
 Bake sales and pet stories. 
 I told them I wouldn't be surprised if you just upped and quit. You busted your ass for that desk. 
 I'll take it. 
 What? 
. 21. 
 (O.S.) We now return to "The Hero of our Hearts: The Uberman story." 
 Just robbed the diamond exchange. 
 (feigning pleasure) Great, great. Put it on the pile. 
 Anything else today? 
 No. 
 (cheerfully) Sir, the new reactor is installed. 
 Do you want to throw the switch? I know how you love to start reactors. 22. 
 Maybe later. 
 (nervously) Sir, I can't help but notice that you've been...a little down lately. 
 When I want your opinion I'll beat it out of you. 
 Yes, sir, I know, but please forgive my impertinence. It's just that you seem to have lost your lust for our profession. You've stopped going on jobs and spend most of your time watching Uberman specials. 
 I have defeated my greatest enemy. I have free reign over Metro City. I have more wealth than a thousand Sultans. I've achieved all I have worked for...so why am I so unhappy? 
. 
 I mean, my father, god rest his evil and tormented soul, raised me straight from the test tube to be a symbol of evil. (MORE) 23.(cont'd) And, I have accomplished something he had only dreamed about - the destruction of Metro City's champion. I tell you, I've always lived with this unquenchable thirst. I thought it was to make him proud or to get absolute power. But now that I've pretty much accomplished both, I am at a loss. 
 ...I sort of have a theory about all that. 
 (snippy) Oh, really? 
 Well, for one thing, maybe Uberman was more important to you than you thought. 
 He was a worthy rival. Sometimes I wonder, did he consider me his evil equal or was I just an annoying, little gnat to him? ...What's the second part? 
 I think you sort of have a thing for Roxanne Ritchi. 
 YOU WORM! HOW DARE YOU! WHERE WOULD YOU GET SUCH A NOTION? 
 Sir, your plans always involve Ms. Ritchi either being kidnapped or placed in danger. If that's not love, I don't know what is. It's the grown up equivalent of dipping her pigtails in the ink well. Don't you see? She's the one treasure that's always escaped you. 
 #1 I can't believe you came back so soon. 
 #2 Are you sure it's not TOO SOON, honey? 
 I just wanted to get back to work. 
 #3 What we need to do is get you back on the saddle...the love saddle. 
 #3 It's been three weeks. 
 #2 She just lost the love of her life, Grace. 
 I keep trying to tell people it wasn't really like that. Uberman and I - We were kinda having problems. We broke up. 
 #1 You broke up with Uberman! 
 #3 You must have REALLY, REALLY high standards. I mean, you were dating a god. I mean, what's it take? 
 Maybe someone who's a little more aware of his faults. Someone a little more sensitive. 25. 
 #3 Right. Someone who listens, sexy but attainable with cute little cheeks like a hamster and heartbreak in his eyes. 
 #3 She wants John Cusack. 
 #2 The actor? 
 #3 No, the famous pediatrist - Yes, the actor. Ever since we were teenagers, Roxanne's totally had the hots for him. 
 Well, until he miraculously comes walking into my life, I'm just going to take a little reflection time for myself. 
. 
! 
 Who the hell is John Cusack? 
 The Fifth Avenue Renovation Project, which I championed, will breath new life into the downtown area. New life means new jobs and new revenue. 
 Councilman, is it true that your brother-in-law's construction company won the contract for this project? 
 Well...er...yes, but...look I'm not here to answer a lot of crazy questions... 
 
 
 
 Thank you! Thank you for saving me and my baby! 
 (not knowing what she's talking about) Huh? 
 HAL (CONT'D) There, there. 
 HAL (CONT'D) Okay, we better...well, I hear these little guys smother easy. 
 What's it feel like to be a hero? 
 Well...I'm just a man doing what men do. You're Roxanne Ritchi, aren't you? 
 Were you scared? 28. 
 Scared? Who had time? 
 
 John Cusack, huh? So all I have to do is have a cute puppy dog stare, be willing to make a fool of myself and - Oh, REMOVE BOTH MY BALLS. 
 Please, get a hold of yourself. 
 Shit. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Oh the humanity - it was a Venti. 
 (stunned) You're...you're. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Yes, it's me. John Cusack...the actor. 29. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Hey, is that Shelly? Wait, I think remember something from that one - Let's see: "My head is screaming `I want you and need you' - my heart it keeps reaching to see you and feel you - yet in the end, I'm alone once again." Wow, I scare even myself. I'm sorry. I'm just really into poetry. Probably because I'm so sensitive and always going to great lengths to express myself. But enough about me. Can I fill you up? 
 (captivated) ...Yes. (catching herself) I mean, excuse me? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Can I fill you up? Your coffee. 
 Right. 
 I did have a boyfriend - until fairly recently. 
 I'm sorry - this is so surreal! 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Yeah, they charge way too much at these places - Now back to your boyfriend. I'm interested and compassionate. I want to know about you. 30. 
 Things were complicated. He was a man married to his work. There was...there was a lot of competition in his line of business. I'm sure you know what that's like. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Sure. In my business, one thing I have is RIVALS. For example, mine is...uh...Lou Ferr...igno. 
 ...The body-builder who used to play The Hulk on TV? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Did he? Well, we're always up for the same roles. Did your boyfriend have someone like that? A particular rival that was always getting his goat - so to speak? 
 Well...one rival in particular seemed to get more of his attention than I ever did. But enough about my problems. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" NO, TELL ME MORE!!! 
 Right, well, he seemed to need him more than he needed me. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" How do you mean? 31. 
 It was conflict he thrived on. He always said he wouldn't know what to do with himself if Master - I mean, this guy were gone. It was like he needed it, like oxygen. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" (almost to himself) I think I finally understand...The only logical answer is to recreate that rivalry - or if that's impossible, create one of equal structure. That's it! 
 What? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Oh, sorry, sorry. Just rehearsing for a part...where I play a man who talks to himself at inappropriate times. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" I have to go right now, but I'd really like to see you again - if that's alright. 
 I'd love that. 
 Got her nose! 
 I've got it! 32. 
 I've got it! 
 It's plain and simple. Extraordinary minds need extraordinary stimulation. Without that stimulus they wither and die. Therefore, there is only one logical conclusion: I must create a new superhero. 
 Yeah, maybe that's not such hot idea... 
 (ignoring him) Prepare for Operation Superhero Genesis! 
 Prepare the subject. 
 I feel fine. Just a little sticky, but aside from that everything's completely - 
 Okay then. 
 And this one? 
 We attached gills to him. He can breath under water. 
 Ah. Does he have extraordinary strength? 
 Well...no. 
 Can he fly? 
 No. 
 Resilient to weapons fire? 
 No. 
 He just breathes under water, then. 
 Ah...yeah. 34. 
 Plato, the radioactive spider, please. 
 Ow! 
 Anything, Stenwick? 
 (shaken) No. Ah...sir, I didn't know this was about spiders. I have a pretty severe case of arachnophobia. 
 We're gonna need more venom. 
 This has proven to be a challenge. I just don't know what I want. What do I want? 35. 
 Yeah, well, it sounds like what you want is Uberman. 
 That's it! Why make a copy when the real thing will do? 
 I was just kidding, sir. In case you forgot, you actually burned Uberman alive. 
 Then we'll make a new one. Plato, bring me the box! 
 
 Behold - Uberessence. The very thing that gave Uberman his superhuman powers. 36. 
 Where the hell did you get that? 
 Oh, I shot him with a power sucking gun and had this idea to use this to clone a whole army of evil Ubermen. I'm not sure why I never got around to following up with that. 
 I believe he defeated you before you could, master. 
 ...Right. Man, he was good! 
 You want another volunteer, sir? 
 Not another volunteer driven by the need for personal gain. Somebody else, somebody pure. 
 ...who risked his own life to save that of a young mother and her child. 
 Please, please, you're embarrassing me. I saw someone in need and I helped them. What more can we ask of ourselves. I ask you, what more? 
 Yeah, sir. This guy is a real piece of work. He used to teach bowling at Kingpin's. 
 (into phone) A modest profession to brilliantly hide his true heroic nature. I love it. 
 Then you are absolutely going to love this - 
 - He volunteers at a school for the blind. 
 He volunteers. He doesn't ask for any reward for his deeds. The fates are shining down on me. This Mr. Stewart is truly an unselfish soul. 
 You greedy little bastard. I already gave you a twenty. 
 Hey, you want me to play along? Then pay up, bitch! 38. 
 Fine, but you better be convincing. 
 Here she comes, go to work. 
 (weeping) Why can't I see! Why God? 
 Hey, Peter. C'mon champ, let me look at you. 
 You know, in life we're all given no more than we can bear. This happened to you maybe because you were meant to rise above it - Maybe to be an inspiration to the other little Peteys out there. 
 You really think so, Hal? 
 Hey, does it LOOK like I'm lying? Now c'mon, go feel your way to class before you get your little butt suspended. 
 Petey, wait a minute. 
 Don't run into anything! 
 I think I've seen enough, sir. This is your guy. 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Then return to base. We have much work to do. 
 (obviously playing it up for the woman's benefit) Oh, there it is again. This is really getting embarrassing now. 
 ATTRACTIVE   WOMAN Oh my God! It's you!   You're the man who saved that woman   and her baby the other day! It is   you, isn't it? 
. 40. 
 (to Attractive Woman) Oh, crap. You got me. 
#1 Let me tell you something. That was just about the bravest damn thing I've ever witnessed. (he turns to the rest of the bar) Hey, everybody! This guy's the hero from 
! 
 
#1 I want to give you something. 
 TRUCKER#1 (CONT'D) Lost my whole platoon. They were a lot a good boys, a lot of good boys. That was just the way things were in "The Grenada." I'd rather a real hero have this. 
 Hey, you're on TV again. 
 TELEVISION - CONTINUOUS 
 This just in. Upon a second look at that tape from this morning, which we'll now replay for you, it appears it was not the heroic act it first seemed to be. 
 I guess that looks kinda bad. 
 There he is, boss. 
 Now, we're sure this won't kill him? 
 Yes, sir. He'll just feel a slight electrical shock. 
 Good. 
 Slight electrical shock? 
 God, I hate the weather in this city. 
 Follow him. 
 You don't look so good, man. 
 I don't feel good. I was struck by freaking lightening. 
 HAL (CONT'D) AAAAAAHHHHH! You can talk? 
 No, you're just hallucinating. By the way, we're out of orange juice. 
 
! 
 Man... 
 
 HAL'S FACE 
 HAL (CONT'D) Oh, God! 
 HAL (CONT'D) Oh, God! 
 HAL (CONT'D) Oh, God! 
 Wait! 
 HAL (CONT'D) Whoa, whoa, whoa! 
 HAL (CONT'D) Something's not right here. 
 HAL (CONT'D) Wake up! Wake up, Hal! 
! 
 HAL (CONT'D) Okay, okay. Let's get it together, man. 
 HAL (CONT'D) This is just some sort of...episode. It will pass, it will pass. 
 HAL (CONT'D) Well, not too fast I hope. 
 HAL (CONT'D) Yes, fast, fast! 
 HAL (CONT'D) I think I need to go home. 
 Welcome to your second birth, Hal Stewart. 
 "PAT MORITA" Perfect. 
 (O.S.) A man will usually find that if he drinks from a bottle, eventually, the bottle drinks from him. 
 Who are you!? 47. 
 I am the guide on your journey. Fate has chosen you to be it's champion. 
 Thank God. It was a dream. Man, I must be losing it. 
 "PAT MORITA" (O.S.) You know you're out of orange juice? 
 Jesus! This isn't happening, this isn't happening. 
 "PAT MORITA" Calm. All things must be filtered through calmness. 
 Bullshit! Sometimes it's best to freak out. 
 "PAT MORITA" I think we must work on your attitude first. 
 Look I'm gonna call the cops in about two seconds if you don't get out of here. 48. 
 "PAT MORITA" Are you calm now? 
 Yeah, I'm okay. 
 "PAT MORITA" Good, because we've got a lot of work to do. 
 What the hell was that for? 
 "PAT MORITA" Rule number one: expect the unexpected. 
 Can you just tell me what this is all about? 
 "PAT MORITA" The heavens are not in the habit of bestowing a gift such as this to just anyone. You are being rewarded for being a man of great moral fortitude with an unwavering belief in humanity. 
 That's me alright. 
 "PAT MORITA" I am to train you so you may fulfill your destiny to defeat the great menace to Metro City: Master Mind. 
 We're are we going? 49. 
 "PAT MORITA" To train. 
 "PAT MORITA" Strength is just as much in the mind as it is the muscle. Remember, both need to be exercised. 
 I'M LIFTING A FREAKING CAR!!! 
 "PAT MORITA" Hey, Corky? You listening? 
 Yeah, work both muscles. 
 "PAT MORITA" Trust me. 
 What are you doing!? 
 "PAT MORITA" An invulnerability test. Something wrong? 
 Uh...yeah. I would prefer not to get shot. Do not fire that thing! 
 "PAT MORITA" You're bulletproof. 
 Okay, do you know that for sure? 
 "PAT MORITA" I do now. 
 You suck. 
 Ice Man, I got a bogie on my tail. Two Russian Migs coming in hard and fast. 
 "PAT MORITA" Hey! 
 What? 
 "PAT MORITA" What did I tell you? Stomach down, hands up. 
 God, I feel so gay. 
 "PAT MORITA" (in Master Mind voice) What is it? 51. 
 (V.O.) John? 
 
! 
 "PAT MORITA" (in Cusack voice) Yes, it's John Cusack. 
 (V.O.) Hi, it's Roxanne. Listen, I...I really enjoyed talking with you the other day. 
 "PAT MORITA" ...As did I. 
 (V.O.) Great. God, I feel really silly, and if you have a lot going on I totally understand. But, I was wondering if you maybe wanted to have lunch. 
 "PAT MORITA" (excited) I'd love to! 
 (V.O.) Great. How does the park sound, around noon-ish? 
 "PAT MORITA" Sure! 
 (V.O.) Great, see you then. 52. 
 WHOOOOA! Man, that is so cool. It's like fly - Oh my God, I almost said it was like flying. 
 "PAT MORITA" For the rest of the day I want you to continue to practice your flying posture. 
 Why, where're ya going? 
 "PAT MORITA" ...To do something...mysterious ...and Asian. 
 Say no more, bro. I'll just keep at it, then. 
 How's your sandwich? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" It's quite delicious. 
 Hope you don't think I'm too forward. Some men are intimidated when a woman asks them out. I just find you really easy to talk to. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" And I you. 
 You know, you're not at all like you are in the movies. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" I'm not? 53. 
 Yeah. I don't know - You have this strange, refined way of speaking. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" I do? That is most interesting. 
 Anyway, when we were talking the other day I just felt, even though we only talked for a couple of hours, that we've known each other for years. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" I know just what you mean. 
 You know what? This sandwich is disgusting. 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) Of course I already ate half of it. I wonder what that says about my character? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" It means you don't give up on a sandwich. You see that it has potential, and you give it every chance to be all it can be. 
 Thanks, but knowing me, I was probably projecting my expectations of what a lunch should be on the sandwich. It might have been okay at first, but I just made it bitter. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Is that what happened with your last sandwich - I mean, boyfriend? 54. 
 When I look back, I probably shouldn't of expected so much from him. He was already a giving person. You know, one of those go out and save the world types. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" I've run into a few. 
 I was selfish, I guess. I didn't want to share him with anybody else. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" It sounds like he was a special man. 
 They broke the mold. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Perhaps not. 
 What's the "T" stand for? 
 "PAT MORITA" Titan. 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 "PAT MORITA" It's from Roman mythology. Zeus's father...oh, just go with it. You look perfect. 
 I don't think this mask is big enough. Are you sure no one is gonna recognize me? 55. 
 "PAT MORITA" It's fine, just don't slouch. It's all in the posture. 
 Alright folks, this is a robbery. Nobody moves - yadda, yadda, yadda... 
 The safe. Let's go. 
 Okay, just don't hurt anyone. 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
 Well, boys, there's no need for all this just to get the free toaster. 
 What are you suppose to be? 
 Justice. 
 Well, justice, suck on this... 
 Now it's my turn. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Hey, George, here comes the sun. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Say, Paul, your mother should know...that you're a scumbag. 
. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) John, all you need is love... 
 TITAN (CONT'D) ...and a good urologist. 57. 
 Well, Ringo...um...um...you're under arrest. 
 (to Hal) On behalf of the First National Bank of Metro City, I'd like to offer you a reward for your act of bravery. 
 (reading) Ten thousand dollars! 
 TITAN (CONT'D) (unenthusiastically) I...can't except this. Law and order is it's own...um...reward. 
 (O.S.) Not so fast, Roxanne. 
 This story's mine. 58. 
 Listen, Brad. We were just in the area. I was just trying to - 
 I've been in this business long enough to know pretty well what you were "just trying to do." Besides, I heard you couldn't take the big game anymore and were put on fluff detail? 
 You're not gonna take that from him, are you? 
 He's right. Old habit, I guess. (to Brad) We'll get out of your way. 
 Besides, I'm sure there's a pancake supper somewhere that needs covering. 
 
 For months now, since the death of Uberman, the citizens of Metro City have been holding out for a hero. Well, it appears they won't have to hold out for much longer as a new costumed crusader has suddenly stormed onto the scene. Today, at the Metro Savings and Trust, a masked mystery man single-handedly defeated "The Fab Four Gang." Just who is this new caped avenger? 
 I'm sure all of our viewers are now wondering, what's the "T" stand for? 
 It's a message to all the scum out there. Uberman may be gone, but Metro City has a new protector, and his name is "Tighten!" 
 How do you spell that? 
. 
 (reading paper) Oh, for heaven's sake. I can't believe it. He misspelled his name. 
 (whispering) Yeah, if the plan is getting us in jail. 
 You know, Einstein, maybe I should have called you Socrates. He also didn't know when to keep his thoughts to himself. 
 I just fail to see the point in all of this. I mean, why are we creating another superhero when it was such a pain in the ass for you to get rid of the other one? I mean, Uberman is destroyed, we should be using this opportunity to...to... 
 To what? 
 I don't know. To take over the weather, space, the world - whatever super villains are SUPPOSED to do. 
 The reason someone like you will always be a minion is because you have no foresight. We take over the earth, like you said. Then what? Women? Cars? Money? Even the grandest treasures will lose their lustre if you don't have someone to hold them over. 
 That's it! This balance of the force bullshit is getting way too Oprah for me. I'm blowing. Who's with me? 
 You dare? 
 Yeah, I dare. I'm sick of wearing stupid costumes, and I'm sick of working for a super villain who's turning into a softie. 61. 
 What - did - you - call me? 
 You heard me. You used to be an inhuman monster, now look at you. You're creating super heroes, you don't go with us on robberies anymore, it's been days since you threatened anyone, oh, and not to mention this Roxanne Ritchi thing. 
 THAT is none of your business, knave! 
 Hey, you guys haven't sealed the deal yet, have you? 
 Silence! 
 (In a woman's voice) Oh, Master, your head is so big. 
 I'm warning you, Einstein. 
 (In a woman's voice) Take me! 
 I said silence! 
 Don't get me wrong, I love being a reporter. I don't think I could do anything else. It's the consequences of what we do that I'm having a problem with. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" That's where journalistic responsibility comes in, no? 
 It's supposed to. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Sounds to me like you're running from something. 
 I got someone I cared about killed. If it wasn't for me, he wouldn't have been involved. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" You can't blame yourself. My father used to say each of us must answer the great call to truly feel alive. 
 Was he an actor? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" ...No. He was...a landscaper. And a horrible one. I mean he would fail time and time again at his...landscaping. And sometimes he'd get pretty beaten up or thrown in jail - 
 Jail? 63. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" My point is he took the good with the bad. He grew a little each time. Improved, learned. 
 Was he ever successful? 
 "JOHN CUSACK" God, no...but don't let deter you. 
 Thanks for this. You know, this is embarrassing, but it's been a long time since I - 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) I think it's starting to rain. We might want to find a table inside. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" What were you gonna say? 
 Oh, I was gonna say...It's been a long time since...well, I've been with someone I...enjoy being with. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" To people who enjoy being with each other. 
 "JOHN CUSACK" Okay, never mind that. Now, where were we? 
 Oh my God. 
 You're not gonna get all freaky about this, are you? 
 This...this is too much, even for you. God, I go out with you, tell you my innermost thoughts. 
 I only did this because I wanted to talk to you on the same level. You know, without all the baggage? 
 Baggage? You burned my boyfriend alive, you sick son-of-a-bitch! 
 You see, that's exactly what I'm talking about. 
 Stay away from me. 
 What? 
 (mumbling to himself) Stupid. What was I thinking? Plato, it's his fault. He's the one who sent me on this weak-willed path. I'll filet his scrotum for this. Me, a creature of evil, in love with Roxanne Ritchi. Preposterous. I hardly give such matters thought 
 I should just go up there and just lay it all out to her. "Roxanne, I like you - I always have. Oh, and I'm sorry I blew up your ex. (realizing the absurdity of his words) Yeah, that would go over like a pants-less clown at a child's birthday party. What the hell am I even doing here? Who cares what she thinks? I'm a supervillain and here I am acting like a love struck schoolboy. Forget this. I control my own destiny! 66. 
 Damn. 
 Please be open. 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) Thank God. 
 A pack of Lady Strikes, please. 
 Hello, Triple A? 67. 
 I'll call you back. 
 Hey! 
 Shut up, Gramps. 
 I don't think so. 
 I said give it to me! 
 (O.S.) The lady said no. 
 What the hell's that? A super soaker? 
 No, it's a goo gun. 
 Yeah, what's it do? 
 It goos. 
 I know you! You Master Brain guy. You a hero. 
 Don't - EVER - say that again. 
 Hey! 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) Are you following me or something? 69. 
 Don't flatter yourself. 
 Don't walk away from me when I'm talking to you. 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) What a minute...all that stuff you use to say to me when Uberman was alive - about me being the loyal queen by your side as you rule over Metro City. That wasn't just super villain rhetoric, was it? You actually meant it! 
 My, someone has a rather high opinion of themselves. 
 (coldly) Do you really think I would be with someone like you? 
 No. 
 Everything alright, sir? 
 (overly calm) Fine, why do you ask? 
 You...just...seem... 
 Go on. 
 ...distracted. 
 Just with business, my minion. Just with business. I've decided it is time. 
 You mean? 
 Yes, we've created our hero, now it's time to give him a little motivation. 
 How do we do that? 
 To be simply good is not enough. A hero must be driven by an almost relentless desire to right a wrong that can never be corrected. 
 You mean? 
 Yes, he must lose someone near and dear to him - his father figure. Gentlemen, it's time for Operation Mentor Kill! 
 
 Man, what the hell happened down there? Wait a sec - 
 TITAN (CONT'D) THAT'S MY APARTMENT!!! 
 Crap. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) 
! 
 TITAN (CONT'D) You okay? 
 "PAT MORITA" I'm dying, kid. There is just one last lesson I have for you. It is the most important of all. 72. 
 What's that? 
 "PAT MORITA" Master Mind did this, you must avenge me. 
 Master Mind? Why? 
 "PAT MORITA" Because he's evil. You must stop the evil Hal - stop the... 
 1 Tighten, Is this the work of Master Mind? 
 2 How will the death of your mentor affect your resolve? 
 3 Was that Pat Morita? 
 This injustice will not go unpunished. Master Mind, if you can hear me, Tighten is coming for you. 
 Alright, people, we don't have much time. Titan should be here any minute, so let's get the lead out. 
 Nearly up to full power, sir. 
 Hum. Let's turn it down a few notches. It's his first time and we don't want to get in a lucky shot, now do we? 
 Not yet, sir. 
 I see. Well, he must be planning something big. Are the flame androids deployed? 
 All twelve. 
 Wonderful, wonderful. Plato, Da Vinci, take your places next to me. 
 He's certainly taking his time. 
 He'll be here. That's the way it works. 
 Oh, for crying out loud. 
 Do you know who I am? 75. 
 Yeah, you're Master Mind. Yeah! You're actually the guy I want to see! 
 Oh, so NOW you want to get down to it. Well, I want to get a few things off my chest first. 
 Well, at first I was going to. You know, because that's what I figured I was supposed to do. But then I got to thinking- 
 (interrupting) -You got to thinking? There's nothing to think about. I'm the villain. I do something bad, you come and get me. 
 - I got to thinking...what's the point? 
 Maybe you're right. What's the point? 
. 76. 
 That's what I wanted to talk to you about. 
 (baffled) Where did you get all this? 
 (proudly) Get this: I stole them. 
 From where? 
 From all over. You see, once you killed Pat and ruined my other apartment building I was pretty pissed off, so I figured I'd go, find you and kick some ass. Then I thought to myself: "Okay,then what?" I mean, if we were to fight, what would I get out of it? Would I get my apartment back? Would I be able to pay the bills? 
 Well, what about your mentor? 
 Tell you the truth? He was kind of a dick. I mean, being a hero is dandy and all, but it's volunteer work. Now you've always had the right take on all this. I mean, when you rob a bank or take over the diamond exchange you get something out of it. I mean, when you don't get caught, which, no offense, isn't very often. And that brings me to what I wanted to propose to you: Who could catch you if I'm by your side? 
 You want to team-up? 77. 
 You got the brains, I got the brawn. We could even call ourselves that: `Brain' and `Brawn'. Look at this. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) I even designed us some new costumes. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) See, you'd be brain, so you got a little one on your costume, and then I'll have brawn on mine...once I figure out the best, you know, visual interpretation of it. What do you think? 
 What do I think? 
 I worked hard on this. 
 Oh - gee - I am so sorry! 78. 
 Now, hold on. You're going a little too far. 
 I wish your mother said that to your father the night of your conception, they would have saved me a whole lot of heartache. 
 Hey, I mean it. 
 Oh, yeah? What are you gonna do? 
 Master! 
 (O.S.) It hurts. 
 What hurts? 
 It! 
 I don't need you, I don't need anybody. I have the power to do and take anything I want. And now, I'm gonna take back everything this city owes me. Beware Metro City, it's time for Titan to collect. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Oh, and from now on - I'M GONNA FLY THE WAY I WANT TO FLY! 
 How'd the plan go, boss? 
 I just made myself redundant, old friend. 
 It's not that bad. 
 Morning, Tighten. 
 Morning. 
 Is there something we can do for you? 80. 
 Oh, don't bother about me. I'm just here to make a withdrawal. 
 Say, did he just rob us? 
 Not sure. Sort of looks it, don't it? 
 Yeah. 
 Should I, you know, stop him? 
 Umm...Yeah. 
 
 "Absolute power corrupts absolutely." When Lord Acton stated that, in a letter to Bishop Mandell Creighton in 1887, no one thought much about it, but today Metro City is reeling from that very prophecy. Tighten, who many thought of as our savior, has turned his back on the cause of justice. 
 I don't understand it. He seemed to have every characteristic we were looking for in a superhero. 
 Well, there's no use crying about it now, we must take action. I'm not going to play second fiddle to that crass buffoon. We must destroy Tighten. 82. 
 It won't be easy. Uberman had a sense of decency and genuine love for the people. That was his weakness and was easily used against him. 
 Yes, but he possesses the same flaws present in Uberman's DNA - copper. It's like Benjamin Franklin always said: "If something works don't dick with it." 
 I can have anything I want. I'm like a god. 
 Point to any woman in this bar. I could have her in a second. 
 (to Old Barfly) Hey, you wanna get with this? 
 Buddy, what do you want? 
 What do you want? That's the question, isn't it. I mean, what do you want when you can have everything? (MORE) 83.(cont'd) I suppose what I really want is to never be forgotten again. I want to do something that can never be cast aside or one-upped. I want a - what's it called? - A legacy. I want a legacy. Yeah, that's it. I like the sound that. 
 I meant, what do you want to drink? 
 Oh. 
 (O.S.) Your time has come to an end, Titan! 
 What? 
 There can be only one master criminal in this city - and it's me. 
 Really? 
 TITAN (CONT'D) I guess I should leave town then, huh? 
 I have a better idea - NOW! 
 You know what? You're nothing but a bug. Not even worth my effort. 
 He's not as dumb as I thought. 
 I guess not...Funny, though. 
 What's funny? 
 Funny Uberman didn't think of the same thing. 
 That's it! 
 Hello, Legacy. 
. 
 Hey, that's my ball! 
 That was a close one. Sixth floor, please. 
 Wow, I always thought Uberman was your first superhero - but it looks like our little Roxanne dated a linebacker in college. 
 That's my diary. 
 So it is. 86. 
 It's personal. 
 Well, then I wouldn't leave it in your underwear drawer for just anyone to find. 
 What do you want? 
 I need your help. 
 So you knock me out and tie me to a chair? 
 You're not going to like what I'm about to tell you. 
 
 It's chaos here in city square as city police - 
 He's really out of control. 
 Tell me about it. 
 I should have known. You have something to do with this, don't you? - With Titan turning evil. 87. 
 Well, the evil thing he did by himself. My goal was to give MYSELF purpose by creating an intellectual sparring partner. 
 (confused) You're talking like you made him. 
 And they call me Master Mind. 
 Let me get this straight. You missed getting your ass kicked, so you made a new guy to kick your ass. That's pathetic. 
 In hindsight... 
 And his powers, they're just like Uberman's. Why would he have his powers? 
 (almost ashamed) I had some left over from something. I infused him with it. 
 YOU DID WHAT!? 
 Yeah, that's why I decided to tie you up. 
 You did all this because you wanted purpose? 
 He seemed nice. 88. 
 
 Closer. I want to show the people my real face. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Recognize me? 
 Hal Stewart. He's the guy we thought saved that woman and kid. Turned out he was just trying to save his own ass. 
 Yeah, good to know - NOW! 
 
 That's right, I'm really Hal Stewart. Former hero and bowling teacher at Kingpin's Bowling. 
 You picked a bowler to give super powers to? 
 It's a modest profession! 
 89. 
 With my new found power, I've recently started to wonder what sort of legacy I should leave. Should I be a hero? I tried that once before - even saved a lady and her baby from being squashed. I was treated like a god until everyone started to shit on me - Okay, so what if I didn't "purposely" save them! 
 Well, I'm going to make something that can't be taken away from me. I'm going to create a permanent monument to my greatness. One that won't be so easily forgotten or erased. 
 I intend to create a new category in the Guinness Book of World's Records by rolling the biggest strike in the history of bowling. 
. 
 My thanks to the city planning commission. This wouldn't have been possible without them. 
 Tell your friends and family to tune in right here to this station at noon tomorrow. 
 My god, he's nuts. That'll destroy the whole business triangle. 90. 
 What? 
 My lair is in the direct path of the ball. 
 Oh, real nice. Wouldn't want anything to happen to your hideout, would we? 
 You don't understand. I have certain equipment that's - that's highly unstable. 
 What do you mean? 
 I sort of have a hydrogen reactor, okay? 
 A HYDROGEN reactor? 
 It's experimental - only one in the world...Well, how do you think I power all my inventions? Someone like me can't pay for electricity. The bills would be outrageous. 
 
 A? 
 It creates 100 times the output of a nuclear one...If destroyed it could... 
 - Vaporize the entire city! 
 (proudly) Pshaw...the whole eastern seaboard, actually. That little baby is amazing. I'm quite proud of it. (MORE) 91.(cont'd) (off her deadpan reaction) I mean...we'd better find a way to stop him. 
 Did Uberman have a hideout? 
 What? 
 A cave, a solitary fortress of some kind. C'mon, all heros have a place to hang their capes up in. Roxanne, it may be our only chance to find something, a clue, anything that could give us a fighting chance. 
 It's under his house. 
 Whose house? 
 Wayne Scott's. 
 Wayne Scott? Uberman was Wayne Scott!? Wayne Scott, the wealthy philanthropist? But he disappeared - 
 (interrupting) He disappeared just over two months ago when you killed him. Not only did you rid the world of a hero, you killed a kind, noble, generous man. 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) Looks like you got what you always wanted. Uberman is out of the picture and Metro City is doomed. 
 "Metro City doomed." You know, I never thought I'd say something like this, but here it goes - 
 Such a dark place for one such as you. I wonder, underneath your noble deeds, what inner demons drove you to your endless crusade for justice? 
 Good lord, man. You've only been dead for two months. 
. 
 PINEAPPLE!!! PINEAPPLE!!! 
 Ahhhhhh! 
 Jesus! 
 I might just ask you the same question. I had thought I incinerated you. 
 You scared the bejesus out of me. How'd you figure out I was still alive? Wait, how do you know my identity!? 
 Roxanne told me. As for your ruse, I forgot to line the bottom of the copper cage - Somebody pointed that out to me recently. Figured if they could do it, so could you. But one thing I couldn't figure out - 
 The skeleton? Something I "borrowed" from a medical school a few months before. 
 A few months? How long had you been planning this? 
 I always planned to retire - eventually. I mean, come on, you can't do this sort of thing in your fifties. You'd just look ridiculous. 
 I see it all so clearly now. 
 Man, you ARE smart. 
 But why fake your death? Why go through all of it? You could have just quit. 
 But the responsibility would still be there. (MORE) 97.(cont'd) A cop can retire and stop handing out speeding tickets - but people expect more from superheroes. I tell you, a volcano couldn't erupt in Zimbabwe without everyone expecting me to do something about it. I figured, out of sight, out of mind. 
 And Wayne Scott? Why did he have to disappear? 
 Both of my lives have so much baggage. It's time for new baggage, you know? 
 I just can't believe it. This whole time you've been in hiding while a force of great evil is tearing your city apart? 
 I don't want to hear about it. That's why I don't have a television in here to remind me of all the things I SHOULD be doing. Hell, I could get a wife to do that. 
 There's a demented supervillain out there about to destroy our - I mean, your city. 
 You're really going to do nothing? 
 Good and evil have a way of balancing themselves out. If this guy is as bad as you say, somebody will rise up to fight him. It's just the order of things. You found me, didn't you? 98. 
 You're the only one who can stop him. 
 Couldn't if I wanted to. Gotta a plane to catch. 
 A plane? 
 Going to Barbados for a little change in climate. Now, if you'll excuse me, I got to go pack. 
 Not smart enough to come up with a full-proof trap. 
 Well, you did almost have me when you figured out my weakness was copper. Now that made me sweat a little. Took me way too long to drill out from under that cage. 
 I got lucky. 
 Anyway, it's a good thing for my sake that I could always count on you for an out. 99. 
 (suddenly confused) What do you mean? 
 C'mon, we always threw each other a couple of bones. You would always leave me an out in one of your `full-proof' traps, and I'd never had you incarcerated at a penitentiary that you couldn't eventually escape from. It kept our little game going. 
 Game? - Was that all this ever was to you? You know, I was trying my best every time I fought you. Those `outs' as you call them were unintentional. 
 Oh. 
 I guess I was never really a match for you, was I? 
 I think we both got what we wanted out of our relationship. She got a career out of me, and I got plenty of other things out of her. But I'm ready to move on to greener pastures. 100. 
 I guess I wasn't the villain I thought I was, and you...you weren't the hero I thought you were. 
 Roxanne! How long have you been... 
 Long enough. 
 ROXANNE (CONT'D) Don't you have something else you can go do? 
 Alright, I want this whole thing to look ESPN professional, understand? 
 A 
 
 TITAN (CONT'D) You guys are about to get some good footage. I might need a little room, though. 
 Titan, we have orders from the city of Metro to take you into custody. If you do not give your self up willingly, we will be forced to open fire. 
 What is your answer? 
 (to beer) Miss me? 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Didn't mean to get you involved in all of this. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Hey, man! You killed my suds! 
 TITAN (CONT'D) That's one was for you, beer. 
 Guys, please tell me you got that last bit. 
 Huh? 
 You're kidding me. I give you my sexiest moves and you mean to tell me it was for nothing? 
 We were afraid something might hit us. 
 Looks like I've given the story of the century to the wrong man. 
 Wait. What about that other reporter. Blond. Not so lumpy on the topper half, but killer legs. 
 Roxanne. You want Roxanne. She's a much better reporter than I am. You want her. 
 Where can I find her. 
 We're actually not supposed to give out that sort of information. 
 1314 Mockingbird Lane. I believe she lives in a penthouse. 
 You've been very helpful. 
 Hurry, we must be on our way as soon as possible. 
 Master, why must we flee? 
 I told you, Titan is too powerful. If he's set on destroying us, there's precious little we could do about it. 
 Where are we going? 104. 
 To another city, someplace with a shitload of superheroes to fight. We'll start over, we'll go back to doing what we do best. 
 With our tails between our legs? 
 Plato, do you have a better plan?! 
 What are you going to do about Tighten? 
 Right now I'm packing, later I'll have a snack on the train. 
 You're running away? 
 In a word - yes. 
 You created this monster... 
 I didn't create this - the god's of irony did and I am eating the crow I so richly deserve. 
 There's no time for self pity. 105. 
 I'll make the time. 
 I'm not going anywhere. 
 Will you listen to me, no one can stop him. 
 You have to try. The city needs your help. 
 I'm afraid you have an inflated opinion of me. 
 What the hell's happened to you? The Master Mind I knew would never have run from a fight even though he knew deep in his heart that he didn't have a chance in hell of winning it. It was your best quality. You need to be that man right now...I... 
 What? 
 (heart felt) I believe in you. 
 Sweet words, but that man is dead. Please, Roxanne, just come with me. 
 No...I guess you are a coward after all. 
 Man, have I got a story for you. 
 Roxanne? Roxanne? 
 What pose would be best? The corny folded arms thing? 
 Or maybe on the hips, like this. 
 No, makes me look like a flamer pirate. 
 (whispering) Shouldn't we be making a run for it right about now? 
 (whispering) The guy can outrun bullets. I don't think either one of us is in that kind of shape. 
 She's right, Frank. 107. 
 Also got super hearing. I promise not to keep the both of you long, but you'll thank me when this is all over. 
 Dad, it's me... (he looks around to make sure no one can hear) ...Bubsy. I know we haven't talked in a while, and I'm sorry. It's been a little crazy trying to live up to a legacy. 
 Anyway...You raised me to be the worst that I could possibly be. And I've tried to live up to that as best as I could - even dropping out of dentistry school like you wanted me to. But I'm about to do something now that would really piss you off. I'm going to go against everything you ever taught me. I hope...I hope that maybe you'll look down at what I'm about to do as not so much a good deed, but more like the outright defiance of a hateful and ungrateful, son. If you could do that, then maybe - in your own little way - you could - for probably the first time - find a reason to be proud of me. 
 Well...either way, you're probably going to see me real soon. (calling over his shoulder) Men? 
 Stop packing. Our work is not finished here. 
! 
 
 We interrupt your regular afternoon programming to show you live footage of a potential dangerous situation in downtown Metro. The former hero knows as Titan is placing what appears to be a giant ball... 
 Hold on...It appears our own Roxanne Ritchi is somehow at the scene. We now go to her with a live report. 
 Sir, I think you should see this! 
 I'm here with the cause of the destruction in Metro City. He has kidnapped me and a cameraman to chronicle what he refers to as the creation of a monument to his invincibility and overall "Asskickiness." He will use this giant concrete bowling ball to play the largest game of bowling ever using the buildings of downtown Metro City as his pins. 
 And I'm going for the biggest strike ever. 
 And you, Metro City, have a ringside seat as I cement my name in the anal of history. 
 Annals. 
 What? 
 Nevermind. 
 (in quiet professional bowler announcer voice) Like Tiger before him, a young savior has come to raise a sport from the ashes. Rookie Hal Stewart, a young man with a dream, realizing that dream here today, folks. (MORE) 110.(cont'd) One might click there heels and say "There's no place like home" upon finding themselves in such a fantasy. Well, Hal looks very much at home right were he is - with a ball in hand and glory in his sights. 
 Hal, I know everyone treated you like shit, but you don't have to do this. 
 You're right. I don't HAVE to do anything. Isn't that cool? 
 Here's one for the record books! 
 
 
 111. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) What the...? 
 Look, what's that flying in the air? 
. 
 C'mon, slow down 
 C'mon. 
 Gutterball! 
 
 YOU! 
 Bowling? What other trailer park sports can you play? 112. 
 You are becoming a real pain in my ass. I should have done this a long time ago. 
 What the hell? 
. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) 
! 
 
 Shit! Stupid monkeys and their fruit. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) No more games. 
 Could it really be that easy-- 
 If you don't mind, I'm going to punch trough your face now. 
 I'm alive. 
 Uberman? 114. 
 1 It's Uberman! 
 2 Uberman's alive! 
 3 We're saved! 
 I thought. 
 So did I. 
 Thank you, old enemy. 
 For what? 
 Showing me the error of my ways, Showing me I'm meant to be this city's savior, showing me that, while we can try, there is no running away from our true destiny. 
. 
 Oh...Did I interrupt something? 
 Where you going, buddy? 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Welcome to Paintown. Population: you. 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Time to finish this. 
 
!!! 
 What? 
 Quick joke - What's the capital of Thailand? 
 Huh - I don't know. 
 It's bang cock! 
 TITAN (CONT'D) Ow. 
 So, I guess pennies are good for something. 116. 
 Pretty strange, huh? 
 They're cheering for me. 
 You saved them. You saved everybody. How's it feel? 
 It's a...it's nice, you know? I usually don't get a lot of feedback. (whispering) But I also kind of caused all this. What happens when they find that out I was the cause of some of this? 
 What they don't know won't hurt them. 
 I guess that is all in the past. 
 You're the hero. 
 I don't think I'd go that far...I mean I just...er... 
 Master Mind? 117. 
 Yes? 
 Stop talking. 
 
 Who's bad? Well, not Master Mind. It seems the former villain has done a career 180 after defeating Tighten and saving Metro City from certain enslavement. And here he is getting a full pardon by Metro City's Mayor, Steve Dent. 
. 
 Ahhh! 
 Sorry - Metal hand. Force of habit. 
 And what about Tighten? Is there a prison in existence that can hold this super powered menace? Well, the answer we found is no. 
 Of course normally he could break out of there anytime, but as you can see we've taken some special precautions. 
 What is a Hero? It seems never has that question needed to be asked more than it does tonight. We go to our very own Roxanne Ritchi, making her triumphant return to our news desk for the answer. 
 What is a hero? Well, there are many different kinds. There are those who hear a call, like the policeman or doctor, then there's the kind the public creates in their search for meaning and hope. Then, there are those who have the courage to change. 
 #1 Hey, gimme that purse? 119. 
 (O.S) I don't think it would go with your outfit. 
 #2 It's Master Mind! 
 #1 So? It's not like he has any superpowers. 
 I'm gonna give you a chance to surrender. 
 #1 Four against one. For a Master Mind, you're really bad at math. 
 Way to take out those two goons, guys! 
 What two goons? 
 
