 October 18, 1950 
 (smiling with sudden recognition) I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines. 
 (snapping his finger) Sure! I saw you blast Faraday right off the court in South Orange last season. What a backhand! Made the semi-finals, didn't you? 
 (with open admiration) I certainly admire people who do things. (smiling and introducing himself) I'm Bruno Anthony. Bruno. See Guy looks up. Bruno indicates his gold tie pin which bears his name in cut- out letters. Guy looks at it with the faintest expression of disdain. I suppose you think it's corny. But my mother gave it to me so of course I wear it to please her. 
 (patiently)(a faint smile) How do you do. 
 (with an apologetic grin) I don't usually talk so much.   Go Ahead and read. 
 (wryly) Thanks. Guy tries to read but is uneasily aware of Bruno's open appraisal. 
 It must be pretty exciting to be so important. 
 (fidgeting slightly) A tennis player isn't so important. 
 People who do things are important. I never seem to do anything. 
 (still insistent on being friendly) I suppose you're going to Southampton -- for the doubles. 
 (politely) You are a tennis fan. 
 Wish I could see you play. But I've got to be back in Washington tomorrow. I live in Arlington, you know. 
 Cigarette? 
 Not now, thanks.          I don't smoke much. 
 I smoke too much. 
 Thanks. (he stares at the lighter, impressed) Elegant. 
 BRUNO'S VOICE (reading) To G from A. Bet I can guess who A is. 
 (coldly) Yes? 
 Anne Burton. Sometimes I turn the sport page and look at the society news. And the pictures. She's very beautiful, Senator Burton's daughter. 
 You're quite a reader, Mr. Anthony. 
 Yes, I am. Ask me anything, from today's stock reports to Li'l Abner, and I got the answer. (MORE) 
 BRUNO (CONT'D) Even news about people I don't know. Like who'd like to marry whom when his wife gets her divorce. 
 (sharply) Perhaps you read too much. 
 (contritely) There I go again. Too friendly. I meet someone I' like and open my yap too wide. I'm sorry... At the appeal on Bruno's face, Guy slowly relents. 
 That's all right. Forget it.    I guess I'm pretty jumpy. 
 There's a new cure for that. (to waiter) Scotch and plain water. A pair. Double. (to Guy with a chuckle) Only kind of doubles I play. 
 You'll have to drink both of them. 
 (grinning) And I can do it. (moving in) When's the wedding? 
 What? 
 The wedding. You and Anne Burton. (a gesture of explanation) It was in the papers. 
 It shouldn't have been. Unless they've legalized bigamy overnight. 
 I have a theory about that. I'd like to tell you about it some time. But right now I suppose divorce Is still the simplest operation. 
 (as if he needs it) I guess I will. 
 (happily) This is wonderful -- having your company all the way to New York. 
 (forced to explain) As a matter of fact, I'm not going direct. I'm stopping off. At Metcalf. 
 Metcalf? What would anybody want to go there for? 
 It's my home town. 
 Oh, I get it! A little talk with your wife to about the divorce! I suppose she was the girl next door. Held her hand in high school and before you knew it -- hooked! (proud of his perspicacity) Am I right? 
 (laconically) Close enough. 
 (raises his glass) Well, here's luck, Guy. Drink up -- then we'll have some lunch sent to my compartment. 
 Thanks very much. But I think I'll go to the dining car. (he hails a waiter who is passing through with a food-laden tray) Do you know if there are any vacant seats in the dining car now? 
 Not for about twenty minutes I'm afraid, Sir. 
 (pleased) See? You'll have to lunch with me. (motions the waiter back) Say, waiter, bring me some lamb chops and French fries and chocolate ice cream, Compartment D, Car 121. (turns to Guy) What'll you have, Guy? 
 Thanks just the same, but I really don't think -- 
 Oh, go on and order. 
 Well, I'll Just have a hamburger and a cup of coffee. 
 (delighted, lifts his glass in another toast) To the next Mrs. Haines. 
 Sure, I went to college. Three of them. Every time they kicked me out my father threw me back in. (bitterly) He finally gave up. He thinks I'm awfully small fry, not worth the bait. (wistfully) You my friend, Guy? 
 Sure.   I'm your friend, Bruno. 
 (a little woozy) No, you're not, nobody thinks I'm anything special. Only my mother. (empties the bottle into his glass) My father hates me. 
 You must be imagining things. 
 (hitting the bottom of the bottle for the last drop) And I hate him. He thinks   I ought to catch the eight-five bus  every morning, punch a timeclock  and work my way up selling paint or  something. Him -- with all his money! 
 (amused by Bruno) Well, what do you want to do? 
 You mean before or after I kill him? 
 (chuckling) Before, of course. 
 (leaning forward eagerly) I want to do everything. I got a theory you're supposed to do everything before you die. Have you ever driven a car, blindfolded, at a hundred and fifty miles an hour? 
 Not lately. 
 I did. I flew in a jet plans too. (his hand traces a swift streak through the air, and he adds sound effects) Zzzzzzzp! Man, that's a thrill! Almost blow the sawdust out of my head. I'm going to make a reservation on the first rocket to the moon... 
 (amused and curious) What are you trying prove? 
 I'm not like you, Guy. You're lucky. You're smart. Marrying the boss's daughter is a nice short cut to a career, isn't it? 
 (quickly) Marrying the senator's daughter has nothing to do with it. Can't a fellow look past a tennis not without being a goldbricker? 
 Take it easy, boy. I'm your friend, remember? I'd do anything for you. 
 (humoring Bruno) Sure, Bruno, sure. (MORE) 
 GUY (CONT'D) (glancing at his watch) We'll be pulling in soon. I've got to change trains. 
 What'd you say her name was -- your wife's? 
 Miriam. 
 That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose? 
 Let's not talk about it any more. 
 (almost hopefully) Maybe she'll make more trouble for you. 
 I don't think so. 
 You mean you got enough on her to get your divorce no matter what? 
 Let's change subject, Bruno, can't we? 
 Okay, Guy. Want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father? 
 (indicating the detective novels) You've been reading too many of these. 
 (going right on) You want to hear about the busted light socket in the bathroom, or the carbon monoxide in the garage? 
 No. I may be old fashioned, but I thought murder was against the law. 
 But not against the law of nature. My theory is that everybody is a potential murderer. Didn't you ever want to kill somebody? Say one of those useless fellows Miriam was running around with? 
 You can't go around killing people just because you think they're useless. 
 Oh, what's a life or two? Some people are bitter off dead, Guy. Take your -- wife and my father, for instance. It reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. I used to put myself to sleep at night -- figuring it out. Now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife. 
 Why? 
 Let's say she refuses to give you a divorce -- (raises a finger and stops Guy's protest) Let's say. You'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. And what would trip you up? Motive. Now here's the plan... 
 I'm afraid I haven't time to listen. 
 (ignoring the remark) It's so simple, too. A couple of fellows meet accidentally, like you and me. No connection between them at all. Never saw each other before. Each of them has somebody he'd like to get rid of, but he can't murder the person he wants to get rid of. He'll get caught. So they swap murders. 
 Swap murders? 
 Each fellow does the other fellow's murder. Then there is nothing to connect them. The one who had the motive isn't there. Each fellow murders a total stranger. Like you do my murder and I do yours. 
 (with relief) We're coming into my station. 
 For example, your wife, my father. Criss-cross. 
 (sharply) What? 
 (with a smile) We do talk the same language -- don't we, Guy? 
 (preparing to leave) Sure, we talk the same language. Thanks for the lunch. 
 (beaming) I'm glad you enjoyed it. I thought the lamb chops were a little overdone myself. 
 Nice meeting you, Bruno. 
 (detaining him at the door) You think my theory is okay, Guy? You like it? 
 Sure, sure, Bruno. They're all okay. (he salutes a quick goodbye and hurries away) 
 (smiling) Criss-cross. 
 Hi, Bill. 
 (smiling) Guy Haines! Good to too you, boy. You be sure to win at Southampton tomorrow, hear me? I've got two dollars on your nose. 
 (indicating his suitcase and rackets) Then park these in a lucky spot for a few hours, will you? 
 Sure thing. 
 (taking money from customer) Even change. Thank you, Madam. (she looks up at Guy as the woman moves off) Well -- hello, Guy. 
 You're looking well, Miriam. 
 So are you. You've got a nice tan, playing tennis with all your rich friends. 
 (ignoring the remark) What time do we meet your lawyer? 
 (sly little smile) What's your hurry? 
 My hurry? That's funny, coming from you! You're the one who's in a hurry, aren't you? 
 (coyly) When you wouldn't give me the divorce right away, I sort of hoped it was because you were a little bit jealous. 
 (biting) I got over being jealous, a long time ago Miriam. Miriam's eyes slide toward the other girl clerk who has moved closer, within listening range. 
 (indicating empty glass cubicle) Let's talk in there. 
 (intimately) Now this is cosier. Sort of like old times, isn't it, Guy? 
 (coldly) Oh, skip it, Miriam. It's pretty late to start flirting with a discarded husband. Especially when you're going to have another man's baby. 
 Do you know, I think you're handsomer than ever? 
 Let's see your lawyer and get this over with. 
 Did you bring the money, Guy?   Lawyers are expensive. 
 (taking money from his wallet) Here it is. 
 (taking the money greedily) If I'd known what all that tennis nonsense of yours was going to lead to, I wouldn't have run out on you. 
 What are you trying to say, Miriam? Come out with it. 
 (tucking the bills away) I'm not getting a divorce. 
 (tense and angry) Why, you little doublecrosser. I didn't want this divorce, you did. That's what you've been harping about for the past year. 
 It's a woman's privilege to change her mind... Now I can shop for some pretty clothes. I wouldn't want you to be ashamed of me in Washington when we go to all those dinners and swanky parties. 
 And what do you mean by that? 
 (Coyly) Don't look so mad, Guy. You always smile when your picture is being taken for the papers. (MORE) 
 MIRIAM (CONT'D) Especially when you have Anne Burton hanging on your arm. 
 Let's not talk about Anne Burton. 
 So, it's really serious between you two? Well, you can throw your dreams about her into the ashcan. Guy, I'm coming to Washington. 
 What for? 
 To have my baby and be with you. 
 Why me?   It's not my baby. 
 But people don't know that, Guy, do they? It would make a pretty story, wouldn't it -- the senator's daughter involved with a married man who's about to become a father. 
 (furiously) You black conniving little liar! 
 Keep your voice down. 
 What happened? Did he run out on you? 
 No man runs out on me.   Not even you. 
 You're a liar and a  cheat,   Miriam. You've wanted to get  rid of   me long enough and now I'll  go you   one better -- I never want to see  or hear   of you again. 
 (demurely) I could be very pathetic as the deserted little mother in a courtroom, Guy. Think it over. Who would believe you? 
 ...That's what should happen to people like you. And if I... 
 (interrupts) Break it up, folks. This isn't the place for a family quarrel. 
 (his eyes blazing) Sorry. I'm leaving. 
 (yelling like a fishwife) You heard what I said, Guy Haines. You can't throw me away like an old shoe. I'm coming to Washington to have my baby. Tell that to the senate! 
 Long distance. (a pause) I want Washington, D. C. The number is Republic 0800. Person to person. Miss Anne Burton. 
 (continuing) Right. 
 (tautly, into phone) Anne, -- Anne darling. Yes, I'm in Metcalf -- (gets a grip on himself) No, everything didn't go smoothly. She doesn't want a divorce, not now.... 
 (after a pause then with unpleasant realization) Another man's child! But she can't do that to you, Guy -- it's unbelievable -- it's, it's evil! (she listens, then calmly) Yes, I know how you must feel. (pause) But you sound so savage. 
 (furiously) Sure I sound savage. I feel savage. I'd like to break her neck! (a pause, then raising his voice) I said I'd like to break her foul, poisonous, useless little neck! (the connection is bad and he strains to hear) What's that? 
 I SAID I COULD STRANGLE HER! 
 MRS. ANTHONY Since you insisted on a manicure, dear, I do wish you'd keep your hands quiet. You're so restless lately. 
 (almost dreamily as he admires the free hand) I like them to look just right. 
 MRS. ANTHONY Did I file them too short? 
 No, Ma.   They look fine.   Thanks. 
 MRS. ANTHONY Then what's the matter? 
 I'm all right, Ma.   Don't worry about me. 
 MRS. ANTHONY You look so Pale, dear. Are you out of vitamins? 
 I bought a bottle of them yesterday. A whole fifth. 
 MRS. ANTHONY (anxiously) But you have that 'look'. I can always tell. You haven't got into any more mischief, Bruno? 
 MRS. ANTHONY I do hope you've forgotten about that silly little plan of yours? 
 (sharply) Which one? 
 MRS. ANTHONY (smiling) About blowing up the White House? 
 (his eyes dancing) I was only kidding, Ma. Besides, what would the president say? 
 MRS. ANTHONY (laughing gaily) You're a naughty boy, Bruno. But you can always make me laugh. (she rises) Now get shaved, dear, before your father gets home. 
 I'm sick and tired of bowing and scraping to the king. 
 MRS. ANTHONY (placating him) Now,    now, Let's not lose control. Come    see my painting, dear -- (she leads him toward an easel) I do    wish you'd take up painting. It's    such a soothing pastime. 
 
 You're wonderful, Ma! It's the old boy, all right. That's father! 
 MRS. ANTHONY (bewildered) It is? I was trying to paint Saint Francis. 
 (to Bruno) They are ready with your call to Southampton, Sir. 
 MRS. ANTHONY (to her husband) How nice that you're early, Charles. I'll tell cook.... 
 MR. ANTHONY Just a minute, Eunice. (calls after Bruno) Bruno! Come here! I want to talk to you and your mother. 
 (calls back to his father) Sorry father. Long distance. (he picks up the telephone) Hello... 
 (eagerly into phone) Guy? (pause) Bruno, Bruno Anthony. 
 I just wanted to ask how you made out with Miriam. 
 (puzzled) What? (listens) Metcalf? Who'd you say you were? 
 
 (sotto voce) Bruno, Guy. Bruno Anthony. Don't you remember? On the train. 
 MRS. ANTHONY I never permit it! 
 (softly) Are you getting your divorce? 
 (into phone, with satisfaction) So she double-crossed you!   Are you going to see her again? 
 
 (calls out as she passes) Hello Mrs. Joyce. Warm, ain't it? 
 MRS. JOYCE That it is. 
 I've been reading where your son-in- law's been coming right along at tennis. 
 MRS. JOYCE (sourly) We don't have any interest in tennis any more. 
 MRS. JOYCE Don't you stay out too late, Miriam. 
 (calling back) Goodnight, Mother.   See you later. 
 SEMI-CLOSEUP 
 
 BOY'S VOICE Come On, Miriam. Come On! 
 
 (squealing) George, stop it, I tell you! 
 (protesting perfunctorily) George, no! 
 GEORGE'S VOICE Miriam! 
 Oh! 
 Is your name Miriam? 
 (with surprise) Why yes. How did you -- 
 Miriam!   Miriam! Where are you? 
 Hey, here she is! What's the matter with her? Has she fainted? 
 (crying out) She is dead! 
 (from island) Help! Help! 
 Got a cop! 
 Thanks. 
 
 There was a man, now please take note. There was a man who had a goat. He loved that goat, Indeed he did. He loved that goat, just like a kid. (He stops singing abruptly and addresses Guy) What is your opinion? 
 (amused) You'll never make the Metropolitan. 
 (fuzzily -- pumping Guy's hand) Name's Collins. On sabbatical - Delaware Tech. Glad to meet you. I jus' gave a speech in New York. On integration. In the differential calculus a function is given and its differential is obtained. Understand? 
 (solemnly) Sure, I understand. 
 (resentfully) Y'do? 
 (softly) Guy! 
 Over here, Guy. 
 (cheerfully) Hello, Guy. 
 (recognizes Bruno -- not pleased) What are you doing here?   At this time of night? 
 (a little sadly) You don't seem very pleased to see me, Guy. 
 (pleased again) I brought you a little present. 
 What do you mean? 
 
 What's this all about? 
 Recognize them? 
 
 
 It was very quick, Guy. She wasn't hurt in any way. It was all over in no time. 
 
 BRUNO'S VOICE (bragging) I know you'd be surprised. Nothing for us to worry about. Nobody saw me, only Miriam. 
 I was very careful. Even when I dropped your lighter there, I went right back to it up. If It'd been found, it would have ruined our whole scheme, wouldn't it? 
 Are you trying to tell me you've -- Why, you maniac! 
 (looks at Guy with astonishment) But, Guy, you wanted it! We planned it on the train together, remember? 
 Where are you going? 
 Where do you think I'm going? I'm going to call the police, of course. 
 But you can't, Guy. We'd both be arrested for murder. 
 We'd both be arrested for murder? 
 You're is much in it as I am. We planned it together. Criss-cross. I do your murder -- 
 (suddenly angry) You crazy fool! You think you can get away with that? 
 (a little hurt) Oh, come now, Guy. Why should I go to Metcalf and kill a total stranger, unless it was part of the plan and you were in on it? You're the one that benefits, Guy. You're a free man. I didn't even know the girl. 
 Let me go, Bruno. I had nothing to do with this and the police will believe me. 
 (concerned) If you go to the police now, you'll just be turning yourself in as in accessory. You see, you have the motive. 
 What is it? 
 My telephone. 
 (amused) Someone has some news for you, Guy. 
 Tell them you know about it already, Guy. 
 
 (muttering) You've got me acting, like a criminal, you crazy fool! 
 Don't you call me that. 
 You must be tired, Guy. I know I am. I've sure had a strenuous evening. 
 Now look, Guy, about my father. I have the plans made. Two plans. A plan of the grounds and a plan of the house. I have in old Luger I bought at a pawn shop in San Francisco. My father -- 
 Wait a minute, Guy. To have to talk. We have to arrange things. 
 (furiously) Get away before I give you what you gave Miriam. 
 (sadly) You're not yourself, Guy. You're tired. When you think things over, you'll see I'm right. Tomorrow -- 
 (with finality) I don't know you. I never saw you before. I never want to see you again. 
 (to the closed door) But we have to -- 
 (hoarsely, into phone) Yes? (Pause) Yes, Anne. I'm sorry, darling.   I just got in. (pause) Of course I'm all right. (MORE) 
 GUY (CONT'D) (forcing his voice to sound normal) But you sound upset. Is anything wrong? (Pause) All right. I'll come over. Right away. 
 (holding her close) Anne darling, you're trembling. 
 Guy -- (her fingers gently touch his face) I wonder if you know how much I love you. 
 (forcing a smile) Brazen woman. I'm the one to say that. 
 (tensely) But I wanted you to know, before... (forcing herself to be calm) Before we go into the living room. 
 
 
 
 (stiffly) Good evening, sir.   Hello, Babs. 
 Something awful has happened, Guy. 
 (firmly) Sit down, Barbara. 
 (finding it difficult to begin) There seems to be no way of diplomatically breaking tragic news. I'm sorry, Guy, to be the one to tell you. It concerns your wife. She's been murdered. 
 The police have been using everything but radar to locate you. 
 You're to call Headquarters at Metcalf. 
 Miriam...murdered. 
 (with inner tension) She was...strangled. 
 (wrylt, to Guy) It happened on an island in an amusement park. It was sort of a lovers lane, I believe. A rather sordid atmosphere. 
 (quickly, to Guy) Miriam went there with two boys. They were the ones who found her. So they're not suspects. But you probably will be. 
 Young lady, we can't overlook the fact that murder is at our doorsteps. But I forbid you to drag it into the living room! 
 (wide-eyed) Let's not fool ourselves. The police will say Guy wanted Miriam out of the way so he could marry Anne. In a crime of this sort the police first go after the husband, and Guy had every motive. 
 (aghast) Motive? 
 (quietly) She's right. Whichever way you look at it...I'm in a spot. 
 (disconcerted but whistling in dark) Oh come now, my boy. I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. 
 (flatly) If he hasn't an alibi for nine-thirty tonight he has plenty to worry about. 
 (who hasn't taken anxious eyes off Guy) You can tell them where you were, can't you, Guy? 
 (wearily) At nine-thirty I was on the train from New York to Washington. 
 (relieved) There you are. 
 Who saw you? Did you speak to anyone? You'll need a Witness, you know. 
 (as if it didn't matter) Yes, I spoke to someone. 
 (hopefully) Anyone you know? 
 No. His name was Collins.   He is a professor. 
 (brightening) Harvard. 
 University of Virginia. 
 
 Then everything's's all right. 
 Not quite. Detectives play a game called Motive, Motive, Who'd got the Motive. 
 (near the breaking point) I'm sick of hearing that word! 
 He'll still have to answer questions. 
 Routine.   Pure routine. 
 I'm afraid there'll be a lot of reporters at your front door in the morning. 
 Daddy doesn't mind a little scandal. He's a senator. 
 (answering Guy's look) It can't be helped, darling. It is not your fault. It's not as though anyone can say you had something to do with it. 
 Someone might say it...I'd do anything to keep you all out of this mess. 
 Profit by my experience, Guy. Never lose any sleep over accusations. (an afterthought) Unless they can be proved, of course. We'll help all we can. Dreadful business, dreadful. That poor unfortunate girl. 
 (flatly) She was a tramp. 
 (pontificially) She was a human being. let me remind you that even the most unworthy of us has the right to life and the pursuit of happiness. 
 (unimpressed) From what I hear, she pursued it in all directions. 
 Barbara! 
 Father, it's getting terribly late, and Guy looks so tired... 
 (quickly) Of course, of course.    Back to bed, Barbara. 
 (ignoring this - to Anne and Guy) Well, you two. Nothing stands in your way now. You can be married right away. Think of it -- you're free! 
 (to Barbara) One doesn't always have to say what one thinks! 
 (sweetly) Father, I'm not a politician. 
 You won't forget that call, Guy? Captain Turley. 
 Yes sir.   Goodnight. 
 I still think it would be wonderful to have a man love you so much he'd kill for you. (she ducks out) 
 I told myself over and over I was being silly, but there was one horrible moment tonight when the news came through. I kept remembering what you shouted telephone from Metcalf. 
 That I could strang... 
 Don't even say it.   Forget you ever said it. Even more   terrifying than the murder itself,  Guy, was the awful thought that if you  had anything to do with it we'd be  separated, -perhaps forever. I'd never   see you again. I couldn't bear it. 
 Captain Turley's office? 
 Captain Turley is expecting me.   Guy Haines. 
 Just a moment, Mr. Haines. 
 
 MRS. JOYCE (a fierce whisper) You'll pay for this! 
 
 
 SERGEANT'S VOICE Will you come in, please, Mr. Haines? 
 Good of you to be so prompt, Mr. Haines. This is Lieutenant Campbell. (the two nod to each other) Won't you sit down? 
 Thank you, sir. (he sits) 
 I know you're a busy man, so   we won't detain you any longer than necessary...Now you already been good enough to tell us where you were last evening, and we've managed to locate the gentleman you spoke with on the train. 
 (brightening) Yes. I saw him outside. 
 (at open door) Will you come in please, professor? 
 
 Professor Collins, this is Mr. Haines. He was with you on the train last night. 
 I'm terribly sorry, but I really don't remember meeting this gentleman. 
 
 (apologetically) Unfortunately, I remember very little about the journey from New York...You see, there had been a little celebration -- 
 But we were sitting opposite each other in the observation car! You were singing a song about a goat -- 
 (incredulously) A goat? 
 (urgently) And calculus. You were going over a speech you'd made. 
 I was? I'm sorry, Mr. Halnes. (shakes his head) I certainly must have celebrated!   I can't remember you at all. 
 
 (calmly, logically) Captain, is it so important whether or not Professor Collins remember me? Surely, the important thing is that I've been able to name a man who was on the train with me. You've been able to find him. Isn't that proof of where I was at nine-thirty last night? Guy asks this question with a look of near triumph that he has clearly established his alibi. 
 Hello, darling. Have you had your dinner? 
 On the train. 
 You weren't in Metcalf all this time? We expected you hours ago. 
 (flatly) I didn't. They sometimes throw a suspect in the can and keep him there all night. 
 (after a disapproving glance at Barbara) Sit down, Guy. Sit down.    Give him some coffee, Anne. (MORE) 
 SENATOR (CONT'D) (back to Guy) You had no trouble with the police of course, once they verified your alibi? 
 (morosely) When an alibi is full of bourbon, sir, it can't stand up. 
 You mean the professor was boiled? 
 Completely.    He didn't remember me. 
 But, you knew he was on the train! Wasn't that enough to prove you were on it, too? 
 Apparently not at the right time. They suggested I could have caught the train at Baltimore after Miriam was murdered. They had it all worked out -- (taps his head) in their timetables. 
 (growing indignant and increasingly nervous) That's ridiculous. They're acting as if you were guilty. 
 (somewhat subdued and trying to be comforting) Everything will be all right, Anne. The police were just being thorough -- (she's unsure of herself, and defers to the senator) Weren't they, daddy? 
 I certainly hope so. (to Guy) What is your next step? 
 (wryly) Whatever it is, the police will know it. They gave me a present -- come take a look. 
 (continuing) My guardian angel. 
 (impressed) You're being tailed! 
 (turning to them) That's Leslie Hennessy. He works sixteen hours a day. Somebody else takes over for the next eight. (drops the curtain, turns back into room) As a matter of fact, Hennessy's a very nice fellow. 
 Shouldn't we ask him in for Coffee -- or something? 
 I'll have him called off immediately of course. 
 (calmly) I'm afraid where I go, Hennessy goes. Even to the Senate. 
 (Pausing with his cup hallway to his mouth) Is he likely to -- picket my office? 
 Very likely. 
 I would suggest, Guy, for your own peace of mind, of course, that you work here at the house for a few days. (a pause) It would be less embarrassing for you. 
 (hopelessly) Then what about practicing? Perhaps I'd better forget Forest Hills? 
 My dear boy, wouldn't it look rather -- awkward -- if you suddenly canceled all your plans. 
 He's right, Guy. You mustn't do anything that would look suspicious. You've got to carry on as though nothing has happened. 
 (pointing out the window) Escorted by Mr. Hennessy. 
 A call for you, Mr. Haines.   They say it is urgent. 
 Hello -- 
 Hello, Guy. I tried your apartment, but -- (pause) Why, Guy, this is Bruno! 
 Must be some mistake.   It wasn't for me. 
 Well, I suppose I was pretty lucky to be seeded fifth, really. 
 I've never seen the Forest Hillss tournament before. I'm looking forward to it. 
 (wryly) Do you mean we'll be going there together, Hennessy? 
 Oh, don't worry. This thing will be cleared up by that time. (changes the subject) Ever thought of turning professional, Guy? 
 I won't have to do that. When I'm through with tennis. I'll be going into politics, I hope. 
 (aghast) Politics! It's a good thing for you I don't report that to the chief. 
 HENNESSY'S VOICE If he knew you were getting into that rat-race -- 
 -- He'd put ten men on your trail. He says -- 
 (interrupts) Let's take this cab.   It's getting late. 
 Pentagon Building, please. 
 Oh, no, not there! I always get lost. 
 Well, we'd better be getting back. 
 We've actually been alone for an hour. Seems almost indecent. You like? 
 (softly) I like. 
 I was beginning to feel like a goldfish. 
 So was I. When we build our house, darling, we won't even have glass windows. No doorbells, no newspapers, no telephone -- 
 No Hennessy. 
 (suddenly serious) How long can it go on? 
 I don't know. I suppose until they find out who did it. 
 We'll be happier then, won't we? 
 I suppose so. 
 (softly) Guy! 
 
 
 
 (muttering harshly) Will you stop pestering me! 
 But Guy, you haven't called me. My father's leaving for Florida the end of this week -- 
 (interrupts) You crazy fool! There's a detective outside. He'll see us together! 
 (brushing this off) Oh, they can't have anything on you. (looking past Guy) Isn't that Anne Burton? Slight improvement over Miriam -- eh, Guy? 
 Stay away from me, I tell you! 
 Who was it, Guy? 
 (unnerved) I never saw him before.   Just some tennis fan. 
 
 Here's a special delivery, Mr. Haines. It's marked personal. 
 Are you getting in any practice today, Guy? 
 (as he takes out a large folded sheet of paper and glances at it, mystified) Yes, if I can get a court at the club. 
 SECRETARY'S VOICE Barbara, who are you waving at? 
 BARBARA'S VOICE Mr. Hennessy. I think it is a shame Daddy won't let us have him in the house to sit down. Have you met him yet, Louise? 
 SECRETARY'S VOICE No. 
 BARBARA'S VOICE He is awfully cute. 
 
 Is anything wrong, Mr. Haines? 
 Her voice breaks his reverie.   He answers her with a forced smile. 
 No, thank you, Louise. 
 I didn't think he'd show up after what happened. 
 And miss all the publicity? 
 He looks across at the watching crowd. 
 
 
 PLAYER'S VOICE Ready, Guy? 
 Guy, darling -- this is Mr. Antony -- a friend of Monsieur and Madame Darville... (to Bruno) Guy Haines. 
 
 I've been a fan of yours for a long time, Mr. Haines. In fact, I follow everything you do. 
 MME. DARVILLE Mr. Antony has been telling us such charming stories... Very funny. 
 
 
 
 
 BARBARA'S VOICE Guy! 
 (Sotto voce) I've just been talking to your shadow. (very impressed) Guy, did you know Mr. Hennessy helped crack that axe murder I was reading about? You know, the one where the body was cut up and hidden in the butcher shop? He was locked in the ice box with the left leg for six hours! 
 He pulls those yarns right out of his hat, Babs. 
 
 Who's the nice looking Frenchman with the Darvilles? 
 He's not French.    His name's Antony. 
 How do you do, Madame Darville. Monsieur. 
 
 BARBARA'S VOICE How are you? FRENCH COUPLES' VOICES Delightful to see you. How sweet you look, Miss Barbara. 
 I hope you aren't forgetting our little party on Thursday, Madame. 
 MME. DARVILLE We are planning on it? 
 M. But of course. 
 This is my sister Barbara.       Barbara, this is Mr. Antony. 
 
 
 INSERT: LETTER 
 
 Hiya, Hennessy. Won't keep you out late tonight. (getting into his dinner jacket) With Forest Hills coming up tomorrow, I've got to get some sleep. 
 (helping himself to a cigarette) That's too bad. Hammond takes over in a couple of hours. I'd like to see him earn his salary. 
 Doesn't that bloodhound over relax? He sticks so close he's beginning to grow on me -- like a fungus. 
 (mildly) He thinks you're a very suspicious character. He doesn't trust anybody! Not even himself. 
 Come on. (indicating at Hennessy overcoat) Don't forget your sleeping bag. 
 (taking his time) Yeah, If I have to wait too long on the sidewalk my feet get cold. And if I sit too long on those stone steps, my -- 
 (quickly) Don't worry. Since you told Barbara Burton about the icebox, you're her favorite charity. She'll send the butler out with something to defrost you. 
 (grinning) Cute kid. 
 (to new arrival) Thank you so much, Mr. Lindsay. We'll look forward to it. 
 
 Good evening, Miss Burton. 
 This is Mr. Antony, father. 
 How do you do, sir. 
 I'd like to talk to you sometime, Senator, about my idea of harnessing the life force. It will make atomic power look like the horse and buggy. (the Senator and Anne are beginning to look at him in amazement) I'm already developing my faculty for seeing millions of miles. And, Senator, can you imagine being able to smell a flower on the planet of Mars? I'd like to lunch with you some day soon and tell you more about it. 
 (to Senator) So nice to see you, my dear Senator. 
 Ah yes, indeed -- I beg your pardon? 
 (still looking after Bruno) I don't remember inviting that young man. Who is he? 
 A friend of the Darvilles. 
 He has an unusual personality. Provocative. 
 
 
 
 But tell me, Judge, after you've sentenced a man to the chair, isn't it difficult to go and eat your dinner after that? 
 Young man, when a murderer is caught, he must be tried. When he is convicted, he must be sentenced. When he is sentenced to death, he must be executed. 
 Quite impersonal, isn't it, sir? 
 So it is. Besides, it doesn't happen every day. 
 So few murderers are caught. 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM Well, Mr. Antony, you seem very interested in the subject of murder. 
 No more than anyone else.   No more than you, for instance. 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM Me?   I'm not interested in murder. 
 (his tone is teasing) Oh, come now, everyone's interested in that. Everyone would like to put someone out of the way. Now surely, Madame, you're not going to tell me that there hasn't been a time when you wanted to dispose of someone. Your husband, for instance. 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM (laughs) Good heavens, no! 
 (playfully) Ah ah! (shaking a finger    at her) Are you sure? Do you  mean to tell me there wasn't a tiny moment - when you'd been made really angry? And what did you say? 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM (squirms, giggling) Well... 
 There you are, you see! There you are! All right, now you're going -- to do a murder. How are you going to do it? This is the fascinating part -- how are you going to do it...I didn't get your name? 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM Mrs. Cunningham. 
 Mrs. Cunningham, how are you going to do it? 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM (entering into the spirit of the play) Well, I suppose I'll have to get a gun from somewhere. 
 (shakes his head) Tssk, tssk. Oh no, Mrs. Cunningham. (MORE) 
 BRUNO (CONT'D) Bang, bang, all over the place. Blood everywhere? 
 MRS. ANDERSON What about a little poison? 
 Ah! That's better, that's better. Mrs.....? 
 MRS. ANDERSON Anderson. 
 (he is thoroughly enjoying himself) That's better, Mrs. Anderson. But Mrs. Cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. Poison could take...let's see...ten to twelve weeks, if poor Mr. Cunningham is to die from natural causes. 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze. 
 (looks at her deprecatingly) And then have to walk all that way home? 
 No, I have the best way, and the best tools. (he holds out his hands and shows them) Simple, silent, and quick. The silent part being the most important. Let me show you what I mean. (MORE) 
 BRUNO (CONT'D) (he raises his hands toward Mrs. Cunningham's throat, then stops a moment to ask) You don't mind if I borrow your neck for a moment do you? 
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM (giggles) Well, it's not for long. 
 Oh!  no. (he takes a drink and puts his glass down) Now, when I nod my head, just see if you can cry out, and I bet you can't. (he places his hands around Mrs. Cunningham's neck) Now with my two thumbs...you see that's where I'll be able to prevent any sound coming from you. Now, just wait for the nod of my head. 
 
 
 Stop him!   Stop him! 
 Bruno's wrists and hands and the neck of his victim. We can just see Mrs. Cunningham's chin at the top of the screen. Her head is tossing from side to side. Her hands are clutching at Bruno's wrists. The hands of the other two women, also in the picture, are pulling at Bruno's wrists. Mrs. Cunningham's hands begin to slide off. Her head drops back. 
 Stop him! Help, somebody! Pull him off! Mr. Antony! Mr. Antony! 
 
 Bring him this way. 
 (thru the babble) Bring her upstairs. 
 I thought he was a bit weird when he arrived. Who is he? 
 I hardly know him, sir. 
 Get him out of here as soon as you decently can -- will you. This is a nice item for the gossips. First thing you know, they'll be talking about orgies. I'd better get back... 
 Yes, sir. 
 What happened? I was on a merry-go- round somewhere. It made me dizzy. 
 (disgusted) You're a mad, crazy maniac, and you ought to be locked-up! Now will you get out of here and let me alone? 
 But, Guy -- 
 You shouldn't have done that, Guy. 
 (subsiding) Come on -- pull yourself together. Do your tie up. 
 Here -- let me. 
 Have you got a car here? 
 (mumbling) Driver's outside. 
 
 What's the matter, Barbara? Did you see it happen? Did you see it -- all? 
 
 (still shaken) He looked at me! His hands were on her throat, but, he was strangling me! 
 
 (aghast) How do you mean? 
 He was looking at her first. Then he looked over at me. He went into a sort of trance (shudders) He looked horrible! (reflectively) He thought he was murdering me. 
 
 Anne, why me? Why me?   What did I have to do with it? 
 Do you know where Guy is? 
 He went out with that man! 
 She calls out urgently: 
 Guy! 
 You didn't meet him for the first time the other day, did you, Guy? 
 You mean when you introduced us at the club? 
 Yes. Did you notice how he stared at Barbara that day? 
 (awkwardly) Well, I didn't -- particularly -- 
 (breaks in) He stared at her again tonight -- while his hands were around Mrs. Cunningham's throat. 
 What did Miriam look like, Guy. 
 (awkwardly) Well, why do you ask me? You've seen her pictures in the paper. 
 Go on, I want you to tell me. 
 (haltingly) Well, she was dark, not too tall, rather pretty -- 
 What else? 
 What else is there? 
 She wore glasses, didn't she? 
 Yes. 
 She looked a lot like Barbara, didn't she? 
 How did you get him to do it, Guy. 
 I get him to do it? 
 He killed Miriam, didn't he?   Tell me, Guy! 
 Yes. (suddenly bursting out) He's a maniac. I met him on the train going to Metcalf. He had a crazy scheme about exchanging murders. I do his murder and he do mine. 
 (quietly) What do you mean -- your murder, Guy? 
 Well, he'd read about me in the paper. He knew about Miriam -- and about you. He suggested that  if he got rid of Miriam for me, I should kill his father. 
 You must have realized he was talking a lot of nonsense! 
 Of course! I didn't give it another thought. And now a lunatic wants me to kill his father. 
 (beginning to believe) It's too fantastic! 
 (grimly) Yes, isn't it? 
 You mean you've known about Miriam all this time? 
 Since the first night.   He gave me her glasses. 
 Why didn't you call the police? 
 (bitterly) And have them say what you did -- "Mr. Haines, how did you get him to do it?" And Bruno would say we'd planed it together. 
 Oh, Guy -- what can we do? 
 I don't know, Anne...I don't know. 
 (With an anxious look across the street) Guy, hadn't we better go inside? Your friend Hennessy's watching us. (she Shudders) 
 (sadly) You see, Anne, that's why I didn't want you to know anything about this. I wanted to protect all of you -- your father, Barbara. And now that you know, you're acting guilty, too. 
 (desperately) Oh, if we could only talk to father or someone about it. 
 No, that's no good, Anne. I mustn't drag anyone else into this mess. Come on. Let's go in. 
 (a little glum) Hello, Hammond. 
 You look worried. What's the matter? 
 You'd better keep on your toes. Something funny's going on. 
 Bruno? Yes, yes, it's Guy...I've decided to do what you want. I'll make that little visit to father.... (listens a moment) Tonight. (listens another moment) Yes, I want to get this thing over with, can you leave the house again, Bruno? (pause) You'd better stay out till daylight. 
 
 
: 
 Mr. Antony! 
 
 (urgently) Mr. Antony! Don't be alarmed -- but I must talk to you about your son. About Bruno. Mr. Antony! 
 Yes, Mr. Haines? 
 
 (politely) My father isn't home tonight, Mr. Haines. (smiles grimly at Guy's surprise) I was about to tell you that over the phone. But you came to such a sudden decision. I wondered why. 
 (recovering quickly) Since you sent me a key to your house, I decided to use it -- to make a little social call on your father. I thought he'd be Interested to know he his a lunatic son. 
 Then a I correct, Mr. Haines, in assuming that you have no intention of going ahead with our arrangement? 
 No intention whatsoever.      I never had. 
 I see. You won't have any further use for the key, then, Mr. Haines. (he holds out his hand and Guy gives him the key) Thank you very such. 
 Or this. 
 (kindly) Look, Bruno. You're terribly sick. (haltingly) I don't know whether it's possible for you to realize it or not. I don't know much about these things, Bruno. But why don't you go someplace where you can get some treatment? Not only for your own sake, Bruno, but you can't go on causing more and more destruction to anyone you happen to meet. 
 I don't like to be doublecrossed. (MORE) 
 BRUNO (CONT'D) I have a murder on my conscience, but it's not my murder, Mr. Haines -- it's yours. And as you're the one to profit, I think you should be the one to pay for it. 
 (gives up) Well, I guess it's no use, Bruno. We sees to have nothing further to discuss. Bruno goes to the door in silent acquiescence and opens it for Guy to pass through. 
 Don't worry. I'm not going to shoot you, Mr. Haines. It might disturb mother. (with a feeling of power) I'm a very clever follow. I'll think of something better than that. Much better. 
 (in the middle of his story) He came back at three twenty-five. I didn't even know he'd given me the slip until his 'phone kept ringing for about half an hour. Nobody sleeps that sound. So I got the janitor to let me in. No Haines. 
 (to himself) Wonder where he went? 
 We'll probably hear of another dame murdered. 
 (puzzled) Shut up. I'd better contact Metcalf. I should think this calls for more questioning of Mr. Haines. 
 Questioning?     Nuts!   Let's take him in. 
 My dear Mr. Hamond, how many times do I have to tell you that we have nothing conclusive on Haines? There's no evidence that he was ever at the scene of the crime. Can't you get that into your thick head? (quietly) Now stay put till I get back. 
 MRS. ANTONY Oh, now, Miss Burton, really! I know Bruno's been in some very awkward scrapes, but nothing so ridiculous as a murder. (she gives a short little laugh) 
 (desperately) But, Mrs. Antony, you've got to make him do something about this. Don't you see that just one word from him would extricate Guy from this dreadful situation? 
 MRS. ANTONY (lightly) Oh, but Miss Burton, I'm sure this thing must be some practical joke. You know, Bruno sometimes goes too far. (girl to girl) Of course I shouldn't be saying this to an outsider, but sometimes he's terribly irresponsible and gets into all kinds of escapades. 
 But don't you understand, Mrs. Antony -- your son is responsible for a woman's death. 
 MRS. ANTONY (drawing herself up with some hauteur) Did Bruno tell you this? 
 Of course not, Mrs. Antony. 
 MRS. ANTONY (that settles it) Well, there you are. (MORE) 
 BRUNO'S VOICE Oh, Miss Burton! 
 I'm afraid mother wasn't very helpful, was she? (he strolls toward Anne) You know she hasn't been well for a long time. She's a little -- how shall I say -- confused. (shakes his head commiseratingly) Poor mother. 
 You know, I'm very upset with Guy. He shouldn't have sent you on an errand like this. 
 Guy doesn't know I'm here, Mr. Antony. 
 He's been leading you up the garden path, I'm afraid. He must be very desperate to try to involve me. I've been protecting him ever since we had that conversation on the train and he told me how he hated his wife. 
 Why, do you know, Miss Burton, he tried to get me to go back to the island one night after dark and pick up his lighter so the police wouldn't find it? He dropped it there, you know, when -- well, that night. 
 The whole thing's been worrying me so much. But of course I couldn't do it, Miss Burton. It would have been too risky. And besides, it would have made me an accessory. 
 Miss Burton, I know how you feel. 
 Miss Burton, you must excuse me. I have an urgent appointment. (looks it his watch) I must go up and change. Now, I really must go...if you'll excuse me... 
 ...And he said that if the police found your lighter there, that's all they'd need -- something to prove you were at the scene of the murder. 
 (grimly) That big lie about my wanting him to get it back means he's going to put my lighter on that island! 
 (urgently) Guy, you'll have to get there before he does. You won't have time to play, You'd better tell them. (she nods her head in the direction of the center court) 
 Darling, if that loudspeaker announces that I'm not going to play, Hennessy bound to be suspicious He'd keep me from ever getting near Metcalf. 
 Then I'll go. 
 (quickly) No, darling. (he puts his hand on hers and speaks firmly, with concern for her safety as well as for his own situation) You stay right here and help me give Hennessy the slip after the match. 
 But, Guy, that'll be too late! 
 (getting a thought) Didn't Bruno say that I wanted him together there one night after dark? 
 Yes. 
 Well, that's what's in his mind now. He's not going to expose himself in broad daylight, If I can finish off this match in three sets, I'll still get there in time. 
 We're on in a few minutes, Guy. (to Anne) How are you, Miss Morton. 
 Okay, Tim.   Be right with you. 
 Well, if Turley said to pick him up for questioning, let's pick him up! 
 Let him have his game first, Hammond. 
 (sourly) This is the first time I ever waited for a murder suspect to play tennis before I pulled him in. When the boys it headquarters heir about this they'll send me orchids. Guy and Anne come into the scene just as the players from the previous match emerge. They pass through, nodding to Hennessy. 
 Good luck, Guy. 
 You got it straight? (ANNE nods) Just make sure Barbara has everything ready as soon as the third set starts. 
 --It looks like an interesting match with Haines constantly charging the net -- not like Haines at all -- to press so early in the game... 
 Well, at least there'd be a trip to Australia, if you made it. 
 (absently) We'll know more about that by the end of the week... (his face brightens as he sees Anne) 
 They're close to the finish, Guy 
 Be right there. (turns to Anne) I was afraid you wouldn't get here. Wish me luck, darling. 
 (quickly and urgently) Guy, listen to me, If I sound all mixed up I can't help it. I -- I'm scared. 
 What about? 
 That's just it. I don't know. It's Bruno. I talked to him, Guy -- 
 He acted peculiar -- as if he could put the murder right in your lap, and not involve himself at all. 
 (shaking his head) He'd drag himself into it, -- and Bruno loves Bruno. I'm all right so long as he thinks I have an alibi for that night. (noticing the stricken look on Anne is face) He knows? 
 (grimly) Then he'll think of something.   He said he would. 
 Guy, has he anything that the police could trace to you -- (quoting Bruno) Any little thing. 
 My cigarette lighter. He said once he could have left it on the islands as evidence (a pause) But he wouldn't do that. Not in broad day light. 
 (trying to think) But he's going somewhere, Guy.   He told his mother -- 
 (tensely) Metcalf -- did he say Metcalf? 
 No, -- I don't think so. Oh, why can't I remember -- he said such crazy things! 
 (tensely) Try to think, Anne! 
 
 (OFFSCENE) Guy Haines! -- Reynolds! 
 Something about the moon -- he said he had an appointment with the moon. 
 That's no help. But I can't take any chances. I've got to get that lighter -- somehow. 
 Okay, Guy.   We're on. 
 I'll have to default. 
 And have Hennessy and that other one right at your heels? 
 First time I ever waited for a killer to play tennis before I nabbed him! (MORE) 
 HAMMOND (CONT'D) When the boys at headquarters hear about this they'll send me an orchid! 
 We got our orders. We take him in -- after the match. 
 (a little sadly) Good luck, Guy! Guy gives him a thank-you nod. Hammond rolls his eyes in disgust at Hennessy's politeness. 
 The moon! You said he had an appointment -- 
 Then he is going to Metcalf. But he has to wait until it gets dark -- (with frantic haste, he thinks quickly, then murmurs to Anne) Listen, Anne, as soon as the third set starts, tell Barbara -- 
 It looks like an interesting match -- with Haines out to blast Reynolds into a fast fight, -- not like Haines at all -- to press so early in the game... 
 Stupid game. You'd never get me into them short pants. I'd feel naked. 
 (his eyes intent on the game) You'd feel naked in an Eskimo suit -- if you weren't wearing your badge. 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S.) Mr. Haines wins the first set. 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE Game to Mr. Reynolds. Games are two all...Second set. 
: 
 
 
 Game to Mr. Reynolds. Games are three all... second set. 
 May I have a light, please? 
 
 
 
 
 
 Second set to Haines.   Haines leads two sets to love. 
 If he wins this next set -- you'd better have everything ready. (takes bill from her purse and hands it to Barbara) Here -- give the driver this ten dollars. 
 (puzzled) I wish understood what this is all about! 
 (urgently) You don't have to understand, just do it. And for heaven's sake, act natural. 
 
 Love fifteen. 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S.) Love thirty. 
 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S.) Double fault. Love forty. 
 -- Haines hasn't let up his terrific pace for an instant, smashing every (MORE) 
 ANNOUNCER (CONT'D) ball with a recklessness we've never seen in his playing. It's beginning to look as if he doesn't care whether he wins or loses because he's in a hurry - an awfully big hurry --- 
 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S) Game to Mr. Reynolds. Mr. Reynolds leads five games to three in the third set. 
 Down there -- my -- my cigarette -- (catches himself -- not wanting to say "cigarette lighter") case. It's very valuable. 
 (peering down) Down here? 
 You've got to get this grating up right away. Two passersby enter. 
 What's the trouble? 
 (yelling) Can't we do something...! (to passerby) I dropped my cigarette case. 
 (looking down) Mightn't be any good, mister. Probably gone down the storm drain. 
 (horrified) Storm drain? 
 On the other hand, it might have lodged on the edge. 
 Don't they have a trap down there -- like under a sink? 
 (excited) Don't just stand here -- do something! 
 (calmly) Guess we could phone the city engineer, all right. (MORE) 
 PORTER (CONT'D) Worst he could do would be to tell me to take a running jump and -- (Bruno grabs his arm. Porter shakes Bruno off) Relax, mister. 
 I don't want to relax. 
 (with great excitement) This is more than a tennis game, ladies and gentlemen -- it's a desperate fight with Guy Haines playing as if his life depended on it! 
 
 
 Game to Mr. Haines. Mr. Reynolds leads five games to four...third set. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advantages, Mr. Haines. 
 
 
 
 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S) Duece! 
 
 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S) Advantage, Mr. Reynolds. 
 unable to bear the suspense.    She glances O.S. 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S) Score is deuce. 
 UMPIRE'S VOICE (O.S) Advantage, Mr. Reynolds. 
 
 -- Haines hasn't let up for a moment. If he wins this set, he wins the whole match! 
 (breathlessly) Isn't it wonderful, Mr. Hennessy? He won! It calls for a celebration. Anne says you must have dinner with us. Just the family, and you, and Guy. 
 (awkwardly) Sorry I can't make it.   Business. 
 But Guy is your business.   You'll be with him, won't you? 
 (a little grimly) Yeah -- I'll be with Guy. 
 Guy says you love steak -- rare, Medium, or well-done? 
 I sure wish I could -- 
 
 Hennessy! 
 
 If you'll pardon us, madam, we need your help. We're chasing a man. 
 How exciting. (MORE) 
 DOWAGER (CONT'D) (she leans forward and calls to the chauffeur) Hurry, O'Toole! Hurry! 
 
 
 
 You sure must think a lot of that -- Whatever it is. 
 (to the driver) The amusement park, quick. 
 Amusement park. 
 (to boatman) The killer is here tonight. So keep your eyes open and the minute you see him, let us know. 
 Hey, Bruno. 
 Haines!   Hold it! Hold it! 
 I want to get off of here! Let me off of here! It makes me dizzy. 
 Stop it, Bruno.   Give me my lighter, Bruno! 
 (to Turley, puzzled; indicating the merry- go-round) Who's the man he's fighting with on there? 
 (excited) There he is! That's the one!    That's the one who killed her! 
 Of course he is. We know that. 
 Get somebody to come and stop that thing! 
 I'll handle it. 
 (calls after him) Hey! Be careful! Stop! 
 
 
 
 Get back. Get back there.    Give us room here. 
 Are you all right, Haines? 
 Yes, I think so. 
 Mr. Turley! Mr. Turley! (indicating boatman) He says this isn't the man we want. (with a nod in Guy's direction) It's the other one -- the one he was fighting with. 
 (stops to give his full attention to this unexpected bit of information) What   do you mean, this isn't the -- (turns to Guy, not quite taking it in) Not   Haines? (back to boatman) But   you said he was. You pointed him   out. 
 No, I didn't, sir. I've never seen this man before in my life. I meant the other one. 
 What is this all about, Haines?        Did you know he killed your wife? 
 (nods) He has my cigarette   lighter and wanted to plant it there on   the island to pin the whole thing   on me. (urgently) Let me talk to him.      Let me show you. Where is he? 
 Over here. 
 This one's in a pretty bad way, Mr. Turley. 
 (looking down at Bruno) Can't you get that stuff off him? 
 No, they've done everything they can until the crane comes. 
 Hello, Guy. 
 (weakly nodding at Turley) Who's that? 
 This is Mr. Turley, Chief of Police. 
 (with a half smile) So they got you at last, eh, Guy? 
 (rather gently) Can you talk a little? Can you tell the chief you have my lighter? 
 (with a faint, quizzical smile) I haven't got it. It's still on the island where you left it. 
 (looking down at Bruno) I think he's going. 
 DETECTIVE'S VOICE He's finished. 
 Is this your lighter, Haines? 
 Well, you were right. (sticks the lighter into his own pocket) I'd better keep this for the time being. (in a friendly tone) We can clear the whole thing out the morning. How about staying in town over night, Haines? I imagine you have a lot to tell me. Nine o'clock, all right? 
 (nods) Okay, Mr. Turley.   Thanks. 
 Can you tell me where there's a telephone? 
 (indicating) There's one up near the entrance. (with a look back to the dead Bruno) Who was he, Bud? 
 Bruno. Bruno Antony. (reminiscently and a little compassionately, remembering what Bruno had said of himself) A very clever fellow. 
 (into phone) Hello... (impatiently) Yes, operator, yes! (waits a moment, then eagerly:) Guy? (MORE) 
 ANNE (CONT'D) (a pause, then she closes her eyes with heartfelt relief. Another pause, then:) Yes, darling, yes. Of course I'll be there...Goodbye. 
 Guy'll be back tomorrow. (overcome with emotion she has difficulty in speaking) He wants me to take him some things. 
 He says he looks silly in his tennis clothes. 
 I presume from all those tears that you have had good news. 
 I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines? 
 
