 
. 
 HAWKEYE'S THUMB 
 
 
 KILLDEER'S TRIGGER 
 is a huge elk that leaps at the sound. 
 KILLDEER'S MUZZLE 
 
 (low Mohican; sub-titled) We're sorry to kill you, Brother. Forgive us. I do honor to your courage and speed, your strength ... 
 FENCE: CHINGACHGOOK 
 Halloo! John Cameron! 
 Alexandria! Set three more places. (to the fence) How is Chingachgook, then? 
 The Master of Life is good. Another year pass ... How is it with you, John? 
 Gettin' along. Yes, it is. (warm) Nathaniel. 
 Hello John. Cleared another quarter, I see. 
 (shakes hands with Uncas) Yes, I did. 
 
 If Uncas is with you, that means he has not found a woman and started a family yet. 
 Your eyes are too sharp, Alexandria Cameron. They see into my heart. 
 Your farm good to you this year, John? 
 It was a good year for corn. 
 Mohawk field we saw was 5 mile long on the river. Chief Joseph Brandt's field. 
 You take much fur? 
 That we did. John. But the horicane (sic) is near trapped out. 
 Tradin' your skins in Castleton? 
 No, Schylerville. With the Dutch for silver. French & English want to buy with wampum & brandy. 
 So what is it, Jack? What brings you up here? 
 A French & Indian army out of Fort Carillon's heading south to war against the English. I'm here to raise this county's militia to aid the British defense. 
 Folks here goin' to join in that fight? 
 We'll see in the morning ... 
 Fathers of England & France, both, take more land, furs, than they need. They're cold & full of greed ... 
 Few'd deny that? Where you headin'? 
 Trap over the fall and winter among the Delawares in Can-tuck-ee. 
 So I can find a woman and make Mohican children so our father will leave my brother & me in peace. 
 A son like me? 
 No. You are too strong. Turn me old too fast! 
 That's what he's doin' to his mama ... 
 Dear Father, thank you for rewardin' the fruits of our labor with plenty. Amen. 
 (O.S. in French) 
 (translates) My father says he was driven out of France by the black robe priests and he would fight them now but he lost his arm and so I will go in his place. 
 
 John Cameron, thank you for your hospitality ... Twin River Mohawk got no quarrel with Les Francais. Trade furs with Les Francais. Now Les Francais bring Huron onto Mohawk hunting grounds ... 
 (continues) Now Mohawk will fight Huron and Les Francais. My brothers have asked me to lead them in this war so I speak for the Twin River Council. 
 His Majesty King George II is very grateful for your support. 
 To Fort William Henry. 
 #1 ... two days from here. 
 It should be enough to remind you France is the enemy. 
 Your enemy ... 
 What did you say? 
 (loud) I said ... France is your enemy. Not ours. 
 Really? Do you want them to overrun all New York colony? 
 First place, you started it with the French over fur-trapping claims to the head waters of the Ohio. (smiles) Now you're sayin' these people have a fight on their hands ... 
 (ignoring Hawkeye) Will you men help us stop the French? 
 ... and while they are cooped up in your fort, what if the French send war parties to raid their homes? 
 For your own homes, for king, for country, that's why you men ought to join this fight! 
 You do what you want with your own scalp. Do not be tellin' us what to do with ours. 
 (furious; to Hawkeye) You, sir! You call yourself a loyal subject? 
 ... No ... Do not call myself much of a subject at all. 
 #2 Nathaniel's right. But if I got to fight, figure I'll try and do it fifty miles north of here instead of my bean field. 
 Yes. Yeah. No ... 
 I am stayin' on my farm. And any man who goes, his family is welcome to fort-up with us 'til he comes back. 
 Boys. My sense of it is enough of us will join-up to fill the county's levy. But only if General Webb accepts a few terms I got in mind ... 
 HAWKEYE & UNCAS 
 (O.S.) Webb? what's that, Jack ...? 
 We had our say, Ian. 
 
 
 (O.S.) ... if they are not allowed leave to defend their families if the French or Hurons attack the settlements, no colonial militia is goin' to Fort William Henry. 
 (low) You, there. Help my man outside with the baggage. 
 They will report or be pressed into service! 
 They will be found! Arrested ... 
 (cuts in) I cannot imagine his Majesty, in his benevolence, would ever object to his American subjects defending their hearth & home, their women & children, if threatened by the "scourge" of attack from savages, aroused to such excess by our enemy, the ever-perfidious French. 
 Does that mean they will be granted leave to defend their homes if the settlements are attacked? 
 Of course. 
 You got yourself a colonial militia, General. 
 Major Duncan Heyward reporting, Sir! 
 Duncan. How was your journey? 
 I didn't experience anything so surprising from Bristol to Albany as what I witnessed here today. 
 And what is that? 
 The Crown "negotiating" the terms of service? 
 I know. (assuming a co-commiserator) One has to give Americans "reasons" and make agreements to get them to do anything at all. Tiring, isn't it? (throws up his hands) But that's the way of it here. 
 (tight) I thought British policy is 'Make the World ... England', sir. 
 You will take command of the 62nd Regiment of Foot. At Fort William Henry under Colonel Munro. I will march the 33rd to Fort Edward. 
 Sir! ... Might I enquire if General Webb has heard from Colonel Munro's daughters? I was to rendezvous with them in Albany and escort them to the fort. 
 Yes. You may. (to Magua, after a glance at Heyward) You there. What does Munro call you? (to Heyward) The "Scotsman" has sent one of his Indian allies to guide you. 
 
 The Scotsman's daughters are at the Poltroon's house. A company of the 33rd will accompany you and Magua will show you the way. 
 By your leave, sir. 
 (to Adjutants) Explain to the Major we care little about toying with colonial militia because we have little to fear from the French. They have not the nature for war. Their Latinate voluptuousness combines with their Gallic laziness and the result is: they would rather make love with their faces than fight. 
 (continuing) Dismissed. 
 (to Magua) Dawn. At the encampment. Six a.m. sharp. See to it you're there. 
 (O.S.) Heyward! Duncan Heyward. 
 My God it's good to see you. 
 I'm embarrassed to be so indecisive ... after so long apart and after you've traveled so far ... 
 And by sea! 
 You still have an aversion to the water? 
 Aversion? No. ... "Hatred" ... "Loathing" ... 
 But it was worth it all to end in a garden by your side. 
 (difficult) Dear Duncan, my affection is as towards a closest friend. Alice and I depend on you and respect you immensely ... I wish they did, but my feelings don't go beyond that. Do you see? 
 Isn't respect and friendship, a reasonable basis for a man and woman to be joined? And all else may grow in time ...? 
 Some say that's the way of it. 
 "Some"? 
 Cousin Eugenie, my father, but ... 
 (interrupts) Cora, in my heart, I know once we're joined, we'll be the happiest couple in England. Let those whom you trust, your father, help settle what's best for you. In view of your indecision, why not rely on their advice and judgment as well as mine? 
 Will you consider that? 
 (pause; smiles) Yes. Yes, I will. 
 (O.S.) Duncan! 
 My God, you've grown up. 
 We leave in the morning?! 
 (rises) Yes, miss. 
 I won't sleep tonight. What an adventure! I absolutely cannot wait to return to Portman Square, having laid eyes upon the full-blooded, red men in the wild! 
 My God, Alice. 
 (smiles) It can be dangerous ... 
 Nonsense. Papa wouldn't have sent for us if it were dangerous. 
 (O.S. - barks) Atten-shun! 
 (entering) Shoulder arms! 
 
 (barks) Form two companies of nine ... MARCH!! 
 
 
 (O.S.) Alice, did you see that ...? 
'S 
 Alice? 
 Are you alright? 
 Can we rest soon? 
 Absolutely. 
 You there, Scout! 
 (overly articulated) We must ... stop ... soon. Women are ... tired. You ... understand? 
 (perfect English) I understand. This is not good place to stop. Two leagues from here. No water 'til then. That where we stop. Better place. 
 No. Stop in the glade just ahead! When the ladies are rested, we will proceed. Do you understand? 
 (in Huron: English subtitle) "Magua understand paleface is a dog to his women. When his women want to eat, he lay aside his tomahawk to feed their laziness." 
 Excuse me. What did you say? 
 Magua say: "Yes. Good idea." 
 FRONTAL: CHINGACHGOOK 
 
 
 CLOSER - MAGUA'S 
 
 
 
 Form company! Left face! March! 
 
 
 CORA'S HORSE 
 ALICE'S HORSE 
 
 Company make ready! 
 Present!! 
 
 
 
 
 Fire!! 
: 
 (continuing) Load! Prime! 
 (continuing) Present! Present! 
 
'S 
 
 
 
'S 
 
'S 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No, Duncan! 
 HEYWARD'S MUSKET 
 ... case your aim is any better'n your judgment. 
 
 
'S 
 (O.S.) Stop it! 
 
 We need them to get out of here! 
 (to Nathaniel) ... why the bloody hell he do that to the horses?! 
 (matter of fact) ... too easy to track ... they can be heard for miles ... find yourself a musket ... 
 (to Heyward) Your wounded should try walkin' back to Albany. They'll never make a passage north. 
 (breathless) We were headed ... 
 (appropriating a knife) ... Fort William Henry. 
 
 ... take you as far as the fort. 
 If we are goin' to take you, we need to move. Fast ... And the fort is well off our course. So if you all rather wait for the next Huron war party to come by, we'll be on our way. 
 HAWKEYE'S FEET 
 
 How far is it, scout? 
 Day and a half (pause) Where did you get ... the guide? 
 Colonel Munro sent him. He was one of our Mohawk allies. 
 He is Huron and nothing else. (checking the Munro girls are not too close) Why would he want to murder the girl? 
 What?! 
 Dark haired ... 
 Miss Cora Munro. He never set eyes on her before today. 
 No blood vengeance? No re-proach or insult? 
 Of course not! (pause) And how is it you were nearby? 
 Came across the war party, tracked 'em. 
 Then you're assigned to Fort William Henry? 
 No. 
 Fort Edward, then? 
 No. Headin' west. To Can-tuck-ee. 
 I thought all our colonial scouts were in the militia? 
 I ain't your "scout". And I am in no damn militia. 
 (stops) Then you are one of those who would allow England to fight alone while she protects you from France? 
 England does not protect me and does not war against France on our account. She uses us to war against France on her own account ... of greed for land and furs. 
'S 
 (turns) Clear it up any? 
 (loud) I owe you gratitude or I'd call you out! 
 (low) Do not let gratitude get in the way ... 
 (to Hawkeye) Yengeese no good in woods. Make more noise, I kill him. 
 
 
 
 (O.S.) Anything to be done? 
 
 All dead ... 
 
 Who were these people? 
 (re: print) Ottawa! 
 Excuse me ... 
 (to Hawkeye) Ottawa. 
 
 Mirrors ... tools ... clothes ... all inside. 
 (to Chingachgook) Movin' fast, not able to carry much ... this was a war party? 
 Let us look after them ... 
 Leave them. 
 (hasn't moved) Though they are strangers, they are at least entitled to a Christian burial! 
 (shaking his head) Let us go, miss. 
 I will not. I have seen the face of war before, Mr. Poe, but never war made on women and children. And almost as cruel is your indifference. 
 (contained) Miss Munro. (pause) They are not strangers .... And they stay as they lay ...! 
 
 
 
 ALICE'S HEAD 
 
 Why didn't you bury those people? 
 Anyone lookin' to pick up our trail, would see it as a sign of our passing ... 
 You knew them. 
 (stiffly) You were acting for our benefit. And I apologize. I misunderstood you. 
 Well that is to be expected. My father ... 
 Your "father"? 
 Chingachgook. He warned me about people like you. 
 He did? 
 Yes. He said ... "do not try to make them understand you." 
 What?! 
 Yes. And "do not try to understand them. That is because they are a breed apart and they make no sense ..." 
 
 
 
 OTTAWA & FRENCH 
 
 
 
 UNCAS & ALICE 
 
 
 (quietly) Why did they turn back? 
 
 CORA & HAWKEYE 
 (still pissed off) "We're a breed apart and we make no sense" ...? 
 (smiles) In your particular case, miss, I would make some allowance ... 
 (sarcastic) Thank you so much. 
 You called Chingachgook your "father"? Where is your real family? 
 They buried my ma & pa and my sisters. And Chingachgook - who found me with two French trappers - raised me up as his own. 
 I'm sorry. 
 I do not remember them. I was one or two. 
 How did you learn English? 
 My father sent Uncas & I to Reverend Wheelock's school when I was ten. So we would know both worlds ... though we were told only bother learning readin' & arithmetic from yous. 
 And what were the consequentialities of European culture you didn't bother with? 
 The Bible. Monarchy. Many wrong ideas about the government of men. My father's people already know each man is his own nation. And only he can have dominion over himself. Not kings. No man is better than any other man. 
 In London those radical ideas could land you in Newgate prison. (changing the subject) Why were those people living in this defenseless place ...? 
 'Cos frontier land's the only land affordable to poor people. So after seven years indentured service in Virginia, they headed out here where they are beholden to none and not livin' by another's leave ... Their name was Cameron. John & Alexandria. 
 (continuing; looking up) My father's people say ... at the birth of the sun and of his brother, the moon, their mother died ... so the sun gave to the earth her body, from which was to spring all life. And he drew forth from her breast the stars. The stars he threw into the night sky to remind him of her soul. (the sky) So there is the Camerons' monument ... my folks', too, I guess. 
'S 
 (low) You are right, Mr. Poe. We do not understand what is happening here. And it is not as I imagined it would be, thinking of it in Boston and London ... 
 Sorry to disappoint you ... 
 (eyes downcast) On the contrary. It is more deeply stirring ... to my blood ... (then up into his eyes) ... than any imagining could possibly have been ... 
 Much further? 
 Top of this ridge. Fort and Lake George are downhill of it. 
 
 Will we be able to bathe? 
 Thunder ... Papa will arrange something. 
 
 The men of the regiment will fetch water from the lake, build fires and provide every comfort you desire, Alice ... 
 Duncan, you are absolutely gallant. If Cora doesn't marry you, I shall. 
 Alice! 
 I can't wait to see Papa ... 
 And you, Duncan? What are you looking forward to? 
 Posting to a different continent. 
 I think it's very important and exciting. 
 Lightning? 
 
 
 POV: BATTLEFIELD 
 
 #1 
. 
 #2 
. 
 - 
 
 I'm Major Duncan Heyward! 
 Captain Jeffrey Beams. We didn't think you'd make it through! 
 Where's Colonel Munro? His daughters are here, too. 
 
 (shouts over roar) Uncas! Nathaniel ... 
 
 (on the run) Didn't! 
 Dropped in to see how you boys is doin'. 
 
 (hysterical) Papa, Papa!! 
 (enraged) Why are you here?! 
 (to Heyward; re: Alice & Cora) Why did you allow them to come? ... And where the bloody hell are my reinforcements!! 
 (embracing his daughters; softer) Told you to stay away from this hell hole! Why did you disobey me? 
 When? How? 
 My letter ... 
 There was none! 
 What? 
 There was no letter. 
 I sent three men to Webb! 
 One called Magua arrived. 
 He delivered no such message. 
 Does Webb not even know we are besieged? 
 Sir. Webb has no idea. And he certainly does not know to send reinforcements! 
 (flat) What happened to you? 
 (suddenly tired) Ambush ... on the George Road. This Magua led us into it. (pause) ... eighteen killed. It's these men who saved us. They guided us here ... 
 Thank you. How can I reward you? 
 Help ourselves to a few horns from your powder stores. 
 What else? 
 Some food. 
 (to Uncas) I'm indebted to you. And get your side sewn up, young man. 
 
 (bellows) Mr. Phelps! 
 Miss Cora! How are you? 
 (smiles) Fine, Mr. Phelps. Have you cat gut and a suturing needle? (for Uncas) And we could use some rum, clothes, and a place to wash ... 
 
 (to Heyward over table map) What a place for them ... 
 Might I enquire after the situation, sir, given that I've seen of the French engineering from the ridge above? 
 (perfunctory) Logistics are his guns are bigger than mine and he has more of them. They keep our heads down while his sappers make thirty yards of trench a day. His thirteen inch mortars have a two hundred yard range, so when they're close enough, they'll move them in, lob explosive rounds over our walls and pound us to dust. 
 They look to be three hundred yards out. You have three days. 
 Bloody murderers. 
 A man, here, can make a run straight through to Webb. 
 ... not enough time to get to Albany and back with reinforcements ... 
 Webb's not in Albany. He marched the 33rd to Fort Edward two days ago. 
 Webb's at Edward? 
 Yes, sir. 
 Only twelve miles away! He could be here day after tomorrow. (to Hawkeye) Find your man, sir! Captain Beams will give you the message. 
 John Cameron's cabin. We come upon it last night. Burned out. Everyone murdered. And it was Ottawa. They're allied to the French. 
 Yes, Mr. Poe? So? 
 It was a war party. It means they're on the attack up and down the frontier. 
 (cold) Thank you. 
 Many men here, their homes are in the path. 
 That's all, sir. 
 Things were done. Nobody was spared ... 
 Terrible feature of war in the Americas. (beat; a mantra) Best to keep your sight fixed on our duty. Our duty is to defeat France. That hangs on a courier to Webb. 
 
 (low) ... and the Black Robes of Michilimackinac left us no time to put our cabins in order before telling us our French father had need of our aid. We rolled our blankets and were the first to be here. Yet we are not the first and closest to my father's campfire. 
 
 (to Seneca Chief) For my children and the children of the true faith, my friendship and esteem is boundless ... I will give you three oxen for a feast and tomorrow I, myself, will sing the war song with you in the great council house. 
 Le Renard Subtil, how are things with your English friends? 
 (over his shoulder) Louis Antoine, join us. 
 Hear what le Subtil has to tell us ... 
 English war chief, Webb goes to Fort Edward with 33rd Regiment. He does not know my father's army attacks Fort William Henry. 
 But by now Munro knows his couriers didn't get through. He'll send another. 
 The Grey Hair will try. 
 Four or five, including two women entered the fort ... 
 The Grey Hair's children were under Magua's knife but escaped. They'll be under it again. 
 Why do hate the Grey Hair, Magua? 
 When the Grey Hair is dead, Magua will eat his heart. Before he dies Magua will put his children under the knife so the Grey Hair will see his seed is wiped out forever. 
 My sappeurs are advancing the trenches through the night, now. You may have your opportunity soon. 
 (O.S.) She know what she's doin'? 
 First assisted me in Austria when she was fourteen. I would say she does ... 
 She does not shy away from much ... 
 (elsewhere) What's that? 
 Nothin'. 
 (O.S.) Miss Cora? Gentleman looking for you. 
 
 (looks up) Mr Poe? 
 Miss. (re: cotton) May I? 
 (to Uncas) You 'bout done holdin' hands with Miss Munro? 
 What are you looking at, Mr. Poe? 
 Why, I am looking at you, Miss. 
 
 You told him about the raid? 
 (nods) He does not want to hear it. (pause) But he is gonna have to. 
 (to one man) Get together by the West Battery James & Ian, Sharitarish & William. 
 Tight weave. 
 Another forty yards? 
 
 A FRONTIERSMAN - COURIER 
 Sergeant! Form three ranks! 
 MOHAWKS & HIGHLANDERS 
 Fire!!! 
 REVERSE: FRENCH 
 Advance, Sergeant Major! 
 Fire!!! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sergeant Major! 
 Thank you, Sergeant Major. Thank the men. 
 TROOPERS & MILITIA 
 CORA & ALICE 
 Cora ... I wanted to talk to you, but I'll come back another time ... 
 Alice ... 
 Talk to Duncan, Cora ... I must manage ... I cannot be an invalid schoolgirl. (starts for door) I'll see if Mr. Phelps needs anything ... 
 I'm sorry, I didn't mean to ... 
 Her nerves are shattered. She's trying to be brave. 
 Cora, I adore you and, when we come together, we will be the happiest couple in England ... I am certain of that. More than ever before. (softens) I believe you must trust the judgment of others who hold your welfare so close to their hearts ... 
 Duncan ... (pause) Duncan, I promised you an answer. You have complimented me with your persistence and patience ... But the decision I've come to is I'd rather make the gravest of mistakes than surrender my own judgment. 
 And it's been unfair to you, while I search myself for feelings, which, if they were there and as strong as they ought to be, would've made themselves known long ago ... (pause) Take my admiration and friendship, Duncan. And please take this as my final answer. It must be no. 
 I see ... 
 I am sorry, Duncan ... 
 (O.S.) ... it was no raidin' party out for pillage. The cabin was attacked by a war party. They are sweeping south down the frontier spreading terror among farms and Mohawk villages 'cos all the men are here. 
 (to Jack) I must receive proof more conclusive than Mr. Poe's opinion before I weaken our defenses by allowing militia to withdraw. 
 Chingachgook's of the same opinion. Taken together, that's gospel. Your fort will	 stand or fall depending on Webb and reinforcements, not these colonials' presence. 
 I judge military matters, Captain Winthrop, not you. 
 That judgment is not more important than their right under agreement with Webb to defend their farms & families ... Major Heyward was at John Cameron's. He saw what it was. 
 (looking to Heyward for confirmation of his point of view) What did you see, Major? 
 
 
 
 
 (to Munro) I saw nothing that would lead me to the conclusion it was other than a raid by savages bent on thievery. 
 You're a liar! 
'S 
 
 
 And the blood is on your hands! 
 (to Heyward) I'll have none of that! (to colonials) Montcalm is a soldier and a gentleman. Not a butcher. 
 Easy for you to suppose. While it is their women and children, not yours, alone in their farms! 
 (exploding) You forget yourself! 
 We are not forgettin' Webb's promise! 
 British promises are honored. And the militia will not be released. Because I need more definite proof than this man's word! 
 Nathaniel's word been good on the frontier a long time before you got here! 
 This interview's over! The militia stays! 
 (to Munro) Does the rule of English law no longer govern? Has it been replaced by absolutism? 
 And if English law cannot be trusted, maybe these people would do better makin' a peace with the French! 
 That is sedition! Treason! 
 That is the truth! 
 (restaining himself) I ought to have you whipped from this fort! 
 Major! (changes down) Some day I think you and I are gonna have a serious disagreement. 
 (steel) Anyone fomenting or advocating leaving Fort William Henry will be hung for sedition. Anyone leaving will be shot for desertion. (pause) My decision is final. Get out. 
 (low) ... got no kin in the settlements. If I did, I'd be long gone. 
 By my light that's how I saw it then and I see it that way now ... 
 (low) I believe if they set aside their law as and when they wish, their law no longer has rightful authority over us. All they have over us is tyranny, then. And I'll stay here no longer. No force on earth will keep me here ... Anyone caught leavin' the fort could be shot. So each man make your own decision ... Those who are goin', be back here in an hour. 
 Out the northern sally-port. Strike for the east side of the swamp until you clear the French picket line. Head north over the ridge, then come about southeast and fork left in Little Meadow and you're free of the outpost and skirmishers ... 
 A (grumbles) Should've skinned outta this long ago. 
 #2 Got no families, Captain. Figured we'd stay and give 'em a hand even though ... 
 (to Colonial #2) I'll cover them from the top of the casement. 
 (in amazement) You're not coming with us? 
 Got a reason to stay. 
 That reason wear a blue dress and work in the surgery? 
 (dry) It does and it is a better lookin' reason than you, Jack Winthrop. (more laughs) Push hard, 'cos you got to clear the French outpost by dawn. (sticks out his hand and grasps Winthrop's) Good luck, Jack. 
 FIRE - HAWKEYE 
 
 CORA & HAWKEYE 
 
 
 
 (O.S.) You! Halt! 
 
 As you were!! 
 Take him! 
 (Mohican; subtitled) Why do they make my son prisoner? 
 (Mohican; subtitled) I helped Winthrop and the others leave ... This fight is not yours, father. I love you and my brother. And you should leave this place now and go to Can-tuck-ee ... 
 (Mohican; subtitled) What will they do with my white son? 
 Get back from him! 
 
 
'S 
 He saved us! We are alive only because of him ... 
: 
 The man encouraged the colonials to desert in this very room, in my presence. He is guilty of sedition and must be tried and hanged like any other criminal, regardless of what he did for my children. 
 He knew the consequences. And he stayed. Are those the actions of a criminal? ... Duncan, do something. 
 He knew the penalty for breaking regulations. He ought to pay without sending you to beg. 
 You know he wouldn't send me ...! You misrepresented what you saw and caused this. (frustrated) I, too, was at that farm. It was as he said ... 
 Not with enough certainty to outweigh British interests in this fort. 
 And who empowered these provincials to pass judgment upon England's policies in her own colonies? To come and go without so much as a "by your leave." 
 They do not live their lives "by your leave." ... They hack it out of the wilderness with their own two hands, burying their dead and their children along the way. 
 (distant) You are defending him because you've become infatuated with him. 
 Duncan, you are a man with a few admirable qualities. But taken as a whole, I was wrong to have thought so highly of you. 
 But the man is guilty of sedition and subject to military justice and beyond pardon. 
 "Justice"? If that's "justice" ..., then the sooner French guns blow the English army out of America, the better it will be for these people. 
 You do not know what you are saying! 
 (explodes) Yes I do! I know exactly what I am saying. And if it is sedition, then I am guilty of sedition, too! 
 Sorry ... can't ask you in. 
 They're going to hang you. (pause; soft) Why didn't you leave when you had the chance? 
 Because what I am interested in is right here ... 
 What would you have me do? 
 Webb's reinforcements will arrive or not. If they do not arrive, the fort will fall. If that happens, stay close to your father. The French will protect the officer class among the English. 
 No. I will find you. 
 Do not. (pause) Promise me. 
 The whole world's on fire, isn't it? 
 This part of it sure is ... 
 
 
 What is it? 
 I don't know. Whatever happens you stay with your father. You stay among the officers. 
 
 Colonel Munro, I have known you as a gallant antagonist. I am happy to make your acquaintance as a friend. 
 And I to make yours, Monsieur le Marquis. 
 Please accept my compliments for the strong and skillful defense of your fortress. Under the command of a lesser man it would have fallen long ago given the superior numbers and material ... mere chance has allowed me to array against you ... 
 Monsieur le Marquis, I am a soldier, not a diplomat. You called this parlay for a reason. 
 You have already done everything which is necessary for the honor of your Prince. I will forever bear testimony that your resistance has been gallant and was continued as long as there was hope. But now, I beg you to listen to the admonitions of humanity. I beg you to consider my terms for your surrender. 
 However I may apprise such testimony from Monsieur Montcalm, Fort William Henry is strong and stands. 
 Honor that is freely accorded to courage, may be refused obstinacy ... These hills afford to us every opportunity to reconnoiter your works and I am possibly as well acquainted with your weak condition as you are yourselves. 
 Perhaps the General's glasses can reach to the Hudson and he knows the size and imminence of the army of Webb ...? 
 (quietly) My scouts intercepted this dispatch intended for you. 
 (to Bougainville) Read the dispatch. 
 HEYWARD & MUNRO] 
 (O.S. - reading) "Colonel Munro - Fort William Henry. I have no men available to send to your rescue. It is impossible. I  advise you to seek terms for surrender. Signed Webb." 
 (confirming) This is the signature of Webb. (to Munro) And I know the temper of our men. Rather than spend the war in a French prison hulk in Hudson Bay, they'd fight to the end. 
 (to Montcalm) You have heard your answer, Monsieur le Marquis. (salutes) 
 Sir. (challengingly) I am incapable of mistreating brave men. I beg you not to sign the death warrant of so many until you have listened to my terms. 
 Such as ...? 
 My master requires the fort be destroyed. But, for you and your comrades, there is no privilege that will be denied. None of your men will see the inside of a prison barge. They're free to go so long as they return to England and fight no more on this continent, and the civilian militia return to their farms. 
 Their arms? 
 They may leave the fortress fully armed, but with no ammunition ... Other than that, ask what you wish. 
 The honors of war? 
 Granted. 
 My colors? 
 Carry them to England to your King with pride. 
 Allow me to consult with my officers. 
 I have lived to see two things I never expected. An Englishman afraid to support a friend. And a Frenchman too honest to profit by that advantage. 
 General Webb can burn in hell. We'll go back and dig our graves behind the ramparts! Our mission is to fight. 
 (flares) Death and honor are sometimes thought to be the same. Today I have learned that they are not. 
 Sir! 
 (stops him with his eyes) The decision is final. 
 I am deeply touched by such unusual and unexpected generosity ... The fort is yours under the condition that we be given until dawn to bury our dead, prepare our men and women for their march and turn our wounded over to your surgeon. 
 Granted, Monsieur. 
 Qui vive? 
 France. 
 Le mot d'ordre? 
 La victoire. 
 C'est bien, vous vous promenez bien matin, monsieur! 
 Il est necessaire d'etre vigilant, mon enfant. 
 Is the hatchet buried between the English and my French father? 
 Yes. 
 Not a warrior has a scalp and the white men become friends. 
 My master owns these lands and your father has been ordered to drive off the English squatters. They have consented to go. So now he calls them enemies no longer. 
 Magua took the hatchet to color it with blood. It is still bright. Only when it is red, then it will be buried. 
 But so many suns have set since Le Renard struck the war post. Is he not tired? 
 Where is that sun?! It has gone behind the hill. It is dark and cold. It has set on his people, they are fooled and kill all the animals and sell all of their lands to enrich the European masters who are always greedy for more than they need. (threatening) And Le Subtil is the son of his tribe. There have been many clouds and many mountains. But now he has come to lead his nation. 
 That Le Renard has the power to lead his people into the light, I know well. 
 Does my father know that? 
 MAGUA'S CHEST 
 That's where a lead bullet has torn you. 
 And this? 
 My son has been sadly injured. Who did this? 
 (laughs; sardonic) Magua slept hard in the English wigwams. And the sticks left their mark ... (pause; for real) Magua's village and lodges were burnt. Magua's children were killed by the English. Magua was taken as a slave by the Mohawks who fought for the Grey Hair. Magua's wife believed he was dead and became the wife of another. The Grey Hair was the father of all this. (pause) In time Magua became blood-brother to Mohawk to become free. In his heart he always was Huron. And his heart will be whole again on the day when the Grey Hair and all his seed are dead! 
 My son Magua's pain is my pain. 
 Does the chief of the Canadas believe the English will keep the terms? 
 Munro would. But General Webb will not send their soldiers across the salt lake. Having let them go, I fear I will only fight the same men again when I move south. (pause; shrugs) And yet, I cannot break the terms of the capitulation and sully the lilies of France ... 
 Many things my French father cannot do, Magua can. 
 As the English march away, our soldiers and the Canadiens will be drawn to the looting of the fort ... except for a small guard ... 
 (in Iroquois; re: Montcalm) I wonder at the blindness and pride of the white man. He believes only he knows how to speak falsely to make other men do his bidding. 
 CLOSER: MUNRO 
 
 CLOSER: MUNRO 
 (eyes forward) Monsieur, the fort is yours. 
 
 UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK 
 FRONTAL - MAGUA 
 CLOSER: CORA 
 
 
 
 
 
 Steady! No one fires! 
 
 (to Sergeant Major) Men are to stay in file, Sergeant Major! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Do not break ranks! I want these ranks to hold ...! 
'S 
 CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS 
 
 
 SOLDIERS & CIVILIANS 
 
 CORA & ALICE 
 
 Fire! 
: 
 Fire! 
 
 
 
 
 Cora! 
 CORA & ALICE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cora! Alice! 
 
 
 Second rank fire! Six paces back! Prime! Load! Third rank! Present! 
 
 CLOSER: MAGUA 
 Grey Hair. I will cut your heart from your living chest in front of your eyes. As you die, know that I will put under the knife your children and wipe your seed from this earth forever ... 
 MOHAWK & HURON 
 CORA & ALICE 
 MUNRO'S FACE 
 
 REVERSE: HAWKEYE 
 
 
'S 
 CLOSER: HEYWARD 
 Six paces back! Prime! Load! Rank two, present! Rank two, hold! 
 
 Rank two, six paces back! Rank one, present! 
 
 
 
 
 MUNRO'S DAUGHTERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No! 
 
 
 You got nothin' better to do today on Lake George than shoot me, Major, then go ahead ... 
 
 Stop it!! 
 When you fall into British hands again, Nathaniel Poe, I will have you hanged. 
 
 
 
 HAWKEYE'S CANOE 
 #1 Can't ... keep it up ... 
 Pull! 
 (shouts) How long? 
 (shouts) Only chance we got is ... (breathless) ... to get more distance on 'em and go to ground! 
 (shouts) Pull!! 
 
 Pull ...! 
 
 #2 Spent. 
] 
 (to Heyward) Head for ... for the white water. 
 Do you hear me, sir! (exhausted) If you ever fall ... into British hands ... (breathes) What white water? 
 
 HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK 
 UNCAS' CANOE 
 
 
 ALICE & CORA 
 
 Here's where it gets tricky ... 
 CLOSER: HEYWARD 
 Don't move ... 
 
 
 
 
 Where do we go from here? 
 We don't. 
 I don't understand! 
 This is it, as far as we can go ... If we're lucky, they'll be figurin' we can't have come this way and must've beached our canoes and headed cross land. If we're very lucky, they'll figure we went over the falls. 
 Then what? 
 Then we take the south rim down the mountain and it's 12 miles cross country to Fort Edward. 
 And if we're unlucky? 
 You will have to forego the pleasure of hangin' me. 
 REVERSE: WIDE 
 HAWKEYE & CORA 
 
 Any powder? 
: (crossing to Cora) Only one or two loads. 
 
 Are we safe? 
 Maybe ... 
 Our father? Did you see my father? 
 Tell me! 
 
 Say nothing to Alice ...! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 UNCAS & ALICE 
'S 
 Uncas ... 
 
 
 Yes. Go ahead. 
 (explodes) What the bloody hell plan is this? 
 (to Cora) In this there is a chance. If I live, I can try to free you. If we don't go, there is no powder, there's too many of them. Though my heart would keep me here, in that there is no chance. None. I can do nothing. Do you understand? 
 Yes. I want you to go. 
 Coward! Coward back at the fort. Coward here. 
 You try. With all you have. To save yourself. If the worst happens, and only one of us survives, something of the other does, too ... 
 (very close) If they don't kill you, they may take you north up into Canada. A warrior may take you for a wife. 
 
 (continues) Listen. Submit. You hear me? You're strong. You stay alive. I will find you ... no matter how far, how long it takes ... 
 (nods, low) ... never doubt what you are doing. 
 
 
 
 HAWKEYE'S KNIFE 
 CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS 
 
'S 
 
 MAGUA'S HAND 
 
 KILLDEER'S MUZZLE 
 CORA & ALICE 
 
 If Magua give women to Yengeese soldiers ... will receive many gifts. 
 (as if considering) Gifts? 
 Three, four oxen ... much wampum. 
 Wampum? 
 Yes. 
 Does Yengeese Major have property across salt sea? 
 Yes. 
 Yengeese Major give all property to Magua. Magua give Yengeese Major much wampum, many gifts, maybe three, four oxen. 
 Gold could be arranged. 
 For Munro children? 
 Yes. 
 How much gold has the master of the Yengeese? 
 The King? The King has mountains of gold! 
 Not enough. 
 What is enough? 
 Heart. Give Magua new heart. 
 FRONTAL: HAWKEYE 
 PROFILE: UNCAS 
 
 
 
 
 HAWKEYE & UNCAS 
 
 CLOSER: HAWKEYE 
 
 (in Huron; subtitled) The tomahawks of your young men have been very red. 
 (in Huron; subtitled) Many of the Yengeese are dead, great Sachem. (sound dissolve to English) I have brought three of my prisoners, to honor you. Two are the children of Munro. Whose scalp hangs on my lodge pole. And whose heart I cut from his chest. 
 CHINGACHGOOK - DAY 
 
 ... the earth was pale. Our tomahawks were bright. Now they are dull from war. And the Huron rich with the trophies of honor ... Magua will sell the English officer to Les Francais and the reward is my gift to you, wise one ... The women - children of the white war chief - will burn in our fires so all can share in this. 
 
 
 
 Nathaniel! 
 (to Heyward; low) Translate for me, Major. Into French. Every word ... as I say it. 
 (to Sachem) I come to you unarmed and in peace to unstop your ears, wise one. Because the Hurons are mislead by the words of the wolf who's never spoken the truth. 
 Let the children of the dead Colonel Munro go free and take the fire out of the English anger over the murder of their helpless ones. 
 (to Sachem) Our father, Montcalm, is greater than the Yengeese in the arts of war. The Huron do not fear English anger. 
 (to Sachem) Wise one, the French fathers made peace and swore to their honor not to break the friendship. Magua broke it. It is false that the French would not be friends, still, to the Huron. 
 (laughs) It made our French father happy to never have to fight the same Yengeese again. He told me this without telling me this. 
 So the Huron are the servants of the French? To do what the French are shamed to do? 
 No. (to Sachem) Huron serve no one. The French father believes he fooled Magua because he is so proud of his cleverness, he is blind. But it is the Huron path that Magua walks down, not the French one ... Now, Les Francais, also, fear Huron. That is good. When the Huron is strong from their fear, we will make the terms of trade with Les Francais. And we will trade as the white man trades. Take land from the Abnakes; fur from the Osage, Sauk & Fox. And make the Huron great. Over other tribes. No less than the whites, as strong as the whites. 
 (to Sachem) Magua would use the ways of Les Francais and the Yengeese ... 
 (to Sachem) The red man put down the bow, picked up the fire stick and became the best warrior in the forest. Yes. It is the only way. 
 Would the Huron make his Algonquin brothers foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell them for gold to the white man? Would the Huron have greed for more land than a man can use? Like Francais Black Robes do? Would Huron kill tribes with disease? Would the Huron fool Seneca into taking all the animals in the forest for beads & brandy? But sell the fur to the white man for gold? ... (to Sachem) Those are the ways of Yengeese and Les Francais masters. Are they the ways of Huron men who hunt & work the land? Or of dogs? ... Magua's heart is twisted. He would make himself into what twisted him. A Dog, become Master of Dogs. But are Hurons dogs? ... Magua's way is false. It is like the white sickness. Magua's way will bring only sadness and shame. Is there another way? I don't know. (pauses) I am Nathaniel of the Yengeese; Hawkeye, adopted son of Chingachgook, of the Mohican people ... Let the children of the dead Munro go free ... I speak the truth. 
 
 
 
 The white man comes like a day that has passed. And night enters our future with him ... (pause) Our council talks since I was a boy: What is the Huron to do? (pause) But Magua would lead Huron down paths that make us not Hurons. (the judgment) Dark girl burn in fire to heal the twisted heart of Magua. 
 (continuing) Munro daughter with moon in her hair must be Magua's wife so Munro's seed doesn't die. 
 (continuing; dissolves back to French) ... and Yengeese officer not go to Les Francais, but back to Yengeese so their hatred burns less bright. La Longue Carabine, go in peace. 
 No! listen. (to Heyward) Tell him I'll trade him! Me for her! Tell him!! 
 (shouts) I am La Longue Carabine! My death is a great honor to the Huron. Take me! 
 (French; subtitled) This is not the voice of wisdom. I go to the Hurons of the Lakes! You are women. Send your arrows and guns to the Seneca, beg from them venison to eat, corn to grind. Slaves, dogs, rabbits, thieves ... I spit on you! 
 
 
 
 I said to trade me! 
 ... compliments, Mr. Poe. (pause) Take her and get out. 
 (standing) What are they doing to Duncan? Duncan! 
 (low to himself) And my compliments to you ... 
 Alice? 
 
 CORA'S EYES 
 
 
 HAWKEYE & CORA 
 
 
 
 UNCAS' HAND 
 
 
 
 
' 
 WIDE: PROMONTORY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
!!! 
 
 
 (Mohican) Great Spirit and the Maker of all Life ... 
/ 
 (V.O.): (in English) ... a warrior goes to you swift and straight as an arrow shot into the sun. Welcome him and let him take his place at the council fire of my people. (pause) He is Uncas, my son. (pause) Bid them patience and ask death for speed; for they are all there but one - I, Chingachgook - Last of the Mohicans. 
 
 HAWKEYE & CORA] 
 Will you go back to England? 
 I have nothing to go back for. 
 Then will you stay in America? 
 And will you be my wife? 
 Yes. 
 Where will we go? 
 Winter with the Delaware, my father's cousins. And in the spring, cross the Ohio and look for land to settle with my father in a new place called Can-tuck-ee. 
 The frontier moves with the sun and pushes the red man of the wilderness forests in front of it. Until one day there will be nowhere left. Then our race will be no more, or be not us ... The frontier place is for people like my white son and his woman and their children. 
 That's my father's sadness talking. 
 No. It is true ... One day ... there will be no more frontier. Then men like you will go, too. Like the Mohicans. (pause) And new people will come. Work. Struggle to make their light ... One mystery remains. 
 What is that? 
 
