 (V.O.) On any given day, your life can change in the blink of an eye. It's a cliché, I know... 
 TED (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...The next day the doorbell rings and some stranger's holding your ticket to being SOMEBODY. 
 TED (V.O.) (CONT'D) You're disappointed, I know. I admit, I was hopeless back then. The 'do, the shades, ugh. But I always had good taste in women. 
 "Health Teacher Flunks Her Own Lesson!"  No WAY!  It's Miss Pratt, smoking a doobie! 
 CHRISTY (CONT'D) Look at this, Ted! Imagine if we did THIS in the school paper! 
 (O.S.) Hand them over! Immediately! 
 Just the guy I've been looking for. 
 Wouldn't it be awesome if we were about to say the exact same thing? 
 You go first. 
 Well. The prom's coming up. 
 And I was wondering. 
 If you don't have...I mean... 
 CHRISTY (CONT'D) Teddy? Would you please please please take me to the prom? 
. 
 You are the most wonderful guy in the whole wide world, and I love you madly, Teddy Nelson! 
 Come on, bro. Spare yourself the humiliation, the degradation... 
 Don't get me wrong. We can salivate over all the Christy Malones of our lives. Wishing we could devour them like melt-in-your-mouth filet mignon. But we're strictly hamburger guys. Ground chuck, sixty eight percent lean, is about the best we can hope for. 
 That vibe is from your wrist, pal. You've been over-tenderizing your meat, again. 
 She smiles at everyone, Ted.  She's like a newborn with gas. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) The only chick more untouchable than Christy Malone is Miss April. (feminine voice) "Hi, my name's Ginger. I love tofu burgers, rainy nights, and riding bareback.  My biggest turn-off is cell phones during sex." Here's a tip:  set it on VIBRATE, honey, and don't be stingy with the lube. (winking at Ted) Don't knock it till you tried it. 
 One thing for sure, Christy Malone ain't lookin THAT good naked. 
 You have a better chance of being hit by a Mack truck with a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip. 
 That's crazy talk. 
 Don't do it, Ted. Don't do it. 
 I'm warning you. This is an official warning. Danger, Will Robinson, danger. 
 Oh, Miss Pratt, Miss Pratt! What were you thinking?  How could you be so careless? (reading) "Exposing Hypocrisy in the Morons who Teach Us." That's the little bastard's motto! 
 (summoning courage) Principal Merkin, I realize we have to teach the children that recreational drugs are the devil's work, but that doesn't mean we don't dance with the Prince of Darkness ourselves, every now and again. 
 Ah, well, bravo!  That's just what we'll tell the school board. 
 So, William Randolph. Your last big scoop contrasted the popularity of Rice Crispie Treats and chocolate Snickerdoodles at the annual bake sale. 
 Let me guess: retail sales of little chocolate sprinkles have gone through the roof! 
 Is it true? Is ignorance bliss? 
 Don't even tell me you're hot for Miss Titty Pom Poms over there. 
 I didn't know they gave them for Best Lip Gloss Retention During a Blow Job. 
 Go ahead. Ask her to the prom. Get it over with. 
 --Do it. I triple-dog-dare you. 
 TED (CONT'D) Uh, Christy, I was wondering... 
 WOULD YOU GO TO THE PROM WITH ME?!!! 
 (through gritted teeth) Ted, have you lost your mind? 
 I don't LIKE you. We're JUST 
. 
 Oh, Ted, DUH.  I smile at everyone since I got my braces off. 
 You really don't get it, do you? I am genetically programmed to desire a big, buff, manly man who can defend and provide for me and my yet to be conceived offspring! It's, like, a caveman thing! 
 The answer is NEVER, Ted, NEVER. Except maybe in your dreams. 
 No, Ted.  This is an actual emergency. 
 I tried to warn you, William Randolph. She's got stiletto heels hidden in those Keds. 
 It was for your own good, in a twisted sort of publicly humiliating way. 
 One word, my friend. One word. 
. 
 Mom, Dad. Meatloaf has come to represent all that Ted hates about his mediocre life and the world we live in. He's what you'd call clinically bummed. 
 We heard about Christy, son. 
 No cursing in this house, young man. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you. 
 We understand your disappointment, Teddy. Christy is a pretty, sexy, provocative, voluptuous... (catches himself) We...uh...we understand your disappointment. 
 Can the tantrum, sweet pea. We're the good guys, remember? 
 Mom, Dad. Don't allow this disturbing behavior to furrow your collective brow. Ted's just experiencing some post-adolescent turmoil, coming to terms with the whole "small town dynamic." 
 TED (V.O.) (CONT'D) And until that moment, this was the worst day of my seventeen and a half years. And then it happened. Three, two, one... 
 In a hurry, are we? 
 Bad news. 
 I'm just a messenger. 
 It's about your parents. 
 I'm terrible at this. I blurt. I'm a blurter. Your parents...They ...well...they exist no further. (off Ted's confusion) Skinny-dipping. The Amazon. Piranhas. It wasn't pretty. 
 Well kid, I'm speaking of...your biological parents. 
 The will reading is next Tuesday. Naturally all of Ted's expenses will be taken care of. 
 We have a truckload of strawberries arriving on Tuesday morning. 
 (explaining to Zukerman) We own a small family grocery store. 
 How quaint. 
 That's part of growing up, honey. 
 You know what your mother means. 
 All right, I can give you two tickets, prepaid, but you must be there. There's no other way. 
 Mom, Dad. Allow me to accompany Ted. I can assure you, I'll be the level-headed sidekick to your angst ridden teen. 
 I think Ted should take someone older, more responsible. 
 What about Charlie?  You boys could make it a little adventure. 
 I remember spring break of my senior year.  Seems like a lifetime ago. 
 Grandpa was so strong back then. Working from the crack of dawn. So proud of his peaches. 
 You're way ahead of me again? 
 The lesson being? 
 I'm getting so good at this. 
 Of course we are. 
 Son. 
 They had a rough life. Your father was a bouncer. Your mother was, well, a two-bit stripper. There was no place for a baby. 
 They did do one great thing. They gave us our boy. 
 Be a sport. How bad could spring break in Los Angeles be? 
 Think of it as a rite of passage to manhood. 
 Whatever helps you cope. 
 There ya go. Always remember, focus on the peach... 
 Always one step ahead of your dear old dad. 
 I wonder if this is what it feels like to be born? 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) Think about it...Long tunnel, bright lights, it's full of vaginal symbolism. 
 Seriously, it's like we're being reborn. We really could reinvent ourselves here, just like you said. Nobody knows about your massive humiliation. 
 Nobody knows you barfed during junior high school graduation. 
 And nobody knows you're a virgin! (after a beat) Aw, who are we kidding... 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) ...EVERYBODY KNOWS YOU'RE A VIRGIN! 
 What are the odds of there being ANOTHER Ted Nelson on our flight? 
 TED (CONT'D) Hi, I'm Ted Nelson. 
 I'm so terribly sorry for your loss. Your father was a great man. 
 Who the hell was your father? 
 ...A bouncer? Are you serious? 
 TED (CONT'D) Don't. Touch. Anything. 
 (shouting) This is the life, baby. We get ourselves some tail and we're talking SPRING BREAK! 
 For a guy about to try his first Dom Perignon, you are extremely uptight. 
 Don't you know anything about limo etiquette? Everything in here is included for our pleasure. 
 And like every hamburger guy knows, when you get your one big chance at the good life, you abuse every second of it until they figure out you don't belong there and kick your sorry ass out. 
 This is how the other half lives, bro. Enjoy it while you can. 
 #1 Welcome, Mr. Nelson. You are so very very welcome here. 
 #2 We feel your pain, so deeply. 
 (to Ted) Something tells me we're not in Xenia anymore, Toto. 
 I'm Charles. The handsome, devoted best friend. We're so close, we feel each other's pain. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) See what you do to me, baby. 
 Oh my, he would have been so proud. You're the spitting image of him. 
 He never spits, ma'am. Ever. He can't even get a good hocker going. I've tried to teach him. It comes from the diaphragm. 
 (emotional embrace) I'm Helen McDole.  Your father's executive secretary. 
 We're running out of time. The kid's here. We don't need HIM. 
 Perhaps we could be patient for just a moment or two longer? 
 What did the doctor say to the nurse as they watched something black and white and red in a blender? (a wry smile) No more patients. 
 ZUKERMAN (CONT'D) Are you familiar with "Heaven?" 
 Your fathered owned the entire "Heaven" empire.  You own it now. Any questions? 
 Everything?  The publishing division, the real estate holdings, the retail outlets, the theme parks? 
 As far as the eye can see. 
 Oh, sweetheart! We wish we could be right there to hug the living daylights out of you! 
 But if you're watching this, then it means we bit the dust. 
 But don't worry...we'll be in heaven. The REAL heaven, I mean. Not that heaven is an actual place, but more like a state of being. Or not being. Who knows. Maybe we know now. 
 If you're anything like yours truly, then you probably figure we didn't want you when you were born, so who cares if we're dead? Am I right? 
 But we did want you. It's just that you don't always get to keep what you want. We knew you needed a real mom and dad. 
 We had no idea the nudie magazine we started in the garage would turn into all this. 
 Can you believe that was me? 
 Before we knew it, we created the most popular men's magazine in the entire nation. The rest is history. 
 So here we are. Dead. But we never want you to want for anything. That is, we want you to have everything. 
 Everything. 
 We love you, Ted. We always did. We always will. 
 I can't believe that's your mother. We're talking babe-a-licious chub fest, right here in the 501's. 
 I'm so terribly sorry.  Am I too late? 
 Ah, Mr. Deeds. You're just in time to congratulate your nephew. He inherited the empire. 
 (a broad smile) Every morsel of it? 
 It would appear so. 
 Smashing!  Welcome to the family, Ted. You are going to breathe some new life into this place. You are going to set the world on fire! You are going to...call me Uncle Billy? Please? 
 I have only one concern... 
 A lot? I mean, a whole lot? 
 You're sure? 
 (to the rescue) He likes them with the unbridled enthusiasm of a seventeen-year-old virgin who's been making mental beef jerky since he saw the bevy of tender young skirt steaks at his new hacienda. 
 That's my boy! 
 The parties are held in here when the weather dips below seventy. Which is seldom. 
 You said parties but you meant ORGIES, right? (to Ted; quietly) Stick with me. I know their codes. 
 The orgies, exactly. Take a deep breath. You can smell it. Pure sexuality, oozing from the walls. 
 Naked girls, wild sex, video games. No wonder it's called "Heaven." 
 This is a fun place...but we don't usually come here until after the orgies. 
 Indeed it is. During the day, visitors prefer to be outside, au naturel. As it were. 
 Hello, girls! Have you met Ted? 
 This is like my every wet dream come true.  I don't even care that you're here, too, bro. 
 Good advice, Ted. You have your father's instincts. 
 I wonder how many of them will be at the orgy tonight? 
 Oh. Well. Maybe not yet. 
 Never say never. 
 Oh, god.  Look. Look. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) I really love your peaches, wanna shake your tree. 
 Maybe she needs help, Ted. You should be a gentleman. 
 (having a moment) Oh baby, yes, yes, yes. Fuck me like you mean it. 
 I'd kiss your mother with this mouth. I mean, if she wasn't, you know... 
 Yeah, whatever. 
 Teddy? Is that you? 
 MOM (CONT'D) How are you, baby? Are you all right? 
 Did you have a nice flight?  Are they taking good care of you? 
 Save it, honey.  We want to hear every detail when you get back, but we don't want you to run up Mr. Zukerman's phone bill. 
 Ted, it's your dad.  I have a question for you.  I don't know how to put it tactfully. You know I'm lousy with words. 
 I know they were simple people, but did this trip help your college fund at all? 
 (not getting it) Well, good. Every little bit helps. 
 Check this out.  Hurry! 
 We'll see you soon.  Have fun in... (trying to be hip) ...the land of fruits and nuts. 
 Hurry. 
 Check it out! 
 Beauty? No. We're talking GODDESS. 
 Dead? 
 Then there must be a whole room, made completely of chocolate. 
 Don't be such a pansy. All of this is YOURS. 
 I'd feel like staying up all night! Forever! Or at least till I got the LAY of the land, SO TO SPEAK. 
 ...where they get all the really good porno channels on cable. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) Cha-ching. Jackpot. 
 Take a whiff of heaven. 
 I'd call you a sick, twisted fuck. But this is different.  She wasn't your mother mother-- 
 I do apologize, sir. I heard a noise. 
 --I completely understand, sir. I'll leave you to your business. Good night. 
 A couple of boys fighting over a pair of red silk panties is nothing compared to what he's seen. 
 (O.S.) Wanna take me for a ride? 
 They're in the ignition, silly. 
 GINGER (CONT'D) You do know how to drive? 
 Want a lesson? 
 GINGER (CONT'D) Press your left foot on the clutch. And turn the key. 
 GINGER (CONT'D) Now release the brake. And slide the stick into first gear. 
 Now very carefully apply some pressure to the gas pedal with your right foot as you release the clutch with your left. 
 The first time can be awkward. You just have to get on and try again. 
 It's your car. These are all your cars. 
 Your father liked shifting. He said it brought him closer to the engine. "Like a woman, purring with ecstasy." 
 I know.  I'm Ginger. Miss April. 
 That's me. 
 TED (CONT'D) That sounded so much better in my head. 
 Hey, Ted. Wanna go shopping? 
 Don't worry.  He found the chocolate room. 
 Your father always said, "Money matters only to the man who doesn't have it." 
 Who exactly ARE you? 
 And who IS Ted Nelson? 
 GINGER (CONT'D) Is he a small town boy, destined to live an ordinary life with an ordinary wife and a tiny house with a boring old white picket fence? 
 GINGER  (CONT'D) Or do you have a taste for the good life, Ted? It's in your blood. 
 Then remember, you are the heir to a billion dollar empire. You have a staff of literally thousands. Multiply everything you ever imagined by a million and you still can't even wrap your head around everything that is yours. ALL 
. 
 Every one of these women thinks she should be the next Angel of the Month. It's your job, Ted, to decide which of them is right. 
 Let me get this straight... 
 If it isn't straight by now, son, you probably should see a doctor. 
 These are real, live women? 
 (winking at Ted) We don't generally feature blow-up dolls in our magazine. But hey, if you think there's a market for it. 
 God, I love being dead. 
 (relieved) Nice choice. There's only one problem. 
 You think she upgraded? 
 They went in through the belly button. 
 We don't allow TIPN, Ted. 
 TIPN. Tattoos, implants, piercings, nose jobs. Our angels must be pure, unadultered, completely natural. 
 HELEN (CONT'D) (emotional) You have your father's eye. 
 There you are, Ted-baby. Everything all right? 
 You ready for your big coming out party? Everybody's dying to meet you. 
 (puzzled) They said that? Really? (realizing) Oh, your parents. The Nelson's. Right, right. How midwest. I like that. 
 YOU? Nervous? Why on earth should you be nervous? 
 Huh! You laugh in the face of pressure! 
 You are a multi-media magnate. The Tycoon of Tits. The Baron of Bottoms. 
 You're the Sultan of Semen. The Monarch of Masturbation. The Merchant Prince of Lust. You. Ted. Are the King of Coitus. 
 The Supreme Sovereign of Sexuality. 
 (interrupting) Why, look who's here. 
 Ain't life amazing? A week ago, you couldn't get to second base!  Now you OWN second base! 
 I told you you could do it. 
 You were the new and improved you. 
 No one will be laughing at you now, Ted. You can take that to the bank. 
 You ARE home. But go ahead, finish school, do what you feel you need to do. In the meantime, I'll be your point person here on the magazine. 
 I've been very lazy for a long, long time. 
 (confiding) I never finished school myself. Never had to. My brother built this empire from nothing but his wife's perky tits and a whole lot of gumption. He gave me a cushy job on a silver platter. I never struggled for a second. 
 It's not like I didn't have ideas, I had plenty of ideas. But I never even shared them with your father. Never had the guts. 
 Well...for one thing...I think it's despicable that we exclude so many women that only fit our western notion of "classic beauty." 
 The world is a big, beautiful place.  We can open new markets in Africa and Asia.  Imagine the Dali Lhama reading our magazine. 
 At our press conference tomorrow, I think we should announce our plans to explore the world. Not just a few leggy 36D's, with blond hair upstairs and down. 
 Want some company? 
 ...My brilliant, extraordinary nephew, Ted Nelson, has brought enough fresh blood to this company to make all of Transylvania happy for the next fifty or sixty years. I'll give him the mike now and you'll see what I mean. This apple didn't fall far from the tree. 
 TED (CONT'D) They tell me I've got my father's taste in women and cars. (winking) The faster, the better. 
 TED (CONT'D) And I'm really looking forward to the challenge of bringing "Heaven" magazine into the 21st century. 
 He asked me to the prom! ME! We're practically engaged! 
 He reinvented himself into a dick. 
 You don't even have your high school diploma yet, Mr. Nelson. I'm still the boss of you. 
 (shocked) Our Teddy inherited "Heaven?" 
 He said he was set for book money. 
 Mom, Dad. Forget about roller blades for my birthday. I'd prefer a DNA test. Can you prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that I am not, for example, a Guccione? 
 Dad opens the front door to reveal a delivery man, holding a flashy new bike. 
 Delivery for Jimmy Nelson. 
 My goodness, who sent this? 
 It's from "Heaven," ma'am. 
 Ted. Of course. 
 (riding around) I love you, Ted! 
 We can't accept it.  It's much too expensive. Right, dear? 
 Of course, dumpling. Its very nice of Ted but... 
 #2 Delivery for Robert Nelson. 
 For me? What is it? 
 #2 Appears to be tools, sir. 
 Oh, no. Ted's gone completely overboard. 
 MOM (CONT'D) Sweetheart, what is it? 
 I always wanted Craftsman tools. He even got me the limited edition Buckeye colors. 
 Oh, honey. We can't accept this extravagance. 
 Teddy? Is that you? 
 What is all this? When are you coming home? 
 Everything is lovely, Ted, but much too expensive. 
 #3 Where do you want them, lady? 
 Oh, good lord. Are those Neptunes? 
 (softening) You promise you'll finish school? 
 You cannot land a helicopter in my school yard! Get that blasted thing out of here! 
 What gives, Don Corleone? 
 (smug) We reinvented ourselves. 
 New Hushpuppies don't make a new man. 
 You've obviously never had your dogs nestled in thousand dollar Italian loafers. 
 That explains the emptiness that haunts me. 
 Jealousy is so unattractive. 
 Second only to unfettered arrogance and the inability to see the irony therein. 
 Wanna see my hickey from Miss December? 
 I like you, Ted. You know that. I liked you before you were filthy rich. 
 I'll be blunt. I know you can take it. 
 Ted, you are the best editor this school paper ever had. You don't need to be pandering flesh. It's nonsense. It's beneath you. 
 That's a good start, yes. A very good start. 
 I never figured you for a pimp. 
 What kind of sick question is that? I'll be watching you, young man. Your money and power mean nothing here. Nothing. 
 No. No, I won't. Thank you. For reminding me. 
 Great jacket, Teddy Bear. 
 Makes your shoulders look so big and broad. 
 A few billion bucks and suddenly he's Cro-Magnon Man of the Year. 
 What is it, William Randolph? Your balls need scratching? 
 In what sense? 
 Ah ha! It was so well hidden, you didn't even know it was there. 
 Just because someone died and made you king of the publishing world doesn't mean you're even one ounce smarter than you were a week ago. 
 I'm still better than you. Nothing changed except the decimal point in your savings account. 
 Oh, right. You're probably not a virgin anymore. But as far as being a hack, that much is status quo. 
 Then I'll write about YOU. 
 "Local boy inherits more money than god." Call me crazy, but I smell human interest. 
 Goodness...it's delicious. I've never tasted anything so tender. 
 Beats the heck out of meatloaf. (off Mom's look) Although your meatloaf is second to none, love muffin. 
 Mom, Dad. My trembling taste buds have just been assailed by the bittersweet knowledge of all they've been missing these past nine years. 
 No offense, Wolfgang Puck, but dead flesh is dead flesh. This just happens to be better than most dead flesh on the planet. 
 Why, thank you, sir. Thank you. 
 Ted has bettered our lives to the point where I can no longer see myself as "the old Jimmy" I was but a day or two past. You may all call me James. From this moment forward. 
 We're grateful, Ted. It's not that. Those Craftsman tools...they're a dream come true. 
 Your Dad and I were raised with a certain work ethic, that's all. 
 We can't start living like we're the Rockerfellers or something. 
 Mom, Dad. The Rockerfellers are paupers compared to my favorite brother, Ted. 
 But how would we pay our bills? 
 We just barely have enough for your college tuition, son. 
 Oh. Goodness. 
 (after a beat) Like what? 
 But those are our dreams, son. We have to make them come true. 
 But who would run the store? 
 Ted, we put a lot of love in our business. 
 We wanted you and Jimmy to have it someday. Something real and honest. 
 We love our lives just the way they are. 
 Call me Charlie. I'm a photographer for "Heaven" magazine. And a very cunning linguist. 
 Different how? Different like a dwarf at a basketball game? Or different like a lesbian in pumps? 
 Could everybody else tell you were different, or were you the only one who knew? 
 I see. So more like a tight rope walker who secretly wants to be a trapeze artist. 
 Interesting. 
 Warm peanuts? 
 She said peanuts, you cretin. 
 TED (CONT'D) Don't write that part. 
 Is this an gritty exposé or a candy ass press release? 
 (amused) Life must be peachy on Planet Ted. 
 I did my homework. Your grandfather was a peach farmer. 
 Undoubtedly an aristocratic bartender of some sort. 
 I bet there are lots and lots of mirrors on Planet Ted. 
 And this is not my first time on a private jet, so quit acting like I'm Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm. 
 Money can't buy respect, Ted. Saying what you mean. Meaning what you say. Being an honorable person. That's how you earn respect. 
 Great jacket, Teddy. It makes your shoulders look so big and broad. 
 You do look smashing. 
 Positively dashing. 
 Sharp as a mashed potato sandwich. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) Oh wow, look...they've even got baby gherkins! 
 I have an idea! I'll be right back! 
 You're so twitterpated you don't even see the miner's hat and the pickax. 
 TED (CONT'D) Charlie's right. Jealousy is so unattractive. 
 Second only to unbridled, narcissistic conceit. 
 You've got enough people kissing your ass. 
 Here you go, cutie patootie. Rich guys always wear flowers. 
 How are the hometown folks treating you, back in Xenia? 
 Are they hitting you up for donations? Asking you to sponsor the local quilting bee? 
 What about the future? You planning to rock the boat at all? Stir things up in "Heaven?" 
 I see, so you'd be open to little ladies from Pasadena, who want to show you their knickers? 
 The Girls of Xenia? Jesus. 
 Now you're talking. What did Andrew Carnegie ever do? Open a couple of libraries? BOR-ING. 
 (O.S.) Poochie?  Where's my poochie? Where is she? 
 MRS. MERKIN Breakfast is getting cold. 
 Thank you, dear. 
 MRS. MERKIN No dogs at the table. 
 I know, dear. 
 (weakly) Thatta girl. 
 (V.O.) How many times have people told you, "Jeepers, you look swell naked!" Well now's your chance to go straight to "Heaven!" 
 This, my friends, this is not "Heaven." This flesh rag is a one way ticket to hell! We must voice our outrage! To remain passive in the eye of the devil is like inviting him to a pot luck in your own backyard and asking him to bring the three-bean salad! 
 Thank you for that long-winded but impassioned speech, Mr. Merkin. I hope you can cut to the chase, Ted. 
 (rising; an outburst) We cannot afford free speech if it excises the moral fiber of this community! 
 Isn't it true, Principal Merkin, that you only care now because "Heaven" is suddenly too close to home? 
 Indeed it is, Miss Conroy! I make no bones about it! "Heaven" has gone too far! 
 MR. NEEDLEMAN Principal Merkin is right! We can't let "Heaven" violate our own daughters, wives, sisters, mothers, girlfriends, aunts... 
 Mr. Nelson, you are Beelzebub's henchman! You are single-handedly destroying the integrity of our community, and I will not have it! I'll gather signatures. I'll petition the courts. 
 (sheepishly) You do what you have to do, Dick. But if there's a man among us who doesn't like to steal a look at some pretty titty once in a while, let him cast the first stone. 
 I. AM. THAT. MAN. 
 You're like a centerfold waiting to happen. And let me assure you, I have some serious pull with the publisher. 
 What the hell are you doing? 
 I'm an adult. I can do whatever I want. 
 My roof, my rules, young lady. 
 Send us a picture, sugar.  We'll get back to you. 
 You're late, bro! 
 You'll never believe who's in there. 
 Hi, Teddy Bear. 
 I turned eighteen over spring break. I'm eligible. 
 With a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip. 
 So far, so good. Some of them have real Angel potential. 
 We're impressed but not surprised, Ted. You have your father's impeccable judgment. 
 He was in a league of his own. 
 Sorry I-- 
 (holding a list) Your mom said you've been ignoring your chores. 
 We'll send you the release forms, Ted. Our staffers will help in any way they can. 
 You're the Titan of Tushies, the General of Jism.  Don't you forget it, Ted-baby. 
 You have to understand. This was a big shock, for all of us. One minute you're our little boy, of whom we could not be more proud. The next minute you're the owner of this whole pornographic empire. 
 But that doesn't make you the boss of everything, son. 
 Don't you see how your self involvement and lack of humility are affecting the whole family? 
 You ordered a Winnebago? 
 We're not ashamed of you, Teddy. We don't approve of the magazine or the models or the so-called "flesh parties" you attend. But we can get past all that. 
 We miss you. We miss our son. 
 We miss our family. 
 We think you should give up the magazine. Sell it. Let someone else run it. Whatever it takes. 
 We want you to go to college, find a career you love, marry a nice girl from a nice family, and live happily ever after. 
 Watch your tone, mister. 
 TED (CONT'D) No wonder I was so bored. No wonder I hated this one-horse cow town. I come from talented people who took chances and dared to imagine a life without limits! I was never meant to be raised by...GROCERS. 
 Teddy? I was thinking. 
 After graduation...maybe we could go away together? 
 I bet St. Tropez in July would be paradise. For a honeymoon. 
 GINGER (CONT'D) (snapping) You could have warned us. 
 Oops, sorry. Warning: You've got lipstick on your teeth. 
 Put your eyeballs back in your head, William Randolph. I'm on assignment. A girl has to fit in. 
 Teddy, I thought we were having a moment here. 
 I apologize for interrupting the festivities, but I have some good news. I've been reviewing the rules and regulations set forth by the superintendent of schools. And it seems quite clear... (reading from manual) "Minors may not be accompanied to school functions by adults unless they are their parents or legal guardians." 
 Rules are rules. 
 Deaf ears, Mr. Nelson. I answer to a higher power. 
 Here's the deal, Merk.  Forget the "rules and regulations" malarkey and we'll give you seven minutes in heaven with the Taylor Triplets. 
 Out! Now! 
 You're crossing the line, Mr. Nelson. 
 I'm warning you. 
 That's it! You're out of here! 
 Ted! Do something! 
 This is humiliating. We're being ejected from a prom! 
 Well? 
 I hear you, bro. We're Angus men in a ground round town. 
 This is what I get for playing den mother in "Romper Room." Take me to the airport, Charlie! 
 Why don't you just hitch a ride on the horse you rode in on? 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) (calling after her) Don't forget your broom! 
 Chicks are like buses. If you miss one, don't sweat it. There's another coming 'round the corner. 
 CHARLIE (CONT'D) (whispering to Ted) Take your pick. They're IDENTICAL. 
 No, leave one. Somebody's grandmother might want one. 
 I love those springy head puppies! 
 Mr. Nelson, you disappoint me. First you break our school board rules. Then you break the law. 
 Our state has a zero tolerance policy for underage drinking. 
 Alcohol does horrible things to a developing young mind. 
 Need a lift? 
 (V.O.) To the best hiding place in the world. 
 He didn't. He had it built. 
 Not "whatever."  It's two different things. 
 He phoned it in. 
 I doubt it. 
 The ozone must be fully depleted on Planet Ted. 
 Your dad taught you everything. 
 A father is nothing but sperm, Ted. It takes a real man to be a dad. 
 It's incredibly simple. 
 Eventually you'll let go. 
 Then you'll see who's really holding on to you. 
 I know. 
 But you never do. 
 Cut to the chase, William Randolph. Your audience is way ahead of you. 
 That's two words. And I'm out of the "exposed" business, remember? I need to graduate. Besides, Merk's a boy scout. 
 You forget, I dislike YOU at least as much as him. 
 A good journalist can take lemons and make lemonade. I'm honing my craft. 
 See what I mean. He's squeaky clean. He makes Gandhi look like a war monger. 
 The city tower belongs to the city, not to some pornographer. 
 The library also belongs to the city.  And guess what?  It's going to have a new Ted Nelson wing with three thousand children's books. 
 You should be ashamed, young lady! Your body is a sacred temple! 
 (eyes lighting up) Brilliant!  Molly, give me all you've got.  For Merk. 
 Stop that, stop that this instant! 
 I can't wait to see the pictures. 
 Such enthusiasm. Have I told you lately how proud I am of you? 
 You're taking this bull of an empire by the horns, but you're still keeping your small town values. You're not letting all this "stuff" spoil you. 
 I wish I knew you years ago, when my brother was alive. I wish he never gave you up. 
 Why don't you come to town this weekend? We could play some golf, chase some skirts. 
 You're right. I should work, too. Our first issue together is almost ready to print. 
 You're a great kid. Don't you forget it. 
 You can call me Jimmy again. Sheryl Petersen said James sounds too pretentious. 
 She knew exactly where you were staying, which you neglected to tell me, your own brother. 
 Mom and Dad think I'm tucked safely in bed and that's all they need to know. Will this discussion be continuing in the hallway, or somewhere slightly more inviting? 
 Impressive. This is bigger than our whole house. 
 They say money can't buy happiness but this is a reasonably good facsimile. 
 My new bike. 
 I came to ask permission to take custody of your room. 
 Better view, more spacious, new carpet. It's a no-brainer. 
 Mom and Dad said it's yours. They seem to think you're coming home. 
 If you could just sign right there. 
 Just a formality. 
 Are you kidding? Mom and Dad discover I'm gone and I'll be doing hard time. 
 Aside from the fact that Mom's eyes are nearly swollen shut from crying and Dad spends all his time under the car trying to fix stuff that isn't broken, things couldn't be better. 
 You can't come back. That is, you can, but your things will be in the room you currently think of as mine. 
 Funny you should say that. My Grandfather was a peach farmer. 
 I meant biologically. 
 Look Ted. I'm cool with everything. You've long been dissatisfied with our mediocre little town. You've always had an itch for the good life. I'm happy for you. This couldn't happen to a nicer guy. 
 JIMMY (CONT'D) But just for the record, my Mom is a kick-ass schoolteacher and my Dad is the best damn auto mechanic this side of the Himalayas. You seem to have forgotten they opened Nelson's FAMILY Market so they could build something permanent, a legacy, for us. Their kids. 
 You ever look down on them again and call them "grocers" like it's a dirty word, and you'll be sucking your filet mignon through a straw for six to eight weeks. Got it? 
 TED (CONT'D) That's probably my office. 
 Well? Where the hell are you? 
 I got an anonymous tip and an address in Cincinnati. 
 You expected whips, chains, Merk being cattle-prodded by some dominatrix in a leather hood? 
 Amen to that. 
 I'm trembling with excitement. 
 (playing along) My desire betrays me, like goosebumps on my flesh. 
 I figured you for more of a hairy armpit guy. 
 Wearing them?  Or humping them? 
 That's refreshingly deviant. 
 I'm very aural. 
 Sounds, voices, music, humming. All of it can turn me on, or off, like a switch. 
 I had a Portuguese boyfriend who could read the phone book and melt me. 
 You live and learn. I realized the most important thing to me, above all, is trust. 
 You lose trust in someone and it's over, done, gone, forever. 
 Not a chance. 
 Trust is something you earn, over time. You don't just inherit it overnight like a gazillion dollar empire. 
 Maybe someday. 
 That's hard to believe. 
 (O.S.) ..."A feeling deep in your soul/Says you were half, now you're whole..." 
... 
 JULIE & TED OH. MY. GOD. 
 I have to be honest with you, Ted. I really despise "The Girls of Xenia." 
 I mean your pictorial. It bothers me, profoundly. 
 You're telling me you don't get aroused by a roomful of naked breasts. 
 Which explains the continued success of "Heaven" for how many decades? 
 You think you're working with chimps here? 
 Keeping your word is something I can actually respect, Ted. 
. 
 
 I thought I'd be nervous, but you sure know how to make a girl feel relaxed, Teddy Bear. 
 I have to admit, I am so totally turned on. We should do it. Now. 
 You know...take the pictures? 
 Which you pulled, hard! 
 Wanna unzip me? 
 CHRISTY (CONT'D) Remember dress up day?  You and Charlie lifting skirts during recess. 
 Things change. Now I'm taking off my clothes...all by myself. 
 CHRISTY (CONT'D) Well? 
 I mean, what do you think? 
 Oh, Teddy Bear, you're funny. 
 I heard they do this on photo shoots.  Wanna to do the other one? 
 Then I'm ready when you are. 
 I was always too shy to admit how much I liked you. 
 Maybe on the outside. But inside, deep down, I've always been dripping with special sauces. (she smiles, sexily) Are you hungry? 
 Then you better get in the water, before you get burned. 
 CHRISTY (CONT'D) You and me, finally. This will be so fantastic, Teddy Bear. Trust me. 
 Sure you can. You're only human. It's not like you're made of steel. (she lowers her hand) Or ARE you? 
 What's up, doc? 
 I'm sorry, Mr. Ted. She pushed right past me. 
 Go away, Ted. Just go. 
 Being naked is no big deal. It has nothing to do with emotion, nothing to do with love. You can be around all the naked girls you want and you won't be even one step closer to anything meaningful in your life. 
 JULIE (CONT'D) See that? You don't know me even one ounce better than you did before. You and your stupid magazine. I liked you better when you were sweet and kind and human, like the rest of us. 
 (O.S.) We've got a huge problem with the magazine, Ted-baby. Our readers hate it. HATE IT. We need to talk. 
 #1 You got a great sense of humor. I love the three hundred pound Eskimo chick. 
 #2 You like Eskimo pie, Teddy? 
 #3 I like the African chick with the big lip. You could stash a lot of weed in there. Maybe even a six pack. 
 Holy stinkers, what were you thinking? 
 Next time, make sure you put a barf bag in the centerfold. 
 Ted, I realize I owe you an apology. You're destroying "Heaven" much faster from the inside than I ever could from the outside. Good job, son. 
. 
 It was nothing more than beginner's folly. Tell everyone to lighten up. 
 It's a little more serious than that, Bill. The stockholders have requested a meeting. They want our guarantee that this will never happen again. (the words pain her) Some of them are even calling for Ted's resignation. 
 The kid came up with something that sounded good on paper. Who knew our readers wouldn't dig it? 
 Sometimes young people need to make their own mistakes. That's how they learn. 
 Come, let me show you something. 
 Your parents never wanted to interfere with your life, Ted. They knew your Mom and Dad loved you very much. They knew they did the right thing. But that doesn't mean they didn't watch you and miss you, from afar. 
 They kept this scrapbook of your life. It meant the world to them. 
 Giving you up was the most unselfish thing they ever did. When they founded "Heaven," they wished they could take you back but it was too late. All they could do was build the empire, knowing that someday it would all be yours. 
 Your parents would be crushed to think you weren't happy with it. 
 I understand. 
 But how can you respect yourself if you don't? 
 (hugging him) Oh, Teddy. We missed you so much. 
 You were always our number one son. 
 (rolling his eyes) Mom, Dad. This display of unconditional love is appalling. 
 We are a FAMILY. 
 A family, need I remind you, that HE ridiculed and left for dead. 
 I will not have my boys arguing. 
 So, when I'm seventeen, can I turn everyone's life upside-down, behave like a total piece of canine excrement, and then wipe the slate clean with a half-baked apology and a Kodak moment? 
 MOM & DAD No! 
 Which is precisely why I got the rights to my new room IN WRITING. 
 Don't say "shit," honey. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you. 
 Besides, there's no problem too deep or too shitty for us to solve. 
 Son, it's a simple fix. The only difference between my store and that magazine of yours is a bunch of zeros. Now, have I ever told you the story about the can of peaches? 
 Ladies, gentlemen. "Heaven" has gone to hell. 
 What are you doing? 
 TED (CONT'D) The only man I called "Dad" owns a little grocery store in Xenia, Ohio.  He learned a lot of cool stuff from my Grandpa, who was a peach farmer in his day. Grandpa knew the right thing to say in every situation, and it usually involved peaches. My dad's a lot like him. And he taught me, you have to focus on the peachy side of life, not the pits. 
 TED (CONT'D) There was a time when canned peaches were the hottest, greatest thing ever invented. It was like a little taste of summer, anytime you wanted. Grocery stores couldn't keep them in stock, they were so popular. And even though other canned fruits like pears, plums, and pineapples have come along, people still need to know they can get their canned peaches, on the same shelf, whenever they want them. It's comforting, you know? It fulfills their expectations. 
 TED (CONT'D) You're probably wondering if there's a point to all this and I guess it's just that I goofed last month. I not only moved the canned peaches, I restocked the shelves with kiwi, guava, and mandarin oranges in heavy syrup. I challenged people's expectations. And you can't do that to your customers. So, I ask you for one more chance to fix things and give our readers back their canned peaches. 
 TED (CONT'D) Thanks for teaching me an important lesson. What makes a family is love, not blood. 
 All is fair in "Heaven," Ted-baby. 
 Aw, come on, kid. Throw me a bone. I'm your uncle for gosh sakes. 
 
 (V.O.) "It's easy to fall prey to petty jealousy when considering the young life of Ted Nelson. But how would any of us behave if one day all our dreams came true? Would we handle it half as well? Would we find ourselves making the same mistakes for which we criticize him?" 
 Page three. 
 Not bad for a hack. He has a future in yellow journalism. 
 He kicked major ass and you know it. 
 This one's for you Dick Merkin of Tecumseh High. From all your students. With hugs and kisses. 
 Why so melancholy? 
 You were born naked, wet, and hungry. Now you're hip, handsome, and rich. You are the coxswain on the ship of life. 
 Eat, Drink, and Screw Mary! 
 (proudly) I taught him that. 
 From my wise, albeit youthful, vantage point, the world is your oyster. You scored big. 
 You got everything you ever wanted. 
 (O.S.) And who might that be?  Miss July? Miss August? 
 I'm not going anywhere, Ted. You're the one with the champagne wishes and caviar dreams. 
 TED (CONT'D) And I thought maybe I'd take up boating. I've always wanted to be a "coxswain." 
 Very ambitious. I like that. 
 I know where you can find any number of naked girls who'd love to hop on board. 
 Planet Ted. Five years from now. What's happening? 
 I know where you can find an excellent editor-in-chief. 
 Let your fingers do the walking. 
 (taking his hand) You better. 
 I'm a sucker for a happy ending. (hugging Jimmy) Hold me. 
. 
 TED (V.O.) (CONT'D) 
