 (ignoring punches, keeps 
) Will you help me finish this? He turns and kinda smiles as leans away with the rake, then slips and moves with the punches being thrown by RICHARD "Dicky" ECKLUND JR., 38, Micky's half-brother, skeleton-like arms, backwards baseball cap, shorts, work boots, enters frame, shadowboxing around Micky, smiles missing teeth. The two brothers play spar, joking, having fun. Micky throws a and Dicky play snaps his head back. Then Dicky does it to Micky. Then Micky throws an upper cut and Dicky pops his head up, broken toy robot. 
 You knocked my block off! He resets his head, punches Micky. 
 You knocked my block off! 
 (C.C)NTTNTTFT)1 
 (counts like ref) -six, seven, eight. [takes Dicky's hands] Can you continue? [Dicky nods] Who's the president? 
 Five o'clock. Micky waves his hands like Dicky's done. Dicky throws another play punch and Micky hams up going down, getting knocked out, feet flying up in the air. 
 (CONTTNTTFD ) 
 He's down! Micky Ward is down! 4- 3-2-1, it's ovah! He's out! A surprising ovahhand right! Dick Ecklund Jr. is BACK, right hereon HBO, ladies and gentlemen! PAN REVEALS, HBO documentary camerman, and a PRODUCER taping it all. Guys on the ROAD CREW crack up in the background. 
 The Pride a Lowell is back! He pulls Micky up INTO A BROTHERLY ARM BUMP/HUG HANDS CLASPED. Micky smacks the back of Dicky's head as Dicky raises Micky's arm in the air like a champ. 
 
 (SHOUTS) My brothah's gonna beat Mamby, next week, on ESPN, sorry HBO! Camera crew laughs as DICKY helps Micky up, HOLDS BROTHERS' ARMS IN THE AIR, E.L.O.'S 'DON'T BRING ME DOWN' starts; 
 (RNNTTNTTFT) ) 
 (shadowboxing, moving) Look who's here! I'm comin' back, Lowell! Micky's gonna win, we got HBO here! Look at this -- He walks down the street like he's running for office, people shouting his out his name. . .most everyone knows him...and even those who don't are charmed by this toothless Pied Piper... some look confused, surprised by his comeback, some hold memorabilia from his Sugar Ray Leonard fight to sign. He kisses a girl, laughs his missing-toothed grin. Dicky high- fives 19-year-old RAY RAMALHO, crew cut, body bent by cerebral palsy. 
 Ray Ray! Smile, you're gonna be in my movie! HBO's makin' a fuckin' movie about me! And my brothah's gonna win next week! He grabs Micky's arm again, they are trailed by the road crew guys (one holds a boom box) walking behind Dicky shaking their heads, smiling, following. "Don't Bring Me Down" continues... Everybody shouting out Dicky's name, "Dicky!" "Dicky!" "Dicky!" Some calling "Micky!" "Micky!" "Micky!" 
 (shouts over the music) Meet my muthah! We're back on HBO, 
 - His mother, ALICE WARD, 57, caught off guard, smoking, waves them away, hides her face. 
 NO! JESUS! I'm not ready! Catch a glimpse of her tough, sexy, fighter's nose, years of hard life, bleached-blonde hair, sucking on a Lucky Strike, drinking by at a white-topped table cluttered with empty beer bottles, overflowing ashtrays, cigarettes burning out. 
 (shouting over music) My sistahs! Six of Alice's seven daughters ARRIVE, look up as the camera pans and pauses for each one: GAIL "RED DOG" (ECKLUND) CARNEY, 35, skinny, red hair; SHERRY "THE BABY"; PHYLLIS "BEAVER" ECKLUND, 32, blonde red, tall. CATHY "PORK" ECKLUND, 30, full breasts, bleached-blonde; "LITTLE" ALICE ECKLUND, 31, a mini-version of Alice; DONNA (ECKLUND) JAYNES; 36, round face, bleached-blonde, CINDY "TAR" (ECKLUND) COOPER, 33, wasted; and They are like a bleached blond, cigarette smoking Greek chorus that trails Alice everywhere. PAN FROM ONE TWO the next as Dicky introduces them, seeing each distinctive, hardened face. 
 (as each nods to camera) That's Red Dog, Sherry, the baby, Beavah, Pork, Little Alice, Donna, and Tar. They follow my muthah everywhere! 
 (Holding a napkin to his 
) I'm Mary, the eighth sister. Alice runs for the bathroom. Dicky chases after her through the crowd and the smoke and the music. 
 (CONTTNTTFT) ) 
 (C ) 
 I'm confused, George's whose father? 
 
 (TOOTHLESS GRIN) - Who knows how many fathahs, Alice ain't prejudice, she gives everybody a chance! Alice punches Dicky in the arm. 
 
 (NODS) Dick Ecklund Sr. is Dicky's father 
 (CONTTNTTFT)1 
 And Donna's, Gail's and Phyllis's fathah. 
 And even though I'm an Eklund, and so is Cindy and Cathy, George is really our dad. 
 George is my Poppa. 
 But we got the Eklund name. 
 (horrified by all of this) Dick Ecklund and I were separated. It's not like I was foolin' around. Producer looks confused. 
 TAR (CINDY) Georgie's fingahs are so fat he can't dial the phone. Pan to George Ward, holding a roofing invoice, trying to dial the buttons on a pay phone next to them. 
 (trying to dial pay phone) Shut up, Tah. Alice and everyone laughs. George reading the roofing invoice, holding the pay phone, and gives them all the finger. Short & fat. 
 That's not helpin', George. 
. 
 You can't beat that ass, come on. George pats his son's shoulder as he stands behind Micky at the bar, both looking at Charlene. Awkward. 
 (RNNTTNTTFD ) 
 (works, not looking) Are you gonna say anything? Are you gonna order a drink? Are you gonna just stand there lookin' at my ass? Your father looks at my ass but at least he talks. Micky looks at her. 
 (works not looking) He thinks you're the greatest, but he didn't tell me you're mute. 
 You're Kenny Fleming's sistah. 
 (RUNTTNTTRT)1 
 (works, not looking) Oh, you talk. You pave streets, right? 
 I do, and I'm a fightah. 
 (CONTTNTTPD ) 
 (works, not looking) I heard you're a steppin' stone. 
 A steppin' stone?! I'm no steppin' stone. What do you mean steppin' stone? 
 (finally turns and looks) The guy -- they use -- against othah fightahs to move the othah fightahs up. Micky and Charlene stare at each other. He is taken aback. 
 Maybe I had a few -- tough fights, but that's not who I am. [she stares at him, gauging him]. Next's gonna show who I am. 
 (shouts from behind Micky) He's gonna lose again! [Micky looks away, pissed, like he's gonna leave]. Scotch & soda one for me and one for Charlene, move that sugar ass and get the drinks! Micky suddenly slaps the guy fast twice with one hand, the guy kinda falls to the bar. 
 Be nice! Be respectful. Don't disrespect her. Charlene watches, slightly turned on. 
 (jumps in front of Micky) Don't hurt ya hands, we got a fight next week! (turns to the drunk) - What you say to my bruthah? What you say to me? OTHER BARTENDER plunks down the drunk's drinks. 
 (peaking above the bar) I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Micky. 
 ( 1 
 And whatta ya say to me? 
 I'm sorry, Dicky. 
 (to Charlene, hugs Micky's 
) That's right, and I'm takin' ya drink. My bruthah's gonna beat Saoul Mamby! This guy's gonna be a champion, he's a great guy, a great fightah. 
 (NNNTTNT7RT)1 
 That's my big brothah. Taught me everything i know. HBO's doin' a movie about 'im. 
 Everybody's talkin' about it. But who are YOU fightin'? Saoul, Sal, Saul? Mamby, Mamby. Momby. What kinda name is Saoul Mamby? 
 Black. And Jewish. 
 Where'd they find a guy like that? 
 He's no joke, Formah World Champ. 
 Formah champ. 
 But I match up good against him. 
 What's that mean? 
 I'm lightah, not gonna brawl him, I'm gonna outbox him. 
 I didn't know there was a difference. 
 Brawl, ya slug it out, I hit you, you hit me; boxin', like a chess game, I pick my punches to take him down. I'm gonna go head, body, head, body, see I go up his side, I hit him here, arm comes down, I go back up [demonstrates on her, close, looks at her shy] I'd like to maybe take you out some time. 
 (CNNTTNTIFF ) 
 Are you married? 
 Married? Would I ask you out if I was married? 
 It happens all the time, trust me. 
 I'm not married. I wanna get to know you bettah. I could take you to dinnah and a movie, how 'bout that? I'm not married. I got a daughtah I see every othah weekend. Let me take you out. 
 When? 
 Saturday I get back from Atlantic City. 
 (CC)NTTNTTRD ) 
 MICKY (CONT'D) (takes the napkin, smiles) Next Saturday. Dinnah and a movie. 
 (CNNTTNTTFD ) 
 
 Cuz she's quiet, but she'll straighten anyone out. Gail makes a fist, cracks up, covers her missing teeth. 
 Whose your mother's favorite? 
 The princesses. 
 The girls. They all crack up. 
 They never had to do nothin', never take out the garbage, or clean-- 
 You can never wake 'em up, shhh, the babies ah sleepin'. 
 That's cuz we hadda train! Come on! 
 (RNNTTNTTFN ) 
 [STARTS CRYING] This is ah family and they're makin' a movie, it's us 
 (MNTTNTTPD ) 
 She's the baby, Sherry's the baby, very emotional. 
 Ah mothah's excited about the movie, Dicky comin' back. And we hope Micky wins (crosses herself). 
 
 (MID-INTERVIEW) Dicky's six years older than me. (pause) I used to carry his bags (pause) to his workouts, some of his fights. He's a born fighter, very natural talent. I always hadda work harder, and he's been my teacher. He's -- ya know - [real love] Dicky, nobody talks like him, moves like him, he fought Sugar Ray Leonard, ten rounds, he's the hero of Lowell. Everybody knows Dicky. 
 He's s'pposed to be trainin' you right now, right? Is he still coming or did we mix this up? 
 
 (OS) He'll be here -- should be -- 
 He kinda goes on his own schedule sometimes. He'll be here. -- 
 MICKY O'KEEFE 
 (OS) You know where he is -- They turn and look: MICKEY O'KEEFE, 50, COP IN UNIFORM, walks up to the ring. Sisters react with bit of surprise, drama. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE You gotta fight next week, Micky, you gotta be trainin' on time. 
 He'll be here. ( C'.C)NTTNTT1 fl ) 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Come on, I can do the mits for ya, but then I gotta get back to work. He jumps into the ring and holds the mits for Micky who hits them, they work the mits. Sisters whisper, gossip. Suddenly the door bursts open, EVERYONE LOOKS: Alice, made un, hair done, high heels, gold earrings, new dress, grand entrance with Dicky's scrapbooks under her arm...Two more daughters, Little Alice and Beaver, follow her. She stops when she sees the camera guys look up, unprepared. 
 What's he doin'? Where's Dicky? 
 Look at Alice! All dressed up for the movie! 
 Outta the ring, O'Keefe, you can't do what my Dicky does! 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Your Dicky ain't here, Alice. 
 
 (CC)NTTNTTFD ) 
 (to the crew, laughing) Oh, Micky. Micky's a clown. Dicky went to the store for me. 
 Yeah. He'll be here. 
 Get outta the ring, O'Keefe, Dicky's the numbah one trainah, should be that way in the movie. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Jesus, I come by to help! I gotta go back to work anyhow, it ain't fair to Micky. He needs to be trainin'. He's not bein' handled right. 
 (waves off HBO producer) Don't -- he's not part of this, forget him. He's numbah two man 
 You need me walkin' in again? (turns back to the door) - I wasn't ready last night, but I'm ready today. 
 
 Alice is dressed up. Producer nods for cameraman to turn to door. ALICE RE-ENTERS. Alice turns to an old framed BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH on the wall ...A row of 14 year old boys posed in fighter's robes and gloves. 
 That's the Golden Gloves, before that the Silvah Mittens, Micky did that too. Micky used to follow his big brothah everywhere, Dicky taught ya everything, right, honey? 
 (RNNTTNTTFF ) 
 He's not only a great fighter, he's also a pretty great trainer. 
 (C ) 
 (eyes lighting up) My Dicky had went pro at 12, Rockingham Race Track with a 26 year old jockey. Both weighed 106 pounds. Dicky lied he was 18. In the ring, push in on Micky looks up, eyes wide. 
 Tell 'im about Sugar Ray, Ma. Dicky knocked down Sugar Ray Leonard. 
 
 (NODS) In '78 -- we got the offah to fight Sugah Ray Leonahd. 
 He just won the Gold Medal at the Olympics, Sugar Ray. He was the, ya know, the big new welter weight at that time. 
 And Dicky was just a kid from Lowell. 
 Dicky was undefeated! 
 Dicky had never been knocked down in his professional career, neither had Sugar Ray. They were both 21- yeahs-old. 
 It was Dicky's first ten roundah. 
 
 (PAUSES) I know ya could question the judgement, first ten roundah against Sugar Ray Leonard, right? But as his managah, how could I not take a Sugah Ray? Do you see what I'm saying? It was the biggest thing that evah happened to Lowell. 
 (MNTTNTTFD ) 
 It was huge. People still talk about it to this day. It was a great fight. 
 
 ( 15 years earlier, already 
 It's true! Sugar Ray had a hard time hitting Dickie, didn't really knock him down, but Dicky knocked Ray down! I wore a new white dress. This fight was gonna change our lives forevah, and it did. BACK TO VIDEOTAPE, 2ND ROUND, Dicky, 21, bobbing moving versus Sugar Ray, 21. Hear Don Dunphy & Larry Merchant, "Ecklund is fast, Larry. If his goal is to frustrate Leonard, he's doing it. Leonard still hasn't solved his speed, still hasn't been able to find him, I think in his own cute way Ecklund is making Leonard be the aggressor.." 
 (CONTTNTTFM 
 (shakes his head, holding crack smoke in) Wasn't a knockdown. Dicky kneeling smoking a crack pipe. He exhales crack smoke as he pops back to his feet where he bounces on his toes like a fighter opposite GARY "BOOBOO" GIUFFRIDA, 40, a goofy looking chubby crackhead, rotting teeth, trucker's hat; WOLFIE, long sideburns, sunken eyes, 35. Dicky inhales again from pipe, a refashioned plastic soda bottle, lit with a Bic lighter. He starts sparring BooBoo. SINGLE ON Dicky OVER BOOBOO'S SHOULDER, actual audio in his head from the fight: "Ecklund has a bit of a reputation for being a fast-liver, Don." "A what?" "A fast-liver. And they think, at least Angelo said he thought that's what has held him back. But of course with an opportunity like this perhaps he's slowed down his living a little bit." 
 (holding white dog) BooBoo put ya hands up, stand like Sugah Ray I gotta get ready for my movie! 
 Why they doin' a fuckin' movie on you? 
 
 (CAMDODIAN ACCENT) Legend-a Lowell, BooBoo! Comeback! Come on! (CnNTTNTTF.D ) 
 I stahted the ovahhand right in the 8th. Slippin' his left, settin' him up for the knockdown in the 9th. 
 THERE IT IS! First knock downa Sugar Ray's career! 
 (snaps to rare moment of 
) Ain't ya 'sposed to be trainin' Micky in the movie right now? 
 
 (SHADOWBOXING BOOBOO) That's not til 9. 
 It's 11:45, Dick. 
 What?! 
 Where'd you fuckin' pahk the cah, BooBoo? 
 I didn't pahk it, you did! They are on the street of row houses, CAMBODIAN IMMIGRANTS. ( C'.ONTTNTTF.n 1 
 Fuckit, I'll run, I need the 
 - Dicky starts running down the street ...BooBoo shakes his head, "roadwork?"...Wolfie staring after Dicky in shock. 
 Roadwork?! Are you crazy? 
 He runs great even when he's high. 
 
 Quackah! 
 Quackah! Look who decided to show up, Dicky Donuts. 
 (CNNTTNTTFM 
 (notices Alice's hair, 
) - This is nice. She slaps his hand away half coyly. 
 (walks over to the HBO camera, laughs) You been talkin' to the camera, Mick? Introduce everybody! (laughs, points at Carlos) Hoppy cut! 
 (throws upper cut) -Hoppy cut! CARLOS GARCIA, 50, short, Puerto Rican, points back, laughs 
 Goncho, goncho, no goo' for yooou, Deeckie, no goo' for youuu!' 
 (thick Puerto Rican accent, nods) No goo for you, Deeckie! Micky cracks up. Ray Ramalho, cerebral palsey limps up to Dicky, high-fives him. 
 Dickyeeeee! 
 Ray-Ray! (sweetly holds Ray's head to his to teach him) Put ya hands like this, turn that punch. Turn it. Ya ready for the camrahs? Micky's stands waiting, watching Dicky putting on a show. It's always the Dicky show. 
 
 ( C:ONTTNURD ) 
 Micky, how do ya make a girl sound just like a porpoise? 
 I don't know, how? 
 Ya go for the back door [Looks over his shoulder, shakes his head 'no' ]" "Eh-Eh! Eh-Eh!' [Everyone cracks up] I had a lot of eggs this mornin' I'm full of yokes! Micky laughs as he punch/taps Dicky in the ribs. 
 (holds his back) My back! My back! 
 (laughing, mimics Dicky) "My back! My back! I'm full a yokes!" Quackah! 
 We got Saoul Mamby. Jewish, black, formah World Champ. I think we got all the bases covahed, right? (laughs) Micky lost three fights in a row, he can't get used to losin', it becomes a mental thing, we're gonna break it with Mamby, right? 
 Yeah, let's train! 
 (CONTTNTTRD 
 Enough a you wastin' time, Mick, half the fuckin' day's gone, we got work to do! Micky glares at Dicky like he's going to fucking hit him. 
 Oooh, Alice, he's mad now, look at him. Ya hit one those guys like ya wanna hit me right now maybe ya woulda won one of them fights! (laughs to HBO producer) See? He's a quiet guy, he needs the fire. 
 (calls out combinations) Work, work, head, body, head, body. [To camera] Set it up sneaky, switches stances inside. No! [shoves Micky] That's too far out, switch inside, see, he switches outside, I'm gonna catch him like this, [upper cuts Micky, nails him], don't switch OUTSIDE! Micky, mad, throws a fast combination back but Dicky leans on the ropes and SLIPS IT ALL, clinches Micky, smiles at camera, pops his hips forward. 
 
 (shouting at Micky) Micky does everythin' I tell him, he's goin' all the way to a world title! Now move, that's why you dropped the weight! We're gonna out box Mamby. [Now to Producer] Three months. I can get myself back in shape in three months. 
 (hand on Dicky's shoulder) My Dicky can do anything! Micky looks over annoyed. 
 Hook-- Head-Body-Head! C'mon! That's ya fuckin' combo, head-body- head! 
 Dicky taught him that! 
 (throwing the combo himself) Ya know Sugah Ray's gonna be there callin' the fight for ESPN. I ain't seen him since since I knocked 'im down 14 yeahs ago. (shouts at Micky in ring) You don't wanna embarrass yaself in front a Sugah Ray, do ya Mick?! Micky scowls at them, gets inside, unloads a vicious hook to Gilberto's ribs. Jose crumples down to the canvas. .Micky's eyes go wide as he looks down at Jose on the ground. Micky's surprised himself, that was good! 
 That's ya punch, Micky. 
 (CNNTTNTTRD) 
 (nods, clapping) Both my boys are gonna do it! 
 (hiding a young smile) Hey Jose, I'm sorry. [helps Jose 
 That's a kidney punch, shuts the whole body down. Right heah - [pokes HBO producer on the spot and he bends over in pain, Dicky laughs]. 
 (energized, hopeful) I feel good. I feel lightah. 
 DICKY (CONT'D) You look good! You can definitely do this. You look good in there, Micky, real good. [false teeth sideways, crazy face]. I'm Saoul Mamby, Micky Ward hit me - Dicky arm around Micky, walks up to Alice at her car, Little Alice and Beaver getting inside. He shoves his dentures coo- coo sideways -- 
 (RLNTTNTTFD ) 
 (CNNTTNTTFF ) 
 (scrunches her neck & shoulder, squirms away 
! 
 LAURIE'S HUSBAND 
 (WHISPERS) Micky, how's it goin'? Ya know I don't think Laurie's expecting -- LAURIE CARROLL, 32, dirty blonde, thin walks up. 
 What's he doing here? This isn't your visitation day, Micky. 
 I just wanna say hi to Kasie. 
 It's not your day, goodbye. 
 I'm not around next weekend -- 
 Now you're ditchin' the days you DO have? 
 I have a fight I told you that. (To Jimmy) Jimmy -- 
 ( ) 
 I can't get in the middle. 
 I'm asking YOU, Jimmy. I can't talk to her, so I'm asking YOU. 
 Kasie, talk to your father. .Micky's daughter, KASIE WARD, 10, curly hair, cute, comes up to the door, hugs her father hello. 
 Goddamnit, Jimmy! 
 Don't put me in the middle-a this 
 (through the doorway) Daddy's gotta fight Saoul Mamby- 
 That's right, and I wanna tell ya that after I win -- 
 Talk to her on your days! 
 I'm gonna staht makin' good money 
 Hah! That's a good one! 
 I'll move to a biggah apahtment so you can live with me more days like we talked about. 
 Don't hold ya breath, Kasie. It's cruel to mislead ya child, Micky. She closes the door, arguing inside with Jimmy. 
 (shouts through door) Good luck, Daddy! ( C'.nNTTNTTFD ) 
 (shouts to door) Thanks, Kasie. 
 Micky's apartment above a two-car garage, next to a gray Victorian house, lower-class neighborhood. 
 Micky parks in front of his parents' house; a limo out front. Micky opens the door, grabs his suitcase... 
 (embraces Little Dicky) Little Dicky, listen to Mummy, you be good for ya Aunt Cathy so ya daddy can help ya Uncle Micky win a fight, OK? 
 .Micky, Alice, George, Pork, Sherry, and Red Rog standing around the limousine. All dressed nice for their travel. They exchange looks. George shakes his head and mutters something to himself. No sign of fucking Dicky. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (lowers his voice) It's none a my business, but I been goin' to meetin's, and they say let go and let Gahd. You don't need this shit, Micky. Let's just go without 'im. 
 (RONTTNTTFF ) 
 (looks down at his feet) - thanks, Mick, but Dicky taught me everything, he's been in my cornah, ya know. I can't do it without 'im. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE You're already doin' it without him. 
 (shouts from downstairs) Dicky, YOUR MUTHUAH'S OUTSIDE! 
 (real fear in his eyes) I'm not here! Bonnie laughs as Dicky rushes for an open window in the back of the kitchen, 2nd floor of the crack house. Dicky climbs out the window and jumps... 
 What the fuck are you doin'? 
 
 (WHISPERS) Don't tell Ma I'm here, pick me up back at the house, I'll go through the yahds - 
 We gotta go to the airport now. You know how important this fight is. 
 (CNNTTNTTFF ) 
 
 (WHISPERS) Pick me up at the house! Micky gives Dicky a boost onto a fence to climb over. 
 
 (BOOSTING DICKY) Hurry up, she's out front, and we gotta flight to catch. But as Dicky struggles to climbing over, George comes charging toward them. 
 (CONTTNTIFT) ) 
 (CNNTTNTTFT) ) 
 This is what you do to ya brothah the day we travel? George pulls Dicky off the fence, swings at him with a big punch; Dicky slips the punch and nails George in the eye with an overhand right, George goes down. Micky rolls his eyes. 
 Could we please just go to the airport for once? Alice comes around the corner. 
 
 (SCREAMS) Ohmygawd, Dicky, why do you come to this place? 
 (walks her, arm around) No, no, I just came to check on some friends, I'm not mixed up in this. Micky looks at his mother in disbelief, his father down on the ground behind him... . his brother high out of his mind. 
 Help ya husband up, Alice. Ya husband's on the ground there. Instead Dicky helps Alice up the driveway to the limo. Micky helps his father to his feet. 
 Close the door. 
 Hold on. BOO BOO STARTS TO CLIMB IN, 'COSMO' written on forehead. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE What the fuck is he doin' here? 
 ( ) 
 We got a promotional thing we're doin', for the bar, it's gonna be good, you'll see. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE No. That's distracting for Micky. 
 Nobody asked you! 
 No. No BooBoo. BooBoo looks to Dicky who rolls his eyes; BooBoo leaves. Micky stares in disbelief. 
 (excited, jumps up off the bed, showing Micky) See his right ahm goes leaves his side open, light him up like a pinball machine, he'll be pissin' blood, no way you lose, no way - .Alice and LOU GOLD, 40s, balding, mustache, the matchmaker for ESPN, walk into the room, "Mamby vs Meekins" still playing on TV. Alice looks serious. 
 (stretches out his back) ESPN couldn't get us bettah rooms than this, Lou? 
 I wouldn't worry about the rooms, Dicky, we gotta bigger issue. 
 ( ) 
 Like what? 
 
 Why not? 
 He's got the flu. 
 Mamby got the flu?! 
 feels his whole fight plan go out the window. 
 We can still have a fight, Micky. Micky stares at him. 
 With who? 
 Mike Mungin. 
 Mike Who? Mungin? 
 The guy from Philly, ain't he in prison? 
 He's been out a few months. It's the only guy we could find, I called everybody. 
 The last few fights were rough, Lou, this one's 'sposed to be a little easiah. 
 The guy just got off the couch today, it's an easy win for Micky. Dicky and Alice nod, Micky unsure. 
 Joey Ferrell knocked this guy out. (C_nNTTNTTT?T)1 
 Micky knocked out Joey Ferrell. 
 Exactly, and Mungin just got off the couch. He can't make weight, of course, he's a bit over. 
 How over? 
 Maybe 162, 165. 
 
 (EYES WIDE) 
 He's a fuckin' middleweight, Ron! 
 Micky got light! He's 146! 
 We're gonna box Mamby, not slug it out with a middleweight! 
 He's fat! He just got off the couch! 
 (exhales, thinks) OK. And Joey Ferrell knocked him out. I gotcha. 
 Hold on, 165's big. 
 You knocked out Joey Ferrell. 
 So what? The guy's a middleweight. 
 He just got off the couch. 
 He's 20 pounds bigger than me. 
 (CONTTNIWN 1 
 Joey Ferrell knocked him out! You knocked out Joey Ferrell. 
 You just said that. 
 You can't be scared. 
 How 'bout you go fight him? He's a middleweight. 
 He's fat. You knocked out Joey Ferrell. 
 How many times ya gonna say I knocked out Joey Ferrell? A beats B B beats C so A can beat C? But what if it rains that day, anything could happen -- 
 You don't fight, nobody gets paid. Whoa. Micky sees Alice and Dicky looking at him. 
 OK. Joey Ferrell knocked this guy out. And I knocked out Joey Ferrell. They all nod. 
 You gotta pay us somethin' extra for the change, Lou. [He nods] 
 I don't spell my name with an 'e. 
 (CNNTTNTTF N' 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Don't fuckin' ask me. I just take what ya give me. O'Keefe turns back to Micky who's staring at MIKE "MACHINE GUN" MUNGIN, 27, 5'9", 158 lbs, red trunks, in the opposite corner: HUGE, and in prison shape, big biceps, shoulders, neck. Micky's eyes widen with fear. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE That guy's not a welter weight. 
 (whispers to his brother) Dicky, look at that guy. .Dicky's not listening, waving to the HBO cameraman filming ringside... sees SUGAR RAY LEONARD, now 38, sitting ringside, calling the fight for ESPN with AL BERNSTEIN, 40s, salt & pepper hair, mustache. 
 Ray! Sugah Ray! Ovah heah! Sugar Ray doesn't respond to Dicky. He's talking to the ESPN camera, still looks young, handsome, not a mark on him. 
 We gotta talk latah! 
 Dicky, listen to me. I can't lose again. Look at that guy. 
 Holy shit. [rubs Micky's neck] 
 MICKY O'KEEFE Yeah, holy shit, stop lookin' at Sugar Ray and wake up. We'll hafta run the first few rounds, get 'im tiahed, he can't be ready, right? He just got off his fuckin' couch. 
 He did not just get off his fuckin' couch. 
 Look at me, Mick, don't look away. 
 (CNNTTNTTFV) ) 
 ((''CNTTNTTPT) 
 You can't go back to fightin' scared, you gotta hit back like you know you can and I know you can. I don't care who that guy is, you're Micky Ward. Micky nods, but we see he's scared; it's not a fair fight. 
 - Button it up, Ed. If you can't stop the bleedin', we'll fuckin' sue ya. .Ed Aliano smiles, sticks swabs up Micky's nose to stop the bleeding, get everything cleaned out. . .Dicky pours water into Micky's mouth. Micky swishes it around, spits it out... 
 You okay? 
 (C_C)NTTNTTTT) ) 
 (looks up at his brother; knows he can't win) 
 - 
 What're you doin' out there? You feel like fightin' or what? You gotta jab and move. Don't stand in front of this guy, keep 'im off ya, jab and move - (shows him, jabbing the air, moving back & forth) Jab and move. What are you ascared of? You're fightin' scared again! Micky just nods. 
 (CONTTNTIRT) 
 We nevah shoulda fought that guy. Forget about it. Alice, HBO's waitin' for us. Sugah Ray's out there! C'mon you come too, Mick. Dicky heads back out. Alice looks at Micky, pats his cheek and follows after Dicky, leaving Micky sitting alone on the trainer's table. 
 RAAAAAAAY! Hey, Ray,-- The bodyguard stops him. Sugar Ray sees Dicky and waves him over.. .Dicky smiles, missing teeth. The HBO cameraman following after him. Sugar Ray shakes Dicky's hand. 
 That's what I was tellin' 'im! I told 'im, Ray. But Mungin weighs like 160 pounds! ESPN fucked us,-- (stretches his back, turns to Sugar Ray's girl) Ya know I knocked Ray down. 
 ( C''NNTTNTTFT)) 
 Oh don't say that now. I know I look like shit, but,-- I went 10 rounds with you, Ray, I knocked you down. C'mon, lemme buy you guys a drink. 
 (points to the HBO 
) HBO's doin' a movie on me, Ray. And I'd like to call ya sometime, I'm gonna get a fight, and I'd like ya to be there for old time's sakes, ya know, maybe you can commentate on it or somethin'. 
 (looks at Sugar Ray like he's fucking crazy; what 
 Nevah bettah, Ray, nevah bettah. God bless. Sugar Ray smiles and slips out of the casino with the girl and his bodyguard, leaving Dicky & Alice standing alone under the bright neon lights. HBO camera still filming... 
 What's he talkin' to Mike Toma for? He starts to head over. 
 (RNNTTNTTFD ) 
 (holds Dicky back, lowering her voice so the camera doesn't hear) Stay heah, Dick, stay heah, don't go ovah thayh. 
 (shakes his head, gruff 
) You goin' to the hospital? 
 
 (NODS) They said I need stitches. 
 (pulls Micky in closer, lowers his voice) Listen, Mick, I'm just gonna cut to it, you never shoulda fought that guy. You should be doin' better. With all due respect, I don't think you're bein' handled properly. I wanna give you a real shot. I want ya to come with me. I wanna pay ya to train with my guys. 
 Where? 
 Las Vegas. Do it right and make one last run at this thing before it's too late. 
 You'll pay me to train in Vegas? 
 Change of scenery's good, get outta Lowell. Micky looks at him, eyes widen as he looks over Toma's shoulder; he seems to feel a touch of VERTIGO AS CAMERA CIRCLES so we can see what he's looking at: ALICE AND DICKY 
 ( C'_NNTTNTTFF ) 
 What about my brothah? 
 (shakes his head) With all due respect, he's too much trouble. You owe it to yourself to come to Vegas. 
 Hear his mother and father and brother laughing, kibbitzing, smoking cigarettes. 
 What did Mike Toma want? 
 (looking out window, 
) He wants to train me in Vegas. Alice and Dicky glance at each other, and study Micky. 
 You can't trust that guy, Micky, you don't know 'im. Did he say anythin' about me? Did he say I could come? 
 (looking out window) No, he didn't mention you. 
 Who's gonna look out for ya in Vegas, Micky? They're all crooks out there. What would you do without Dicky? Or the family? 
 (looks at Dicky) Yeah I know. That's what I told 'im. Micky looks back out the window, face bandaged, no emotion. 
 Everyone walking away from the limo, suitcases in hand. Micky heading for his shitty car parked on the street, Dicky walking to Alice's house with his mother and father. Micky O'Keefe stands nearby at his car. Pork, Tar, Beaver, Sherry and Red Dog are also there. 
 (calls out to Micky) Take care, Mick, we'll talk tommorrah. Little Dicky runs out of the house into Dicky's arms. 
 Hey, champ! Daddy's home! 
 Not this time, Dicky, try and gimme a sock in the nose-- Micky, lost in thought, stands at his car watching Dicky playing with Little Dicky. 
 
 Nah, I don't think I wanna do this no more. 
 What? 
 (looks up as Little Dicky tags him in the nose) What're you talkin' about? George walks over to his Micky sympathetically as Dicky grabs his brother by the shoulders. 
 ESPN screwed us, they owe us. We'll get anothah fight. Just get healed up, Micky, you're okay - 
 (RNNTTNTTFF ) 
 Listen to your bruthah, honey, they owe us big time. Maybe they could even do Dicky's comeback fight too. Micky just nods okay. Dicky pats him on the back as Micky gets into his car. 
 Christ, Alice, he's been through the wringah - 
 What're you talkin' about? (to O'Keefe who's staring 
 (groggy, out of it) What,-- What is it? He gets up off the couch and peeks through the shade.. .AND SEES CHARLENE STANDING ON HIS DOORSTEP. Scared, he ducks back down, crouches behind a chair. KNOCKING continues. 
 (RNNTTNTTFT)) 
 CHARLENE (OS) I saw your shadow. And I heard you talk two seconds ago! Micky doesn't move. 
 CHARLENE (OS) Why don't you open the door and tell me to my face why you didn't call me yestahday? Micky thinks, goes to the door, opens it. Charlene is slightly taken aback by his bandaged face. 
 - Why'd you stand me up last night? 
 I was gonna call, I started to call, but I couldn't call. 
 'Cuz you lost the fight? 
 
 (PAUSE) Maybe, yeah, 'cuz I lost the fight. They stand there looking at each other. 
 How'd you know my house anyway? 
 I asked my brothah,-- (sees one of the bandages on his head peeling away) Your, ahhh, your thing is comin' off. She points to his face. He touches the right side bandage. 
 No, the othah thing. It's a mess. It IS a mess. 
 Ya got any tape? 
 
 I didn't get to fight the Jewish black guy. 
 You didn't go head-body-head. 
 (shakes his head) He got the flu, the guy who took his place had 16 pounds on me, I nevah shoulda fought him. 
 So why'd you fight him? 
 Nobody woulda got paid. Everybody said I could beat 'im. 
 Who's everybody? 
 My mothah and my brothah. She looks at him as she takes this in. 
 So are you gonna take me to dinnah and movie tonight or what? 
 (CINTTNTTFN ) 
 Wow, you look great. You got a nice house. 
 Thanks. It's an apahtment building. 
 Oh. 
 There's five of 'em in there, one-a my old roommates lives in one. 
 (closes the door, gets into the car) Old roommates from where? 
 College, but a lot a good it did me, I'm workin' in a bah. 
 You seem to enjoy it. You're very populah down there - 
 Uh yuh. Popular. I need to get the hell outta that place. If I don't drink while I'm workin' I'd kill myself - 
 (starts the car, looks over at her) What college? 
 U.R.I. Full boat. 
 Scholarship? For what? 
 I was a high jumpah. 
 (CNNTTNTIFF ) 
 A high jumpah?! You gotta be kiddin' me. 
 Fuck you, I cleahed 5-10, I was New England Champ, but so what, I nevah graduated. I pahtied too much. 
 (drives looks at her raising an eyebrow) You?! Charlene laughs lightly through her nose. 
 LEXINGTON- NIGHT Night. Micky pulls up to an art house movie theater in another city, state (right next door), "hip" part of town. They get out of the car. 
 (looking around the theater, street) What the hell we doin' in Richie Rich Lexington? You come to this theatah a lot? 
 Oh yuh, it's a good movie theatah. They have good movies. 
 Like what? 
 
 (MUMBLES) Bell-ah Epa-cue. The marquis says "BELLE EPOOUE" is playing. 
 I think Belle Epic is how ya say it and I nevah heard of it. Is it only playin' up here in Lexington? 
 Oh yuh. And I heard it's a good movie. 
 (RNNTTNTTFN ) 
 From who? 
 (walks ahead of her) Guy at work - She looks at him puzzled as she they enter the theater. 
 That's what you wanted to see? There wasn't even any sex. What Lowell guy on a road crew saw that movie in Lexington and recommended it?? Micky walks quickly ahead to the car, can't find his keys. 
 
] 
 Micky. [He stops, turns] They're in your hand. Micky looks at the keys in his hand, embarrassed. 
 What's going on? You afraid to run into your girlfriend? You have a girlfriend, just say it, that's why you took me to Lexington. then stops, puts the car in park and turns the engine off. f nNTTNTTFT)' 
 I don't have a girlfriend. I came here because I don't wanna show my face in Lowell. 
 (CNNTTNTTFT)1 
 - What do you have to be ashamed of? 
 
 (GROWS DARK) I told everyone I was gonna win that fight and get back on track. I told Kasie we'd get a biggah place so she could move in. 
 (stares at him a beat) You said you never shoulda fought that guy, but your mothah and your brothah wanted ya to do it. 
 What's the difference, I'm alone in the ring anyway. 
 You think your family's lookin' out for ya? 
 (finally looks at her) You can't say that about my family. 
 What else could I say after what you told me? Look at your face, look at you. Beat. He suddenly leans in and kisses her. The kiss builds with confidence and passion to a very intense level of connection and abandon and promise. 
 (RNNTTNTTRT)) 
 
 (INTO PHONE) - Bullshit, Lou, I'm not gonna stop callin' til ya make it right and give us a fight that's fair! My boy coulda got killed last time. . .Like what? ...What else?... OK, what is it? Mm, mm. Now you're talkin', that sounds very interesting, I'll get back to you. [Hangs up] We gotta a great opportunity, we gotta find Micky. 
 Nobody seen him for like a week. 
 Jesus, it used to be Dicky was the one we couldn't find, now it's both of 'em? 
 TAR (CINDY) I think Micky's with that girl from the bah. 
 What girl? 
 BEAVER (PHYLLIS) I heard she's into threeways. 
 With othah girls. 
 PORK (CATHY) Yeah like one of them MTV girls - 
 PORK (CATHY) Wild. (C ONTTNTT1 fl 
 TAR (CINDY) She acts all superiah 'cuz she went to college. 
 Just find Micky and tell him we have business to discuss. I'm gonna go find Dicky myself. 
 Alice, trailed by Dicky holding the white dog, walks back to her car from the crack house, trying not to cry. Dicky, behind her like a kid in trouble, looks like shit, up for days. She pauses at the car, crying. Dicky hugs her shoulders with one arm. 
 (looks Charlene up & down) - I've heard a lot about you. 
 Really? I heard a lot about you, too. 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 The same thing you meant. Micky shifts uncomfortably toward the sofa. 
 Why don't we sit down and hear what's goin' on businesswise? 
 (smiles, excited again, proud of herself) 
 (C) ) 
 ALICE (CONT'D) I got ya anothah fight, Mick, just like I said I would. Lou Gold and ESPN made it right. 
 (holds white dog) Just like I told ya! Against Joey Belinc in six weeks at Foxwoods! Kid's like 10-8. He's nuthin'. And they're payin' us 25 grand! 
 (nods, still smiling 
) 17.5, Dick. 
 17.5, I thought you said 25, anyway that's still good money, Mick. 
 Oh yuh. That's good, Dick, I'm just, ya know, trying to figure out what's best for me-- Micky tilts his head, cat's got his tongue. They all look at him. Alice lights a cigarette, exhales, tense. 
 (exhales cig smoke) Like what? 
 What!? Charlene looks at Micky, as if to say, "speak. is He looks at her, she starts to open her mouth, stops. 
 (looks at Micky, hurt) I don't know why you're not more excited, Mick. I thought ya'd be more excited. That's good money. It's a good fight. I got tough with Lou Gold, Micky, I told him he owes us. 
 Yeah, I know, Ma. It's just,-- I don't want things goin' the way they been goin'. 
 ( ) 
 (mouth open, wild-eyed) Why, how they been goin'? You're the one in the ring, Micky, yeah that last one was unfair, but we ain't gonna repeat that, so it's up to you in the ring. 
 I know, but I don't want things to go like they been goin' HERE. 
 Here, this, us, Lowell. The routine. 
 We're workin' very hard for you, Micky, I don't know what more you want. 
 What's his problem? Micky sits back and folds his arms, a bit frustrated. 
 I don't know, maybe you not showin' up on time to train. Maybe Micky havin' to come find you in a crack 
-- 
 Crack house?! 
 --when you're sposed to go to the airport. 
 (glares at Charlene) I'm sorry, I don't understand who you ah or why you're talkin' - 
 My name is Charlene, you just met me, I'm datin' Micky. Should we do it again? Hi, my name is Charlene. 
 (CENTTNTTFD ) 
 What do you know about anythin'! We don't even know who you ah. 
 You just met her - 
 (C()NTTNTTFT)1 
 (sits back, laughs) YOU just met her! 
 (laughing with his mother) He don't know who she is! 
 We're togethah. 
 (nods, getting pissed off) We're together, don't insult me and don't insult Micky. 
 You gonna listen to some MTV girl who works in a bah. What does she know about boxin'? 
 
 (looks over at Micky) - Ah you gonna let 'er talk like that to your muthah? 
 PORK (CATHY) C'mon, Micky! 
 I told you we're together! This is my girlfriend, I want her here. 
 
 Stop callin' me a MTV girl, whatever the fuck that means. 
 Wild. [Charlene makes a face] 
 1 
 (wipes a tear) I been doin' this for ovah 15 years, she comes in and disrespects 
 And me. 
 She don't mean no disrespect. I had a chance to get paid to train year round, that's all she's talkin' about. I think everyone can appreciate that. Dicky stares taking this in, wheels turning. 
 Of course! Of course, Micky, I coulda had that! I know what you're talkin' about. You think I'm stupid? 
 He knows, we know -- 
 Ma, please, let me say this 
 (PAUSE) I had opportunities like you're gonna maybe have. I had a girl I wanted to be home with.[Sad for a moment] You should have that. No one's sayin' you shouldn't have that. But I can't have you goin' to Vegas, we gotta stick together, Micky, please. I can get ya money to train yeah 'round, if that's what ya want. I'll handle it. Dicky looks at Micky. . .then turns to Alice and nods his head at her. He's got it. She's puzzled. Micky nods. Uncomfortable awkwardness as everyone looks at him and Charlene. 
 
 (CNNTTNTTFD ) 
 
 (OS) You put in $200, then you get ten OTHER people -- 
 (CC)NTTNTTFN ) 
 -- to give YOU $200 each, and now you have your $2,000. 
) Translates to Cambodian. 
 Understand? 
 Everyone give you 200 dollah? 
 Not everyone, just 10 a you. 
 Ten lucky ones. Karen shouts at the others in Cambodian. 
 You rip us off! 
 No no no no. I'm givin' you an 
! 
 You give ME $200! 
 You get that from TEN OTHAH PEOPLE you offah the opportunity to. 
 You think Cambodian people STUPID. 
 White people do this! To othah white people! It's what makes the world go 'round. 
 (puts an arm around Karen) I love Cambodian people! They all yell in Cambodian at Dicky who looks aggravated, still holding onto Quackah. 
 (mumbling fast to camera, high out of his mind) They didn't understand. They're practically my gang, they usually listen to me but didn't understand the opportunity, anyway, where were 
 Before you fought Sugar Ray -- 
 Oh, yeah, all the money I coulda made if we just fuckin' did it RIGHT, they threw me in too early. We didn't know, my mothah didn't know, Sugar Ray was too much, too soon. I needed to build slow. If I had Micky's discipline, with my talent, forget about it. My wife Debbie was the prettiest girl in Lowell, and my daughtah Kasie, I mean Kerry, I want Kerry to be proud a me. [Lights pipe] 
 Why you let them film you smokin'? What this movie about again? 
 Hey's crazy! 
 I told you it's about crack addiction. Showing what can happen, what it really is, so kids can see it for real. 
 I can tell ya about the way it works in the brain-- 
 (CONTTNTTFT)) 
 Excuse me, BooBoo, it's still my movie, and this part [lights pipe] will make me and Micky's comeback more dramatic. I'll tell ya how crack works [inhales from pipe]. 
 (C'ONTTNTIFF 1 
 DICKY (CONT'D) When it entahs ya blood, ya get a peaceful energetic feeling ovah ya body, a kinda happiness - As his words continue we PUSH IN ON Dicky'S FACE and CUT TO FLASHBACK: medium shot, Dicky sits by a window, high; from this dissolves a second Dicky who dances a slow happy, funk dance across the room; out of this second Dicky dissolves a third Dicky who lies on the couch, Karen comes and makes out with him -- 
 (OS over the above) -all the mistakes and the regrets of the past melt away, you feel so much lightah like when you were young and everything's in front of you. Then it fades and you gotta get high again. All three Dickys in the flashback - by the window, dancing, making out on couch -- flicker and vanish to the grating sound of aphone left off the hook. PULL OUT FROM Dicky's face in present 
 
 (EXHALES SMOKE) Fuck I gotta find money for Micky. What time is it? 
 Why aren't you at work? Is ESPN paying you to train? 
 
 (OS) Dicky's handlin' it. 
 Dicky? Alice would be better than Dicky. 
 
 (OS) Would you jump for Chrissakes? Kasie's bein' very patient. 
 (CONTTNTTFT)1 
 Maybe it's too hard for her. Maybe there's not enough cushions. 
 It's only 5'1", she did 5'8" as a champ, right Charlene? 5'8"? Charlene jogs a little curve to the bar and LEAPS backwards, clearing 5'1," landing on the pillows. 
 Fuck, those pillows barely did the job, pardon my French, Kasie. 
 Hey, we gotta get you home Kasie, I gotta business dinnah with Nana. 
 You wanna date? The businessman swallows and nods as he looks at Karen's nipples and body. 
 (RNNTTNTTFT) 
 Oh shit. 
 (through cheap megaphone 
 (puts his hands on roof) Please, God, I never did this before, I have two kids, a wife and I support my mother and my aunt. 
 Empty ya pockets, put everything on the roof, ID, wallet, cash. Your wife know you're here, huh? 
 (confused, starts to turn) No, what? Are you - are you a cop? 
 (swaying, wasted drunk) Don't turn around! Empty ya pockets! The guy empties his pockets onto the roof of the Volvo. BooBoo sits in Dicky's station wagon. 
 Walk to the sidewalk, we have to take the vehicle. [Takes cash, mumbles to Karen] Take half, get us some rocks. 
 How will I get home? Suddenly the BWOOP-BWOOP of a police siren and the flashing lights as a COP CAR PULLS UP AND ANOTHER BUSINESS MAN, bald, gets out and POINTS AT Dicky. 
 (RNNTTNTTT T) ) 
 
 (excited, smiles proud) What do ya think, Mick? Looks good, right? 
 (kisses his mother hello, 
) Oh, yeah, Ma, it looks great. Dicky comin'? 
 (looks at watch) He'll be here. 
 (nods, kisses Charlene 
) Yuh. Hey, Charlene didja quit the bah? 
 Didn't she just staht workin' there? 
 She did. But she's wants to quit to go for teachah certification. 
 
 (CHUCKLES) I thought she was plannin' to live offa Micky. Charlene gives Alice a look. 
 (CONTTNTTFT) ) 
 C'mon, c'mon, this is 'sposed to be about the fight, let's just talk about the fight -- 
 (C'_C)NTTNTTRT)) 
 What?! I was just makin' a joke for chrissakes. I'm sorry, Charlene. 
 It's OK, I know you been tryin' to live offa Micky for years. 
 Can we talk business? 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (changing the topic) Is there gonna be a press conference? 
 ( Y ) 
 Yeah, five days before the fight -- 
 LOWELL - NIGHT .Dicky running down the street toward the restaurant, passing the COSMOPOLITAN CAFE, crowd of people out front, BOUNCER, 6'4", 230 lbs., sirens in the air. 
 (puts his hand up, shakes 
) Whoa, spucky teeth, I thought you were smokin' rocks, now you're gargling with 'em? 
 (looks away, mumbles) You're 'bout to lose your breath. 
 I'm about to lose my what? And Dicky nails the bouncer in the gut, drops him to his knees, wind knocked out of him, then Dicky hooks his jaw... 6'4" guy dropping fast, hitting the sidewalk, sickening thud. COP CHASING HIM on foot runs up, Dicky PUNCHES HIM OUT. Busting open his nose, blood pouring. Dicky takes a swing at ANOTHER COP. More police cars pull up. Officers jump out and slam Dicky to the ground! Dicky screams, fighting back, kicking and punching the police arresting him... 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE We were lookin' at tape today on Belinc and I think if Micky cuts off the ring in most rounds -- 
 
 (RNNTTNTTRT) ) 
 Whoa. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (glances back, shouts) Don't, Micky! I don't want ya gettin' hurt before the fight! He rushes out after Alice, George, Red Dog, Sherry leaving Micky and Charlene behind. Hear more SIRENS, SCREAMS from the street. Micky can't take it, jumps up. 
 Just put him in the wagon. Police tackle Micky to the sidewalk, start beating, subduing him with their flashlights... Crack! Crack! 
 
 (SCREAMS OUT) They didn't fuckin' do anything! Get off my boys! .Micky raises his arm defending himself from the long black metal flashlights, head split open bleeding. 
 Mickyyyy! Nooooo! 
 (CCNTTNTTFN ) 
 (C'C)NTTNTTFD ) 
 LEAVE HIM ALONE! [swings at cops] Back the fuck up! 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (pulling fellow cops away, trying to keep the peace) Guys, come on, back up. Cops back up from Charlene and O'Keefe... Blood spilling into Micky's eyes, holds up his left hand, which Charlene looks at. 
 
 Separate cells, don't let' em work up some bullshit defense story. Alice runs up to Dicky as he's put into one police car, Micky into another; she drops the lobby card which is trampled on 'til it's no longer visible. 
 We gotta talk, it was self-defense, right, say it was self defense, ya come outside, ya seen 'em beatin' on me, I didn't do nuthin' -- 
 You didn't do nuthin? Look at my hand ya selfish prick. 
 
 (leaning back to Micky) I was doin' it for you! 
 What were you doin' for me? Officer pauses so Dicky can listen. 
 This? Do me a favah, don't do nuthin' for me. 
 (stung, eyes well) What ah ya gonna do without me? Micky stares as Officer pulls Dicky away, sad. 
 - I can't believe they let Micky go. What about me? 
 (CONTTNTTFD ) 
 What'd I do? They're aftah me. I'm fuckin' Dicky Ecklund. I'm gonna have to plead out, right, get like three yeahs. Could HBO help talk to 'em? What's gonna happen to my movie? I'll be out in a yeah or so, maybe less with good behaviah. We can finish it then, 
 - 
 Your part will just end with you bein' arrested. 
 (tears in his eyes) What about my comeback? I didn't do nuthin'. Who's gonna take care a Little Dicky and, what about Tommy? 
 
- 
 I'm quittin', Charlene, OK? I'm done fightin' I don't need it no more. 
 What?! Why? 
 Because it's sad you let them take it away from you, with all their stupid bullshit. 
 - What else could I do, Charlene? 
 (CUNTTNTTRT) ) 
 Hey! 
 (C'NNTTNTTRT)1 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (stands, hugs Micky hello) How's ya hand?! 
 ( 
 It's good, gettin' there. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Why don't ya come down to the gym if ya want? Ya fat fuck, look atcha. 
 (looks at people staring) Now I gotta worry about this movie tonight on HBO, everybody lookin' at me like I did somethin' wrong, ain't my fault he's on TV. 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE It's bettah for ya if ya don't see it, Micky, it's just gonna make ya feel bad. [turns to everyone] What are you lookin' at? He ain't gonna be on TV, it's his crazy brothah. People stare at them. 
 - .Dicky playing with his 4-year-old son, sitting across from Alice smoking a Lucky, three newspapers in her lap, room crowded with convicts, visitors, thick with smoke. 
 Everybody's talkin' about the movie, Dicky, it sounds. 
 (regretful, wary) I know. (shakes his head) They're lettin' everybody on the first two tiers watch it tonight. C'mon, hit daddy with a kunckle sandwich. Bang-bang. Right in the mouth. (takes Little Dicky's hand, hits own mouth) C'mon, a knuckle sandwich! .Little Dicky hits Dicky in the mouth again. . .And Dicky pops out his fake teeth. Little Dicky cracks up laughing. 
 (CENTTNTTF.T)) 
 DICKY (CONT'D) (laughing with his son) - My teef, my teef, Dicky, you knocked out my teef! 
 They're sayin' it makes you an' the city look bad. What'd they make ya do? 
 (pops his teeth back) It wasn't supposed to work out this way. Say we did it for the kids, ma. 
 What kids, Dicky? 
 About drugs, and all that. Is Micky gonna watch it? You ask 'im why he don't come to see me? All I do in here is think about comin' back and workin' with Micky, that's what keeps me goin'. I want a second chance to do it right for him and win a title. Will ya tell him that for me? They hear a guard, "C'mon, five minutes Dicky, wrap it up." Little Dicky reaches out and gently cups his father's nose.. 
 1 Lookin' forward to seein' your HBO movie tonight. 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Jimmy, hey, sorry to rush, but I wanted to make sure Kasie's not watchin' HBO, okay? 
 LAURIE'S HUSBAND 
 (INTO PHONE) OK, Mick, I got it -- 
 
 (GRABS PHONE) I want her to see it! Let her see who her uncle is! Who you ah! 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Who I am? What are you talkin' about? Turn it off, Laurie, turn it off. Laurie up, joins Kasie, Jimmy as she watches eyes wide ...ON TV, Dicky talking to camera, missing rotting teeth, hollowed- out eyes, skeleton-like arms, fucked-up high, tries to spark a lighter, "Whoa,-- there's Richard Pryah for ya." 
 (C 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Collect call from Dicky. He hears a busy signal, operator say, "Sorry, that line is busy, sir." Dicky looks back up at one of the TVs, Alice and Little Dicky sitting in the living room watching a tape of 24- year-old Dicky fighting Sugar Ray Leonard on HBO. He hangs up the phone and walks out of the day room... 
 2 (stands, surprised) Dicky!? What're you doin' here? 
 (' 
 I gotta go home, Harry. I gotta tell Dicky it's gonna be okay, he don't gotta cry. 
 2 (steps out, puts a hand on 
 DICKY'S SHOULDER) Get back upstairs before I write ya up. 
 - He don't gotta cry no more. 
 2 I don't know what you're talking about, Dicky, but you can't be here. You gotta go back up. Dicky looks at Corrections Officer 2, turns and heads back. 
 (wiping away her tears 
) No, sweetheaht, go back upstairs, you can't watch this. [into phone] Micky, can you believe what they're doin' to us? 
 - .Micky on the phone, upset, watching HBO. 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Ma, I know, but he did it to himself. 
 (CNNTTNTTFD ) 
 
 (ON PHONE) What was he thinkin! They set him up! 
 
 (ON PHONE) Maybe they got the drugs far 'im an' the movie -- 
 (staring at Charlene) It's very sad, ma, I gotta call ya back. He hangs up. He and Charlene stare at each other, taking it in, emotional, awkward. She laughs a little through tears. - .they hug. Micky crying into her shoulder and hair, Charlene holding onto him, she backs him into his BEDROOM, the fall to the bed, kissing. FADE OUT - 
 (pauses on stairs) I wanna meet that guy George told you about. [pause] The one with the cab company. Charlene nods, Micky disappears down the stairs; she runs to the edge of the balcony, looks down, waits, in a moment Micky's back appears from under the porch, walking away. She watches him go. 
 (CC)NTTNTTFN ) 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Nobody keeps tryin' like this kid, I swear to God someone up there's watchin' over him, he's far from done. He'll take five punches to land one, that's how he fights, that's who he is. Micky this is Sal LoNano. Micky shakes Sal LoNano's hand. 
 You own a cab company, you're a good businessman, right? 
 
 (NODS) I already made some calls. Spoke to Bobby Tags and he says we can get a small fight, somethin' local to staht back with. 
 MICKY O'KEEFE Get ya confidence back. 
 Right, go from there. [claps his hands together in an idiosyncratic 
] 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE - Micky, I know ya dad wants this guy to manage ya, and I'll train ya on one condition. 
 No crazy-time nonsense. 
 (RNNTTNTTFN ) 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE No Dicky, no Alice. If they come back, I'm gone, Mick. I can't deal with the bullshit, no offense Georgie. 
 None taken, I'm the one who's gonna get his balls cut off anyway. 
 You traitor motherfucker! 
 Those pans hurt, you crazy bitch! I hadda help Micky! 
 With that scumbag LoNano?! Now I gotta save Micky! 
 HOUSE - DAY Alice and most of the sisters piling into Alice's car. 
 Holy shit. Your mothah's here with your sistahs. 
 Don't answah the door. 
 I'm not hidin' from your crazy fuckin' family, Micky! 
 Hi. 
 Well, well, well, look at this. 
 Look at what? 
 You can't hide from us, Micky. 
 He's not hiding. 
 I wasn't talkin' to you, I was talkin' to my son. What're you doin' Micky? 
 I'm not hidin' from nobody - 
 Ya not helpin' yaself with ya fathah's scumbag friend, and ya can't turn ya back on Dicky, all he evah wanted was for you to be World Champ. 
 Micky's a grown man, he can make his own decisions. 
 Keep ya mouth shut. I'm his muthah. You need Dicky, no one trains you like him, ya can't do it without 
 'IM - 
 
 (LAUGHS) What else can he do, Dicky's in prison! 
 (CNNTTNTTFF ) 
 Why ya always lookin' out for him, Ma? Wes? Why's it always Dicky, Dicky, Dicky - 
 I'm lookin' out for YOU. My boys are everything to me. I had nine children, I loved all a you the same. 
 You got a funny way a showin' it -- 
 Yeah, a funny way, Ma, Dicky's a great trainah, I love him to death, but do ya evah think all the othah damage he's done? 
 Lettin' him get beat up, get his hand broken. 
 (lunges at Charlene) Are you crazy, Micky's my baby! Micky grabs her before she gets to Charlene. 
 Don't ever lay a hand on Charlene. 
 TAR (CINDY) Skank. 
 PORK (CATHY) She's a fuckin' bah skank! 
 Don't call me skank, I'll rip that hair right outta ya fuckin' head! Red Dog lunges at Charlene and takes poke at her; Charlene grabs Red Dog's face and shoves her.. .then backhands Beaver, who's grabbing her hair, sloppy like a bar fight. 
 (lets go of his mother, breaking up the fight) HEY! HEY! For the love a Christ! 
 (CNNTTNTTFF ' 
 (quiet, crying) 
 -- They look at each other, tearful, heartbreaking. Red Dog and Beaver put their arms around her and walk her to the car. 
 (crying as they walk) What's happening? My God, what is happening to everyone? I don't undahstand it. George pulls up in roofing truck, starts to get out, sees Alice and sisters, looks scared, pulls out. 
 TITLE: Ward vs. Castillo - Sheraton Inn Lowell - August 19, 1994. Micky getting undressed, getting ready for the fight. Charlene sitting on the bed watching him. CLOSE ON: Micky stands till in the mirror, muttering under his breath as he goes over combinations and scenarios in his head. 
 (shakes his head, on edge) I do not spell my name with a friggin' "E." 
 I know you know what I'm doin'. I'm sure Alice, everybody else, told you, I wanted to tell you to your face, myself. I got new management, I'm workin' with Mickey O'Keefe, and it's going good. 
 Yeah, sure, they got ya fighin' Alfonso Sanchez. 
 
 (PROUD) On HBO. 
 (makes a face) Yeah, HBO's all invested in the Mexican, Micky, wake up, they don't care if you get killed. Toma did it. He's usin' ya like a steppin'- stone for Sanchez. 
 (RNNTTNTTPN ) 
 Of course, how could I stand a chance without the Great Dicky Ecklund in my corner? You didn't care if I got killed with Mungin, now all of a sudden, you're worried Sanchez is gonna hurt me, why? Cuz you're stuck here and you can't be center of attention no more. 
 I seen that Mexican fight, Micky! He hits very hard! 15 knockouts! Undefeated! Are you crazy? That idiot LoNano went right for it! He's usin' you to steal money! 
 
 What's ya plan, Mick? How ya gonna fight Sanchez? 
 I ain't here to talk about that! 
 Oh yeah, you are. 
 Watch the fight, you'll see the plan. 
 They won't let us watch the fight cuz it's 'violent'! They let us watch the stupid documentary on crack but not my own brothah fightin'! [people look at them]. Are ya scared? Are ya embarraassed cuz ya don't even have a plan? Just tell me. 
 Ya gonna shit on it no mattah what I say! 
 ( C'.ONTTNTTFT)' 
 I won't shit on it. Come on, just tell me. 
 (thinks, then, grudgingly) Go toe to toe; ovahhand right in the middle rounds. He's weak against the overhand right. 
 
 (EYES WIDE) Who came up with that? Fatty O'Keefe? 
 Fuck you. I'm gonna go. (Stands] 
 Ya gotta run against this guy! Move, let 'im punch himself out 
 (C''ONTTNTTF:F ) 
 DICKY (CONT'D) Take 'im to the body, Micky! Get inside. Switch stances like ya workin' his right, hit 'im on the left. Be careful, don't switch outside. 
 (starting to go) You're not me. You can't be me. You had a hard enough time being you when you had your chance. I'll fight Sanchez the way I fight. Walks out. 
 (stands and shouts) I'm TALKIN' about the way you fight, you moron! You know I'm right! As Micky opens the door his face registers Dicky's words. 
 (RNNTTNTTFD' 
 (stands up, shouting) Come on Micky! Stop dickin' around! 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (kneels in front of Micky) Breathe, Mick, breathe. Catch this sunovabitch with an ovah hand right, ya hear me? He won't see it comin'. 
 (nods, spits out water) He hits like bricks. When he misses it hurts. 
 
 (ON PHONE) He's fightin' scared, Dicky. Runnin', not hittin' back, O'Keefe looks mad. He's gonna get hurt - 
 
 (ON PHONE) No, Ma, it's okay, it's okay, he's doin' what I told' im. He's doin' it! INTERCUT as necessary: ON TV, Micky switches stances outside...Sanchez counters with a booming left uppercut ...Bam! Micky drops to one knee! 
 
 (ON PHONE) Oh Jesus! 
 
 (ON PHONE) What happened?! 
 
 (ON PHONE) Knocked down with an uppah cut changin' stances outside! 
 (on phone, screaming) I told 'im inside, c'mon, Micky! 
 (eyes wide, blood 
 (RNNTTNTTFF ) 
 
 (ON PHONE) They're sayin' they should stop the fight, they never seen such an embarrassin' performance, oh it's awful, Dick. 
 (eyes wide, starting to get nervous, on phone) He's gotta go inside, Ma, he's gotta go inside when the time's right. He's gotta - 
 (shouts at Micky) Why you running around so much?! Don't run around no more 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (yells back at Sal) Shut the fuck up, Sal! 
 You're blowin' it! .Mickey O'Keefe pours water into Micky's mouth. Referee Mitch Halpern comes over to the corner. 
 (CONTTNTTRT) 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE He's good! He's good! 
 (looks up at Micky from 
) They're gonna stop the fight! 
 (leans out ropes, angry)) Don't stop the fight,-- I got it. 
 
 (SHOUTS) THEN LET'S GO, BABY! Let's GO! Get ya frickin' punches off! 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE (through the ropes) Will ya siddown, I got it! I know what I'm doin', Jesus -- (wipes Vaseline over 
 MICKY'S FACE) I don't know what's happenin' out there, maybe you wanna fuckin' tell me, cuz we're losin' all six rounds. Is that what ya want? You want me to stop it? I'm gonna stop this fight, Micky. I sweah to Christ, I'll stop it. I don't know what ya doin' but ya bettah do it soon. 
 (tense teasrs, holds phone, watches TV) Round 7. Sanchez'll try to finish 'im right now. (tearing, wipes 
) 
 
 (SAD) Aw, come on, Micky. 
 (jumping up & down) 
 (shocked, eyes wide) 
 
 Micky, Mike Toma just told me something very interesting. Micky, Charlene look at Sal, unsure. 
 Remember Alice told ya Mike Toma was usin' ya like a steppin stone for Sanchez and I said she was fulla shit? Turns out she was right. Toma said Sanchez had a title shot if he won tonight. Micky and Charlene look unsure as they take this i 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE Holy Christ, that's beautiful. 
 Why? Why is the beautiful? 
 Now it's Micky's shot. Shea Neary in London for the title. Charlene kisses Micky. Everybody slapping Micky on the back, hugging him, jumping up & down around him, celebrating him, a world title shot. Micky smiling in the middle of the celebration, then, distracted, something's missing. 
 (PARKED) - DAY .Dicky sees his mother's Lincoln parked at a security gate, starts to run. Alice gets out of her car, Little Dicky, now 6-years-old, jumping out the other side. 
 (gives Dicky a big hug) Oh Dicky, thank Gahd, everythin's gonna be OK again. 
 (hugging his mother) Easy, Ma, my back's killin' me. 
 Thank god you're out! Charlene and that LoNano charactah are robbin' 'im blind, Sal's sayin' ain't no money for spahhin' pahtnahs! 
 I'll make it right with Micky, I'll apologize, it'll all be okay. 
 (looks at Dicky like he's 
) What are you talkin' about? You're Dicky Ecklund. You got nuthin' to apologize for. 
 (RNNTTNTTFD ) 
 (looks around, shouts) Quackah! .Micky stops punching, smiles when he sees his brother, sweat dripping... and jumps out of the ring, leaving Mickey O'Keefe behind holding the pads... Charlene, George, Sal, Art, Ray, other fighters in the gym look at Dicky, some call out, "Dicky!" "Dickyee!" "Dicky!" WHILE MICKY AND ALICE HAVE AWKWARD EYE CONTACT; ALSO CHARLENE AND ALICE, then Micky and Charlene. 
 -- Dicky Donuts lookit ya! They let ya keep the new teeth! 
 (nods, smiles) Hey, why ain't Micky spahhin'!? Georgie, what're you doin' outta the house? Charlene just shakes her head at Dicky. Micky kisses his mother hello. 
 (puts a short beefy arm around Dicky's neck) Dicky, meet my friend Sal LoNano. Dicky glances warily at Sal for brief eye contact. 
 (emotional, defended) Hey. (turns to Ray Ramalho) Ra Ray! (high fives Ray) O'Keefe stares, fuming, looks to Micky, who glances nervously, but says nothing. 
 I wanna make an amend to everyone here, I know I done a lot of stupid things, and I wanna say I'm sorry, and that's ovah. They all look at him. 
 I'm very grateful to be back in this gym with you all. I gotta lotta time to make up for, and I wanna make the best of it. 
 (CNNTTNTTFT)' 
 DICKY (CONT'D) You deserve the best, Micky, you have a chance to go all the way and I'm ready to be there for ya. Charlene and O'Keefe look upset. Awkward, everyone looking at Dicky who nods, pleased, and walks into the locker room. O'Keefe and Charlene stare intensely at Micky, who looks somber. 
 (RNNTTNT7FT)1 
 
 You look good, your eyes are clear. 
 I look good, right? Alice said lock up mighta been the best thing to happen to me. I got clean. I got clear up here (taps his head). 
 That's beautiful, Dick. There's somethin' we gotta talk about. 
 Hold on, I wanted to say' I been waitin' for this day, Micky, I been waitin' the whole time I was away. It kept me goin', it kept me alive, the idea of us workin' togethah again. Micky looks at him, nods. It's breaking his heart. 
 I made a promise to them that I wouldn't work with you again. Dicky takes this in. Stunned. 
 (CNNTTNTTFF' 
 Ever? 
 I had to. After everything that happened. I'm sorry. Dicky is hurt, stunned. 
 The whole time I was away -- 
 I'm glad you're back, I'm glad you're doing good, I don't know what else to say. 
 (RNNTTNTTFT)' 
 What happened? 
 He says I can't work with him. 
 That's not right. [Dicky starts to leave] He never woulda won Sanchez without me! 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE That's fuckin' bullshit! Take that back! 
 Don't talk to my mother my mother like that. 
 Why don't you ask Micky? 
 MICKEY O'KEEFE They gotta go. If we're gonna train. 
 They have to go, Micky. 
 Why don't you ask Micky if he woulda won Sanchez without Dicky? Ask him. They all look at Micky. He is torn up over this as he considers it before he speaks and they all watch, tense. 
 I wouldn'ta won Sanchez without Dicky. 
 How can you say that to O'Keefe? 
 Because it's true. I went in with our plan and it wasn't working, I switched to what I learned with Dicky. Micky looks at O'Keefe, who is hurt. 
 (CNNTTNTT' N 
 MICKY (CONT'D) I wouldn'ta won it without you, either, O'Keefe, you know that. 
 You got the focus and confidence from O'Keefe and Sal and your father and me! 
 You were lucky to win that fight, Dicky saved him! 
 We saved him! Dickya junkbag! 
 (C ) 
 Fuck you, Charlene, I'm 8 months sober. 
 I'm sure you'll need somethin' for your back now that you're out. 
 O'Keefe's in the same boat I am, one day at a time, why's it all right for him to be here, but not me? I'm blood. 
 I'm the one fighting, not you, not you, and not YOU. I know what I need. 
 
 (GETS SHRILL) And you need Dicky? Micky roils as he makes this decision. 
 I want Dicky back. And I want you, Charlene, and I want O'Keefe, and my family. 
 You can't do that to us. 
 You sound like them now. 
 Maybe you're just like them and that's where you belong. She looks at him, turns and walks out of the gym, followed by O'Keefe, who looks sadly back at Micky. 
 Everything happens for a reason, this could be for the best, honey. Micky watches Dicky get geared up with gloves, headgear, mouth guard by Art Ramalho. ANOTHER BOXER gears up Micky. 
 (CNNTTNTTFN ) 
 Dicky Ecklund, the pride a Lowell! This rankles Micky as he and Dicky square off. 
 I was trainin' in jail, so I'm ready. The two brothers spar, falling right back into it as Alice, George, others watch. Dicky moving around the ring... He snaps Micky's head with a combination. Micky starts banging him with body shots...Bam! Bam! Bam!...Dicky tries to make Micky miss. Micky grabs him tying him up.. .Dicky pushes Micky away, ducks, jabs.. .Micky traps Dicky's left under his elbow/arm, pulling it. . .Turning Dicky so his back is exposed, drilling him in the kidney. Dicky goes down on one knee in pain... And Micky comes over the top with a straight right off the back of Dicky's head.. .Dicky SLAMS down hard! Face hitting canvas, blood running from his nose into his mouth... 
 (CONTTNTTFD ) 
 (CRIES) Daddy, Daddy! (CUNTTNTTF.n' 
 (holds Little Dicky) Alice, take him home. [Little Alice leaves with Little Dicky]. What're you doin', Micky? What's the matter with you! 
 Can this be my fight, for once, Alice, huh, just once, maybe just this one time, not for Dicky? I know you think he's comin' back, he's 40 years old and doesn't have a tooth in his head that's his own-- 
 
 Let your brother talk. 
 I'm Shea Neary, let's go, I'm Shea Neary, how ya gonna work me? 
 Shut up! 
 Shea Neary -- 
 Shut up! Dicky, hurt, stops. 
 I'm the one who has this fight, this is my chance for a title, and I won't get another one after this. Am I being selfish? Am I saying Micky, Micky, Micky? I'm sorry, I thought I was fighting for a championship. He throws his gear off and starts to go when she runs to him, embraces him. 
 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't know. 
 (CONTTNTTRN ) 
 ALICE (CONT'D) I didn't know what I was doing, I don't know why I did what I did, I did the best I could, I'll do better, I don't want to hurt you, Micky, I love you so much. As she holds him, Micky looks frustrated, but tears up in spite of himself and nods. 
 (trying to keep up with 
) Come on back-- 
 No, I gotta take care a something. 
 Micky wants you, I want you. 
 Do ya, Georgie? 
 (CONTTNTTFD' 
 We gotta do this for Micky, come on. You're my son, too, Dick. Come on. 
 You're my poppa, George. 
 I gotta take care a something. He takes off, leaving George behind. 
 
 (SHOUTS) I know what that means, don't do it, Dick. Come back. But Dicky keeps going. George watches, sad. 
 (CNNTTNTTFT)1 
 (CONTTNTTFD ) 
 
 (INTO INTERCOM) Charlene, it's Dicky. 
 Get off my porch, you piece of shit. Dicky presses the buzzer and won't stop. 
 (over the buzzer) You fuckin' asshole! 
 I know you can't fuckin' stand me. 
 Really? What makes ya say that? 
 I got no use for you eithah, but my bruthah loves ya and ya can't walk away 'cause a me. He don't deserve that. If you want me to quit, I'll quit. 
 You're full a shit. 
 (CNNTTNTT D' 
 Sweah to God, I'll quit if it makes you go back. Micky's got a chance to do somethin' I nevah did - 
 
 Fuck you, Charlene. I came here to make things right - 
 OK, let's make things right, numbah one: Ya didn't knock down Sugah Ray Leonahd, he tripped. 
 
 (PAUSES) I was in the fuckin' ring with 'im, Chalene, don't you think I know what happened? But I went ten rounds with Sugar Ray Leonard, what the fuck have you evah done? Is your life so great? She doesn't say anything. 
 Your eyes are red, you're hung ovah, don't tell me you're not. Ya life sucks. 
 Maybe, the part without Micky sucks. Maybe I never did anything special like you, but I love Micky and I want him to have his chance. 
 Then leave me alone. He needs me, you heard him, and I know he needs you, so let's spare him the bullshit from either one of us. She looks at him. Nods grudgingly. 
 (CC)NTTNTTFF ) 
 OK. I'll see ya in Micky's corner, otherwise go fuck yourself. Dicky nods, walks off the porch. 
 
 We worked it out fah you. Ask her. It's all together. Micky looks up and sees Charlene standing in the door. She nods. He looks at Dicky. 
 Good. Get O'Keefe back, too. 
 Micky nods, heads toward Charlene. 
 - hey, Mick, you think I knocked down Sugah Ray Leonahd? Micky pauses, looks at his brother, says nothing. 
 You went ten rounds, and he never hurt you. You were my hero. 
 (walking away, back 
 (CNNTTNTTFF ' 
 (calls after him) Do you want a ride home? 
 (shakes his head, limps 
 ENGLAND - NIGHT TITLE: Neary vs. Ward, WBU Light Welterweight Title Weigh-In - Hilton London Olympia Hotel, London. Dicky, Alice, Charlene, George, Sal, O'Keefe bicker as Micky stands on edge of press conference. 
 I should be the one standin' there next to him, I'm his trainah, his brothah and my mothah-- 
 Been there from the staht -- 
 Me and O'Keefe got him through 
 -- 
 HEY. Nobody goes on stage. Just me and the manager, that's how it's done by the professionals. I don't wanna hear anothah word. Micky & Dicky standing together watching SHEA "SHAMROCK EXPRESS" NEARY, 30, 5'8", 140 lbs, hard looking, flat nose, short-cropped hair, square jaw, shirt, pants off, underwear only, being weighed-in by British Boxing Commissioners, WBU officials. Neary's manager, JOHN HYLAND, 41, bald, glasses, by his side, yapping at reporters, microphones, cameras. 
 (thick Liverpool accent) - Shea's been sleepin' on a concrete floor in an empty apahtment, livin' by 'imself away from 'is family. 
 (CNNTTNTTFN ) 
 Nah, I ain't gonna sleep on no floor. I like my bed an' my girlfriend too much - He waves at Charlene in the crowd. Reporters laugh. Neary glares at Micky and steps off the scale. Micky sees Alice squeezed way in the back of the room with George, both all dressed up, new clothes, hair done up. 
 
 (SHOUTS OUT) Hey, Ma, Dad, come on up here! Alice and George start heading toward the front of the room, Alice looking at all the cameras, smiling, she's back in the spotlight. She's the belle of the ball. 
 (to the reporters) My muthah used to manage both of us, me and Dicky both. Neithah of us would be here if it weren't for her, right? 
 No shit, Mick, she's our muthah - Reporters laugh, shout, "How long were you their manager for, Mrs. Ward?" 
 (smiles at all the cameras.. .her one well- 
) I been managin' both of 'em my whole life, honey. Reporters laugh. Micky & Dicky laugh. Micky sees Charlene shake her head and smile despite herself. 
 (Liverpool accent, snaps) Why the hell's ya mothah up here, this ain't no place for old ladies. 
 (C Y)NTTNTTT?T) ) 
 
 (SHRUGS) - You can have the whole country behind ya, but it's only gonna be me and him in the ring, right? 
 (turns to Sal, on edge) Where's his song, Sal? You gotta be good for somethin'. I dunno why you gotta be in the cornah anyways - 
 Make sure you don't do somethin' stupid. .Whitesnake's "Here I Go Again" begins playing over the sound system... 
 Why dontchya try singin', Sal, maybe you can do that - 
 (nods, singing the song quietly to himself) "Now I don't know where I'm goin' But I sure know where I been." 
 (CC)NTTNTTRT)' 
 (LEEDS ACCENT) Come out when ya hear the bell, and don't piss about. Shake hands, both of ya. .Micky reaches out to touch gloves with Neary...Neary will not touch gloves, instead, to Micky's surprise, he pushes his forehead into Micky's. Ref separates them, Micky again reaches to touch gloves but Neary will not. 
 (walks to Dicky in his 
) - You see that? I'm gonna kick his ass. 
 Good. Go right at him, staht early for once! 
 (CC)NTTNTTFM 
 
 (CNNTTNT7FD ) 
 (screaming at Sal) Give him the stool! Where's the stool! 
 Shut up! Get outta here! 
 He needs to sit! 
 
 (CNNTTNTTRT)) 
 (leans close into his brother before he goes, 
) Go aftah 'im so he don't think ya hurt, Mick, stay off the fuckin' ropes! .Dicky heads out of the ring... crosses himself, kisses his fingers and climbs out through the ropes, his brother's blood all over him. 
 Go aftah 'im! Get off the ropes! Micky throws a right, going right after Neary. Neary caught off-guard, steps back, letting Micky off the ropes. Micky keeps throwing, legs still unsteady. Neary flicks out a jab, keeping his distace. Foreman, "I think Neary's making a big, big mistake. He's allowing Micky to recover. He knows Micky's a veteran who's been hurt before, knows what to do when he's hurt. But he doesn't know if he's still hurt or not." .Micky waking back up, getting his legs back under him, hitting Neary with a left to the body--Left uppercut ...Neary answers, landing a left hook to Micky's chin--Left hook--Left hook. 
 (RNNTTNTTRD ) 
 (inches from his face, just the two of them) Don't take unnecessary punishment, you're not a punchin' bag, don't let him abuse you! You hear me? We been waitin' our whole lives for this! It's all been leading up to right now, Micky! This is your time, Micky! I blew it, but you don't have to. Take all ya emotion and pain from me all we done and use it out there right now. Don't let 'em take it away from you, Micky! Do you hear me? Micky looks at his brother, nods, turns spits out blood and water. Dicky TAKES MICKY'S NECK IN HIS HANDS AS HE PUTS HIS 
 (CONTTNTTFD ) 
 (looks down and hugs his brother's head between his gloves, laughing) Dickyeeee! 
 (holding Micky up off the ground, looks up at him.. .tears in his eyes) Ohmygahd, Micky, you're the world champion! You're champion a the whole world! .Dicky holding his brother up in his arms...Micky raises his fists above his head... the two brothers together in the middle of the crowded ring... FREEZE FRAME ON MICKY IN THE AIR HELD ALOFT BY Dicky. Credits start. Then TEXT: 'Micky Ward went on to three epic fights with Arturo Gatti. bringing Micky his first seven-figure paydays. He retired in 2003." UNFREEZE: Dicky turns as he holds Micky and now we see Dicky's face, scrunched against Micky's hip as he holds him aloft. FREEZE FRAME ON Dicky: "Dicky lives with Alice and Little Dicky a few blocks away from Micky, and trains fighters in Lowell. Free from crack, he battles his addiction every day.' UNFREEZE: Alice steps into the ring, BEAMING, followed by George. 
 
