 "GARDEN CITY" 
 (at office door) Expectin' someone? 
 (after a second's pause) I guess not. Where's the stagecoach office? 
 (pointing) Back of the depot. 
 (to horse) Consarn you, Blossom -- lookit that -- jus' lookit what you done -- (some more pantomime) I'm tellin' you, Blossom that -- (indicating broken bottle) -- makes you the most aggravatin' female as ever I had a despise fer -- I've got a good notion to pizen you -- an' what's more -- 
 (to Blossom) Heh-heh -- fooled you, didn't I? -- (chuckles) Fooled myself, too. 
 
 (to Rocklin) Howdy. 
 (indicating stage) That the stage for Santa Inez? 
 (nods) Leaving any minute. 
 Santa Inez -- seventeen-fifty -- (returning the balance) Name? 
 Rocklin. 
 Mind if I ride alongside the driver? 
 (over his specs) It's all right with me -- if it's all right with Dave -- He's mad -- His last trip -- Had a row with Harolday, the boss -- Old-timer, Dave -- an' a grumpy old cuss. 
 (soberly) I like grumpy old cusses -- Hope to live long enough to be one. 
 (puzzled) Yeah? 
 Here's your mail, Dave -- 
 (as he steps up to the seat) -- and a passenger. 
 Mind if I ride up here? 
 Where's them wimmen? 
 Up at the hotel. 
 (yanking mail sack from Agent) Why ain't they here? -- This is the stage depot, ain't it -- ? (heaves sack into boot) Ain't it? 
 You can pick 'em up there -- it's only up the street -- 
 On'y up the street -- an' they cain't walk it -- What's the matter -- don't Easterners have laigs like other folks? 
 (so Dave won't hear) Hold tight when you git in the mountains, mister -- When he gits riled you can hear the passengers prayin' for miles. 
 (to handyman) Whar's them wimmen? -- They waitin' for you to carry 'em out? 
 (as he comes to Dave) Dave -- Dave -- tell Arly Harolday her saddle ain't ready yet, will ya? 
 (getting to the ground) I ain't tellin' that crazy female nothin' -- Last time I seen her she threatened to rip the hide off'n me and bat me dizzy with it. 
 (looks up to Rocklin) Mister -- will you tell the Agent at Santa Inez to tell Miss Harolday her saddle ain't ready yet? 
 (nods) I'll say that. 
 (as group comes through door) By next year, madam, we expect to have a bathtub on each floor. 
 Now don't drop it -- 
 At your age you'd best not be lifting things so heavy. 
 (grimaces) Mebbe you're young enough to hoist her up your own self. (tries to lift trunk again) 
 Clara! 
 (in low voice) Staring as though you'd never seen a man before. 
 Try to hold him down or he'll scare the women to death. 
 
 I never feel sorry for anything that happens to a woman. 
 Well, I hope you have a nice trip, ladies. 
 I hope we get there -- wouldn't surprise me if we didn't. 
 (mutters) Wait till I get you on the road, you old buzzard, you'll be surprised all right. 
 I wonder why a young feller who don't have to wants to come into this God danged country? 
 Say -- did you mean what you said back there about wimmen? 
 (grimly) Every word of it. 
 (chuckling) Then you're smarter than most. 
 Maybe I seen more of 'em than most. 
 (looking at him admiringly) Shouldn't be surprised. Shouldn't be a leetle bit surprised. (reflectively) All the same... 
 (unsmilingly) All the same -- what? 
 (offering bottle to Rocklin) Take a slug. 
 (holding up the bottle and squinting through it) Whiskey and wimmen -- ever think how much alike they are? Both fool you, but you never figger out how to do without 'em. 
 Take another. 
 Not just yet. 
 (unoffended) Well... (putting the bottle to his lips) Here's to her. 
 Who? 
 The next one that fools you. 
 (with relish) Mighty rough stretch along here. 
 Like me to speel you a while? 
 Nope. I've had a few snorts but that don't make no difference. Leas'ways, never has... (after a second's pause) Don't ever git wore out, and useless, like me. 
 Who're them as say you are? 
 Harolday, for one. Oh, I ain't belly- aching. Reckon he's entitled to his opinion. But him and me never did see eye to eye. 
 What's wrong? 
 It's constitootional, I reckon. Like that step-daughter of his is crazy -- he's too sane. Believes In law and order. 
 (grinning) What's wrong with law and order? 
 Depends on who's a-dishin' it out. Never was good at takin' orders meself. As for the law -- well, you'll soon find out what that means 'round these parts. 
 Driver? Driver, what's the matter? 
 Nothin'. Restin' hosses. Git out and stretch yore laigs if you want. 
 Resting horses? What for? I can see with my own eyes it's downhill. 
 You in such an all-fired hurry, lady? 
 Certainly, we are in a hurry. 
 (beaming) Well -- we'll hurry some. 
 (fiercely) Now what's the matter. Why are we stopping again? 
 (as Rocklin swings down) Buenas noches, senor. 
 Buenas noches, amigo. 
 (grinning at the friendly tone) Ha llegado anticipademente, senor. 
 Tuvimos suerte en haber llegado. 
 (gruffly) We stop here. 
 Why do we stop here? 
 If you wanta eat and stretch yore laigs. 
 Will you please stop referring to my legs! 
 You got some, ain't you? 
 (holding out his arms) Dave! 
 (letting out a yell and rushing to Zeke) Why, Zeke, you two-legged old coot! 
 Whar you been all these months? 
 Up in the hills workin' my way down the biggest hole you ever seed. 
 Good -- What's at the bottom of it? 
 Nothin'! 
 (roaring with laughter) What, again!! 
 Good evening, ladies. How about something to eat? 
 (with a dubious look toward the pair at the bar) Well -- if it won't take too long. 
 (leading the way toward the partition) This way, ladies. 
 Yep -- this is my last trip. 
 Why? 
 Old Harolday won't take back what he said. 
 What'd he say? 
 "You're fired." 
 There you are, folks. Dig in and help y'rselves. 
 Supper, Dave? 
 (noisily) I'm drinkin' mine. Set 'em up. 
 Auntie -- 
 With my dyspepsia? Do you want to kill me? 
 Aren't you going to have any supper? 
 Reckon so. 
 Young man, that driver's had all the liquor he can take. 
 Has he? 
 You know he has. You're not a complete fool, are you? 
 Frequently. 
 (to Clara, furiously) The rudeness of people in these parts is appalling! 
 Doin' yourself well these days, Stan. 
 A friend of mine was by an' sold me a quarter of beef. 
 (insinuatingly) The same friend as sold you that hide Bob, here, found stashed in your barn yesterday? 
 Hide -- What hide? 
 The one that might send you to the penitentiary. 
 (smugly) What did you do with it, Stan? 
 I never had no hide stashed -- 
 (harshly) I saw it yesterday under the hay. 
 Then it must still be there. 
 No it ain't -- we looked -- Where is it? 
 I tell ya -- 
 (who has been an interested witness) What is all this? 
 Afternoon ma'am. Miz Caldwell ain't it? 
 No -- Martin -- Miss Martin -- This is Miss Caldwell. 
 (to Clara) Glad to know you, miss -- Been expectin' you at Santa Inez. I'm Sheriff Jackson. Any relation of Red Caldwell's a friend of mine. 
 (that oily smile) You're sure gonna brighten things up considerable around the K.C. Ranch. 
 (indicating Stan) What's going on with him? 
 Just a little matter of the law. 
 (hastily) Rustlin'. 
 Wrestling? 
 Rustlin' -- cattle stealin'. 
 Oh -- a thief -- 
 (visibly worried) I tell ya I never -- 
 (quickly) Save it -- 
 (to Miss Martin) Matter of fact -- Bob, here, says that the hide he saw yesterday had the K.C. brand on it. 
 Oh -- hmmm -- well, what do you intend doing about it? 
 (looking at Stan) Law's pretty harsh 'round here on cattle thieves. 
 (being the kind man) Course, we don't want to make a mistake with an old-timer, but -- 
 How about the owner of that beef -- mightn't he have somethin' to say about it? 
 Meanin'? 
 Red Caldwell -- he's the owner of the K.C., ain't he? 
 (after a short chuckle) You're 'way behind the herd, mister -- Red Caldwell died three weeks ago. 
 (glaring at Clews) Was murdered, you mean. 
 That's right -- shot in the back -- not far from here. 
 (significantly to Stan) Maybe he was gettin' on to things about the cattle that's been missin' from the K.C. lately. 
 I tell ya I ain't never had any hide -- 
 (quickly) Well, you got beef -- 
 (meekly defiant) Yes -- an' I got a bill of sale fer it, too. 
 S'pose you let me see that bill of sale. 
 (starts for kitchen) It's right out here. 
 Like I said -- I wouldn't want to make a mistake with an ole-timer. 
 (chuckling and pointing to Miss Martin) See that one? (confidentially) She ain't got no laigs. 
 Hold your tongue. (to Zeke, who is gaping at her) And you -- stop staring as if we were monsters. 
 (to Rocklin) Where's Stan? We got to have another drink. 
 He's outside tryin' to explain away a hide. 
 Eh? 
 (indicating food) Seems we're eatin' stolen beef. 
 Somebody's loco. Stan might have given house-room to bit o' dead beef, but he'd never be fool enough to leave the hide lyin' around. (to Zeke) How 'bout it, Zeke? 
 That's the way it is, Dave. 
 (disgustedly) Oh -- it's you. 
 That's right -- your old pal Bob Clews. 
 (shoves Clews) Git away from me -- you two-timin' horse thief. 
 (grinning) Them's fightin' words, pardner. 
 (moving to Stan) Hey, Stan -- don't let 'em hang nothin' on you, you ain't done. They're just a couple of fourflushers -- the pair of 'em, everybody knows that. 
 Crazy drunk. 
 (wheels on Jackson) Mebbe I am drunk -- mebbe that's why I'm tellin' the truth -- I'm drunk an' I'll say what I think -- I'll say what I know. 
 So will -- I -- (goes out again) 
 Don't act up this ways, Dave -- They's women watchin'. 
 (attempting to throw them off) Git your hands off me -- 
 (to company in general) What he needs is a short lay-down. 
 (taking a step forward) I'll lend a hand. 
 (brushing past him) Me an' Bob'll look after him. We're his friends -- come on, Bob. (as they steer Dave through door) Careful now -- don't hurt him. 
 (quietly to Stan) How are things standin' now between you an' the law? (indicates direction Jackson went out) 
 (not wanting to talk about it particularly) All right, I reckon -- (looks at Rocklin; more confidently) I guess this bill of sale -- (indicates it in Vest pocket) -- kinda winded him. 
 Good thing you saved it. 
 (mystified) What are you doing? 
 Musta been dreamin' -- Thought I was sittin' on a pot of gold. 
 (wearily) There ain't no gold here. 
 (takes it) There ain't even a pot. 
 How is he? 
 Went to sleep soon's we laid him down. (pulling off hat again) Sorry to have a ruckus in front of you ladies. Dave's an ornery old cuss when he gets goin' -- No shape to drive on, I'm afraid. 
 (this is a fine kettle of fish) Hmmm -- 
 Don't worry, ma'am. Bob, here, 'll take you on in -- knows every inch of the road -- Don't you? 
 (grins) You bet. 
 I'm drivin'. 
 (finally speaks) But if anything was to happen to the ladies, I'd feel -- to blame. 
 Don't. 
 You ladies want he should drive? 
 I'll be more'n glad to accommodate you -- (smiles at Clara) 
 (resenting Clews' familiarity) He's going with us anyway -- he may as well drive. 
 Anything you say, ma'am. 
 (to boy) Did they do it? 
 (matters) His friends, eh? 
 What happened? 
 Bumped his head. 
 (skeptically) Where -- on Iron Mountain? 
 Where's the best chance of a cheap room? 
 (pointing) There's Cap's place across the Street -- the Sun-Up Saloon. 
 (with valise, indicates saddle) I'll pick that up later. 
 (to stableman) This isn't the hotel. 
 No'm, lady. Hotel's up the street a piece. 
 Are we expected to carry our bags at this time of night? 
 (to Rocklin) Want to drive 'em on up? 
 (flatly) Nope. (offering a shoulder to Dave) Here -- catch aholt. 
 Hey Doc! 
 CAP'S VOICE Customer -- 
 (to Haynes) Take my hand, Sammy. 
 What happened? 
 Bumped his head. 
 (dryly) I see. (examining the head) Looks like he's going to need a couple or so stitches. (to Cap) Better get him upstairs. 
 (nodding) Okay. You can book me a room, too. 
 (muttering) No laigs. 
 He'll be all right in the morning. 
 How about a snort? 
 Don't mind if I do. 
 (with a grin) Will he make it? 
 Sure he'll make it. Can't kill off a salty old hairpin like Dave that easy. 
 You're right. Reckon Saint Peter must be gitten' mighty tired of dustin' off that doormat for him. (to Rocklin) By the way, how did you say it happened? 
 (stolidly) I didn't. 
 (with a slight nod of approval) That's right; you didn't. (casually) Reason I ask is, a couple fellers was in saying how Dave was kickin' up a ruckus up at Stan's place. (to Doc Riding) Sheriff Jackson it was and one of the Clewses. 
 (with a look of distaste) Oh! 
 Tough customers, the Clewses. 
 Yeah -- don't pay to start something with 'em you don't intend to finish. 
 (to Doc Riding before Rocklin can answer) By the way, Doc, they tell me George'll be out again. (to Rocklin, with the same casual air) That's Bob Clews' brother. Jest done a stretch in pen 'tentiary for horse stealin'. 
 They string 'em up for that where I come from. 
 (muttering into his drink) Pity they didn't string him up while they wore about it. 
 That's what Arly Harolday was sayin' only this mornin'. (to Rocklin) You ain't met our Arly yet, I reckon? 
 He will, if he stays here long enough. (chuckles) 
 Hell-fire in skirts. 
 (raises his glass; grinning) Well, here's now. 
 What did I tell you? They gotta be big to beat me! 
 Clint Harolday's in luck tonight. 
 They're certainly running for him. About time, too. He's taken a beating this last week would shake a better man. 
 Include me out. 
 Aw -- come on. Can't you take it? 
 Not that sort o' luck, I can't. Besides, I on'y came in to oblige. 
 (turning to bar and shouting) Come on, Doc. I still got to take something from you. 
 (shaking his head) No more tonight, son. I've a full day ahead. 
 How about you, sir? Care to sit In? I'm warnin' you, though -- our young friend here has been holding phenomenal cards. 
 (with a cocky grin) Have a heart, Judge. This ain't no two-bit saddle-tramp's game. This is for real money. 
 Fine! Oh -- this is Pap Fossler; Shorty Davis; Ab Jenkins; Mr. Harolday, and my name's Garvey -- Judge Garvey. I didn't get your name. 
 I didn't give it. (to Pap, who is holding the cards) Deal. 
 Raise you twenty. 
 (quietly) Table stakes, Clint. 
 Not if he wants to dig. 
 (folding) No place for me. 
 Cards? 
 One. 
 (eagerly) One for me. 
 Don't you know that Queen is dead? 
 I can take it if I want it. 
 Sure -- if you want -- but you'll have to beat my hand with four cards. 
 (hotly) I'm playing these, mister! 
 (shaking his head) I'm not settin' in. 
 (smoothly) Why don't you split the pot? 
 I'm not splitting -- I'm betting! 
 Are you calling? 
 (calmly) No. 
 I'm raising. 
 Dig. 
 (to other players) Let me have some money 
 (speaking for all) You're in deep enough, Clint. 
 (disgusted, to Rocklin) I've called for all I've got. (spreads out his cards) Full house. 
 No good. (spreads his hand) Kings up. Your third queen is dead. 
 (screaming) You -- mister -- get away from that table. And get out of here. Maybe from now on you'll know a full house beats two pairs -- four-flusher! 
 No man can run a bluff on me. 
 (finally) He wasn't armed. 
 I don't like to tell men how to play cards unless I'm settin' in -- but I mebbe ought to have spoken up. (directly to Clint) That Queen was dead, Clint -- and you know it. 
 (arrogantly) When anybody plays poker with me, they play my game or not at all. 
 You can't just go makin' your own rules, Clint -- (starts for the bar -- stops and turns) -- an' if I was you I'd hightail outa here before he comes back. 
 (jolted) Comes back? 
 (wearily) He's the kind. 
 (with deadly calm) I've come for my money. 
 (nervously pleasant) It's all yours, mister -- Cap, there -- Cap is an old gambler -- he says you were right all the time. 
 By the way, Judge -- the name is Rocklin. 
 SINGER'S VOICE She was only a bird in a gilded cage... (etc.) 
 How you feelin'? 
 After that singin'? -- Thirsty. (pulls on his boot) 
 How's your head? 
 (evidently not aware of what happened) Oh -- a mite hungover -- but I'll feel better once I git downstairs. 
 I knocked, but guess you didn't hear me. 
 (closing door to Dave's room) What do you want? 
 (grinning) Looks like you stirred things up around here last night, stranger. 
 That all you came to say? 
 No. I got a message for you. (getting no response) From Old Man Harolday. Wants to see you out front. 
 What about? 
 Maybe he wants to thank you for teaching that pup of his a lesson. 
 (after a second) I'll be down. 
 What's goin' on here? 
 Arly Harolday's on the warpath. 
 Here he comes. Watch the fun. This should be good. Etc. 
 (coldly) Yes. 
 (quietly) Are you crazy? Or just ignorant? 
 Whiskey! 
 What happened? 
 I... 
 Boy, oh boy, was that a near thing! She'd just as soon have hit you as missed. You don't know how lucky you were, son. 
 Don't I? (indicating whiskey with a sickly grin) Why d'you think I need this? 
 Funniest sight I ever seen. 
 (moaning) You broke it! You broke it! 
 Try another trick like that on me and it'll be worse. 
 I never played you no trick. You broke my wrist. 
 
 (gurgling with delight) Oh boy -- has somebody come to town! 
 (to Cap) Where'll I find Judge Garvey? 
 He rooms behind his office down the street. Don't usually pull up the blinds till around noon, though. 
 (putting down money) He will this morning. (to Dave) See you later, old-timer... 
 (effusively) Oh, come in, Mr. Rocklin. Come right in. 
 I understand you were Red Caldwell's lawyer? 
 (immediately on guard) I was. 
 Know anything about this? 
 I don't understand. Job? What job? 
 Foreman. 
 (gaping) On the "K.C."? (trying to take it in) But -- but why should he want you? 
 Why not? Good foremen don't grow on bushes. 
 (thinking hard) Is that your only motive for coming here? 
 What other motive could I have? 
 I don't know -- It's just that Red Caldwell was a peculiar man -- had a funny way of doing things. 
 Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Rocklin, that you've been brought all this way on a fool's errand, but -- I'm afraid the deal's off. 
 Off? 
 I don't want to be too hard on you, but as executor of the estate I have to consider the interests of the new owner. How about, say, a hundred in full settlement? 
 (thoughtfully) Well -- 
 That's my last word -- think it over. 
 (graciously) How do you do, ladies -- 
 (icily) You are Judge Garvey, I presume. 
 (nods) Yes -- and you are -- 
 Miss Martin -- and my niece, Clara Caldwell. 
 (reaching for a chair) Of course -- of course -- 
 You came at a very opportune moment, madam. This gentleman claims to have some sort of a letter from the late Mr. Caldwell, engaging him as foreman of the "K.C." 
 What! 
 (to Garvey) What do you mean -- claims to have? -- You saw it, didn't you? 
 (before Garvey can answer) You can't hold us to account for every promise made by that man. Everyone knows he wasn't responsible for his actions half the time. And if you think I'd have you as a foreman -- 
 (finds it hard to control himself) Listen, lady -- I'd rather walk for somebody else, than ride for you. 
 (taken aback) Well -- the impudence -- 
 All I come for this morning was to pay beck the hundred and fifty Red Caldwell sent in advance. 
 Oh, no 
 Don't interfere, Clara. Of course he must pay it back. 
 The railway fare -- well, I reckon we can check that up against the time lost and call it quits. (throws down a roll of bills in front of Garvey) 
 (summoning up her courage) But, Mr. -- er -- I don't know your name... 
 (raising his hat) Rocklin, miss. 
 Mr. Rocklin, it isn't fair for you to pay anything back. 
 That's how I'd prefer it, If you don't mind, miss -- never did care fer owing favors to no one -- especially women. 
 (as if she had been struck) Oh! 
 But really, Miss Arly, why should you deliver your message through me? 
 If you're referring to Sheriff Jackson... 
 But that's absurd. The fact that he employs one of the Clews brothers doesn't make the other his friend. 
 (hastening to change the conversation) Oh, Miss Caldwell, this is Miss Harolday -- Miss Martin, Miss Caldwell's aunt. You should know one another, seeing you'll be neighbors. Miss Harolday runs the Santee Ranch for her stepfather. She's a famous -- ah -- horsewoman in these parts. 
 (with ingenuous enthusiasm) I know. I saw you ride into town this morning. You looked lovely. Just what I'd like to be. 
 (completely innocent) Oh, this is Mr. Rocklin. He drove us in from Garden City last night. He... 
 (dead pan) I already met Miss Harolday. 
 Oh. 
 (murmuring) What, again? 
 What for? 
 Hmmm -- That's a foreman's wages. 
 (pushing her way forward) I warn you, you're making a great mistake. This man is no good. 
 Auntie! 
 (indicating the door) Lead the way. 
 (after they have gone) Auntie, why did you have to say that? I simply don't understand you... 
 (cutting in, grimly) But I understand you. (scathingly) I'd be ashamed of myself. Throwing myself at a man like that. 
 I... I... (suddenly bursting into tears) Oh, you're horrid -- horrid. I wish I'd never come. 
 You must excuse her. She's young. 
 And inexperienced. 
 (significantly) And young people must be protected from themselves at times -- don't you agree? 
 (at last, with a grim echo of a smile) Exactly. 
 (to Arly, indicating Julio) Does he always follow you? 
 (takes it mildly) Oh -- just an old Indian friend. 
 (quietly) Why did you do it, Arly? 
 (with a little sigh) All right. Send him in. 
 Mr. Rocklin, what happened between you and my son last night? 
 Poker. 
 Hmmm. About this suggestion of you working for me. 
 It's your suggestion, not mine. 
 Ye-es. Sixty dollars is big money. 
 (turning to go) If you've changed your mind... 
 No, no.... Wait a minute. I take it you've had the experience. 
 Enough for Red Caldwell to hire me as foreman. 
 Oh -- had Caldwell hired you? 
 Yeah -- but I won't ride for the new owners -- so that leaves me open. 
 I see -- Were you a friend of Red's? 
 No -- I guess he just heard about me. 
 (as excited as a schoolboy) George Clews is in town. He's seen what you done to Bob and he's a- lookin' for you. 
 The street is clear. 
 (to Dave irritably) Tell him I'll be out in the street in front of the saloon. 
 (dashing out, radiant) Uh-huh! 
 I'm gonna get his ears. 
 (loudly) Hi you, George Clews -- 
 Rocklin says if you don't come out, he'll come in here after you, an' tear you apart. 
 (taps Clews) That was my beer, you know. 
 (nastily) If he comes in again -- I'll throw you. 
 (to the Clews) That does it, boys -- you know where the door is. 
 (to Bob) Com-mon -- I'll get his ears. 
 Not until I get my money -- 
 There's three drinks and a broken beer glass. 
 (to Bob, after a second's deliberation) Pay 'im. 
 I'll get his ears. 
 (quietly) That Rocklin'll kill him for sure. 
 Le's hope. 
 (yelling) I'm coming -- and you'd better run! 
 (quietly) Draw a gun and I'll kill you. 
 (to Rocklin) Hey, you! What's this you been up to? 
 I just laid a gun barrel over the head of a drunk friend of yours -- same as you did over Dave's here yesterday. 
 (surprised) Eh? 
 (blustering) I don't know what you're talking about. 
 (calmly) You're a liar! 
 Now you lookee here, young feller. You go on talking that way and you'll find yourself in trouble. 
 Don't say you ain't been warned. 
 (ignoring everyone but Rocklin) I saw you. I saw you strike that poor man. 
 Yes, ma'am. As hard as I could. 
 You ruffian, you! 
 Let me go! (to Rocklin) I knew the sort you were the moment I set eyes on you. You can't fool me! You're nothing but a common adventurer! Come, Clara! 
 -- Now what was that you were sayin' about Caldwell? 
 You being hired by Red Caldwell only confirms what I'd suspected -- he was getting ready to fight. 
 (trying to get information) Fight? Who? 
 Organized rustling. Well at least -- that's my belief. Red was no friend of mine. Too fond of taking the law into his own hands. But he had my sympathy. He'd been harder hit than any of us. And on top of it all, he lost his foreman. 
 You mean, he quit on him? 
 He was shot -- in the back -- with a bullet from the same caliber rifle as got Red. 
 Got any ideas? 
 No -- Except that the man you just pistol-whipped is in on it somewhere. (bitterly) Pity you didn't kill him when you had the chance. 
 Say -- it don't sound as if it's goin' to be too easy for them wimmen at the K.C. 
 (watching him keenly) Want to go back and work for them? 
 No, sir. And I ain't jumping at this offer o' yours either because I don't hold with working for wimmen. 
 (quickly) Oh, you mean my step-daughter. Well don't worry. She won't interfere with you...Rocklin -- I figure we've been losin' cattle over a place called Table Top -- it's the back way into the Topaz Ranch and the perfect route for rustlers -- I'm going to send you up to the line camp -- you don't mind working a lone hand -- do you? 
 (measuring) -- I like workin' that way. 
 (rising and holding out a hand) Good -- be ready to move out this afternoon. 
 (in his best sales talk) -- now Pap -- I'm givin' you first call on me services. They's lots of other folks lookin' fer a good man, too -- you know. So if you want me, you better hurry and speak up because -- 
 'scuse me, Pap -- Be right back to find out when I start. 
 Whar you off to? 
 I'm riding for the Topaz Ranch. 
 What! -- Have you gone plumb loco? 
 Good money -- sixty a month 
 There ain't enough money in this town to make it worth your while to work for that gal. 
 When she gits goin' she can be meaner'n a skillet full o' snakes. She ain't goin' to forget the way you made a fool of her today -- in front of the whole town. 
 Be right with you. (to Rocklin) It's pizen that's what it is -- jus' plain --- What you want to hang around this town for anyways? -- 
 Be right with you. 
 Good afternoon, Mr. Rocklin. (looking at the sky) Lovely day, isn't it? 
 Reckon it is pretty nice. So you're moving in on the "K.C." eh? 
 (hesitating and throwing a look toward Miss Martin) We-el, not exactly moving in. You see... 
 (acidly, locking straight ahead) Do you have to discuss our private affairs with every rag-tag-and-bobtail cow-person we meet, Clara? 
 (in a low voice) Auntie! 
 Sorry if I butted in, ma'am. Jest passing the time o'day. 
 We can do very well without it -- thank you. (with a look over her shoulder) And you're keeping your lady friend waiting. 
 (cheerfully) Nope. 
 How far is the line-camp at Table- Top? 
 Twenty-five -- thirty mile. 
 I'm moving out there first thing in the morning. (as Juan turns and stares) Boss' orders. Care to show me the way? 
 I will show you. 
 (pointing ahead) The trail is straight ahead. You will find the cabin at the top. (turning back to his horse) Adios, Senor. 
 (challenging, but perfectly friendly) Senor Romerez, it appears that you do not like me. 
 (during the above business) Senor, that is true. I do not like you. 
 Why? 
 (extending the pouch) Permit that I offer you a cigarette. 
 It is not your fault that your shadow is black. But you will only bring unhappiness to my senorita. I do not blame you, but I fear I must hate you. 
 Adios, Senor. 
 Hiya there. 
 Buenos dias, Senor Dave. (looking at name on wagon) You have found new employer, eh? 
 Yeah. Haulin' freight for ole Pap Fossler. Got a letter here for that crazy galoot, Rocklin. (with a little Wink) From the little Caldwell girl. Seems mighty took up about sumpin'. Made me promise to deliver it personal. (indicates letter) 
 But Senor Rocklin is not here. 
 Lordy -- he ain't quit already... 
 (shakes head) I have just accompany him to Table- Top. 
 (turning to Shelley) Have you seen Arly? 
 No, suh, Ah didn't see Miss Arly today, but Ah seed her las' night, and she shore was mad. 
 Plenty mad! 
 
 (not too definitely) 'Mornin', Arly -- 
 (as Arly leans down to pick up the jacket) You must be feeling pretty good. 
 (as he joins Arly) Say, Arly -- about that poker game, night before last, I --- 
 (did he hear correctly) Forget it? 
 (with a perplexed smile) What is this? -- 
 What do I mean? -- 
 TALA'S VOICE Good morning, Arliete. 
 You have make yourself very pretty today. 
 (pleasantly) See what I mean? 
 (easily) Rocklin is not here. 
 He has gone to the line camp at Table Top. 
 It was Mr. Harolday's orders. 
 (in a fatherly manner) Why do you make your heart heavy with thoughts of him, little one. -- He is not for you. 
 He has made the choice, Arliete. With your own eyes you saw it yesterday. 
 And she, too, has opened her heart to him -- Already she has summoned him to her. 
 Dave -- of the white beard -- carries a letter to Rocklin -- It is from her. 
 I have just now met Dave, and he tell me. -- So now he rides to Table Top. 
 Little one you -- 
 Good morning, Julio -- morning Arly. (to Julio as he dismounts) Fetch my briefcase -- it's on my desk. 
 Looks like we're going to get that land we've been wanting along the river bottom. 
 I didn't tell you -- but I bought the mortgage on the Hardman ranch, and it's due today -- On my way over there now. 
 I did. 
 You generally do. 
 It seemed to me a good idea -- what with all this rustling going on -- 
 (coldly) I don't agree with you. In any case -- if you must have it -- I'd no intention of engaging a man at foreman's wages just to gratify the whims of a jealous woman! 
 (very controlled) It's you should take care, my dear. I'm afraid there's one man you can't rawhide into jumping the way you want. You've made a fool of yourself over him once. Better watch out you don't do it again. 
 (during the above) Durn funny -- that storm quittin' just about the time I get here. 
 No funnier than you sloggin' through it, just to deliver a letter from a woman. 
 (disgustedly) Reckon I'm gettin' to be more of a fool the older I get. 
 When are we gonna get around to readin' it? 
 Thought I'd wait till mornin' -- might be bad news an' I wouldn't be able to sleep. 
 Mmmm -- dineroo. 
 ROCKLIN'S VOICE (reading) Forgive me if this letter is a trifle incoherent, but I am terribly worried and unhappy. 
 Who wouldn't be -- livin' with that ole screech owl. 
 (continues to read) I am desperately in need of help and advice from someone whom I feel I can trust, and I am appealing to you, because I regard you in the same way my Uncle surely must have. I heartily dislike and distrust Judge Garvey -- 
 (interrupting) Huh -- Smart girl -- 
 (going on) But my Aunt seems to have suddenly revised her opinion of him, and now wants me to place all my affairs in the Judge's hands and return east. Such is certainly not my wish. 
 (significantly) Looks kinda like she's formed an attachment. 
 (quickly) For the locality, I mean. 
 (continues reading) I wanted so much to give ranch life a trial, but fear circumstances are against me, especially in view of the recent Indian trouble -- 
 (explosively) Indian trouble -- (in normal tone) Good Lord, they ain't been any Indian trouble around here in -- 
 (caustically) You want to hear the rest of this? 
 (getting the inference) Might's well -- come this far. 
 (reading) I want to apologize for what took place this afternoon. And I am returning the 150, because I feel it is rightfully yours. You must take it. Faithfully yours, Clara Caldwell. 
 (feeling his socks) Well -- what do you make of it? 
 Somebody's sure bustin' to get her out of there. 
 Indian trouble -- 
 (after a pause) Wonder why the old lady's playin' along? 
 (sourly) Baaa -- Wimmen -- Who can ever figure 'em? (pause) Got to admit though, I feel a mite sorry for the young'un -- nice little tyke. 
 Too nice for this country. 
 (after a slight pause) She's shore a pretty thing. 
 Don't know how I could help her -- even if I wanted to -- I don't know any thing about this Garvey -- or Caldwell -- or -- 
 Well, now -- I could mebbe help you out some, there -- Fact, I could tell you somethin' 'bout ole Red that might be interestin'. 
 You must have known him pretty well -- What kind of a man was he? 
 Caldwell? -- The best -- cantankerous cuss -- but a real cowman, believe me -- He was a big feller, like yourself -- Fact, you coulda passed fer a blood relation, come to think of it. 
 (casually, as he busies himself with the biscuits) Was the Judge and Red friends? 
 (anigmatically) That's what you'd say. Garvey managed all Red's business. Besides which they was regular drinkin' pals -- played poker together most nights -- tho' they do say Red got the worst of it. 
 Red was a gambler, eh? 
 Oh, yeah -- reckon a pretty poor one, tho' -- still you'd say him and Garvey was friends. 
 (after a side glance to Dave) Anything ever happen to make you think they weren't? 
 (moves close to Rocklin) Rock -- I'm gonna tell you somethin' I ain't never told anybody. 
 (with a slight smile) Think you can trust me? 
 The last time I seen Red was the day he died -- 
 -- 'Twas in town -- he jus' come out of the stage office. Tried to book passage to Garden City but couldn't on account I had a full load. -- Well, sir, he took me aside and give me a printed sheet of paper and says, "Read it." I looked it over and fer as I could see it was a paper from one of them Chicago sportin' firms, tellin' how to manipulate trick playin' cards. 
 Marked cards. 
 (nods) Reckon so. -- Seems Red found some cards and this paper in a coat one of his friends loaned him one night. 
 Whose was it? 
 Well, now that's just what I asked -- but all he said, was that it belonged to a good friend. Then he said he wasn't waitin' fer the next coach, but was ridin' over to see the district judge about it alone. 
 That's when they got him. 
 Yes, sir -- 'bout a mile or so from Stan's place. A bullet in the back an' his pockets empty. 
 How come you never told this before? 
 Who was there to tell? -- Sheriff Jackson? -- Him an' Garvey's thick as thieves. 
 How about what's his name -- Harolday? -- He's no friend of the Judge's, is he? 
 Hates his guts -- sure riles him to see young Clint hangin' onto the Judge's coattails. All the same, I jus' decided to keep my mouth shut and my eyes open. 
 (after a pause) Even if it was Garvey Red was talkin' about -- it don't follow that he killed him. 
 No -- general opinion is that it was rustlers. 
 Why would rustlers take the evidence Caldwell had with him? 
 Looks to me if you get the man who owned the marked cards, you get the killer. 
 (drinking) Funny tho' -- first the K.C. foreman -- then Caldwell -- an' now these women. 
 Lordy -- you ain't thinkin' somebody might try bumpin' them? 
 (slowly, to himself) I'm not so sure somebody hasn't tried already -- (to Dave) Remember, when we stopped to change horses on the way Over from Garden City -- 
 Shore -- you told me how Jackson and Clews tried to frame Stan. 
 (nods) Yeah. Like they wanted to be sure he'd keep his mouth shut about something. 
 And layin' that gun across my skull -- an' offerin' to drive the coach themselves. 
 (nods) It was almost as if -- 
 (going to Dave) You all right? 
 (blustering) Will be if I ever get dry. 
 Lookit that -- 
 Good Lord -- 
 Come on -- 
 My team. 
 That's not your team. 
 Come on -- 
 No use -- he's gone. 
 Mebbe we winged him. 
 
 (smiling wryly) Not bad shootin'. 
 Sure -- to draw us away from here. (looks at his hat) You know, you cut it mighty close -- Good thing I ain't got brains enough to fill it. 
 (suppressing smile) Too bad you had to come 'way up here through that storm for nothin'. 
 Oh -- (nods) I see. 
 Mind if I wait for Dave? He ought to be along any minute -- Be funny if he winged that shadow of yours. 
 (mildly surprised) You came up alone? 
 (half believing her) Then who was that we took out after? 
 Who was he? 
 You mean you won't tell. 
 I guess you forgot -- you jes' fired me. 
 (turning near the open door) So long. 
 DAVE'S VOICE Hey, Rock -- 
 -- He got away -- but guess what, I -- 
 (slowly to Dave) You guess -- 
 (to Dave, who is trying to figure things out) Come on. 
 (glancing back to the cabin) Fer a man who's got a despise fer wimmin, you sure do get all snaggled up with 'em. 
 (as he dismounts) You work for Harolday? 
 Here's one of his horses -- I'll pick up my saddle later. 
 Howdy... 
 (frowning) I thought I sent you up to Table- Top. 
 That's right. 
 (slowly) What happened? 
 (taking off his hat) Well, this, for one thing. 
 (after a little pause) I told you you'd regret letting that rat Clews off so easy. 
 What's the matter? Don't you think it was him, then? 
 (slowly) I been figgerin'. Don't seem reasonable Clews was in condition to take that sort of chance alone... Besides -- how could he have known I was up there -- that soon. And -- George Clews ain't the only one I've run contrariwise to in this town. There's that Mexican, for instance. 
 Juan? 
 He as good as told me yesterday that him and me was due for a run-in one of those days. (suddenly nodding toward window) And then there's him! 
 (excitedly) I just heard that -- that Rocklin was -- (sees Rocklin) 
 (slowly) Was what? 
 (subdued) Was shot at last night. 
 (very calm) Mr. Rocklin was just telling me all about it. (significantly) Any idea who might have done it? 
 Not me. 
 You ain't trying to pin it on me? (his courage returning) 'Cause if you are, you're in for a big disappointment. I was over at the Sun-Up playing poker with the Judge and the rest of the boys till early morning. If you don't believe me, ask for yourself. 
 (after a pause) All right. I believe you. But that don't mean you couldn't tell a thing or two as would help -- if you wanted. 
 (very nervous again) What d'you mean? 
 (sharply) Yes. What sort of thing would Clint here know about, that would help identify the man who tried to kill you last night? 
 This for one. 
 Ever seen it before? 
 (harshly) Well, go on -- speak up. Did you ever see it before? 
 (avoiding Harolday's eye) No. Course I didn't (suddenly raging at Rocklin) Quit riding me! I don't know nothin' about it I tell you. Jest because I had a run-in with you over a game o' cards, that don't mean I'd sneak up on you in the dark and... 
 (frowning deeply) He means trouble. 
 (still at window) Aw, what do I care. 
 (turning on him with cold fury) Listen, I never did have much use for you. You're a poor specimen at the best; but as a would-be bad man you're nothing but a laughing stock. Why, the way you lied about that pouch just now wouldn't have deceived a six-year old. 
 I... 
 (harshly) All right, let it go at that. But I got myself to think of. It wouldn't suit me at all just now to have you shown up in public for what you are by that trouble-shootin' cowhand. My advice to you is to get out of the district and stay out. (taking a key from his vest pocket) You'll find some money in the safe at the ranch. Take what you need and put the key in the desk drawer. Now get. 
 Oh, Mr. Rocklin -- 
 I'm so glad I've found you -- I was on my way to the Santee and learned you were in town. 
 (putting his saddle, etc., aside) Just got in. 
 I feel perfectly awful, running after you like this, but -- 
 You got trouble, eh? 
 My aunt found out I wrote you and made a terrible scene -- 
 You haven't signed everything over to that Garvey, have you? 
 No -- and because I refused, Auntie said she would sign an affidavit that I'm still underage, and then, as my guardian she can do what she likes. 
 Got anything to prove you're not underage? 
 (after a slight pause) No -- but Mr. Garvey has a letter that would prove it. My aunt wrote it before we came out here. 
 S'pose we could get it? 
 He'd never give it to me. 
 (starts for door) Wait here. 
 (with a slight start toward Rocklin) Oh, please -- you -- (she hesitates, not quite sure what to say) You won't go getting yourself in trouble -- I -- I'd rather give up everything -- I mean -- 
 That takes care of that -- (crosses to his desk) Now, I'll draw up an affidavit right away and everything will be taken care of as we want it. 
 (not too enthusiastic) I certainly hope so -- it's not myself I'm concerned about -- 
 (getting out the papers) -- Of course not. 
 I can't say I'm very happy about doing this -- I only hope it works out for the best. 
 It's the better choice of two evils -- now let's see -- (begins to write) I, Elizabeth -- (looks at Miss Martin) It is Elizabeth, isn't it? 
 Yes -- 
 -- Elizabeth Martin, of Danvers, Massachusetts, do hereby -- 
 (leaning back in his chair) Well, Mr. Rocklin, this is indeed a surprise. Didn't expect to see you so soon. I understood you were riding for the Santee. 
 (coldly) That's right. 
 (to Miss Martin) Perhaps you'd better come back later -- 
 ROCKLIN'S VOICE I came for that letter. 
 (calmly) Did you say letter? 
 That's right -- the one Miss Caldwell's aunt wrote from out east sayin' she was of age. Remember? 
 No -- I'm afraid I don't. 
 What is your interest in this letter? 
 My only interest is getting' it. 
 You realize what this is, don't you? -- Robbing -- armed robbery at that. 
 I warn you, you're in for a disappointment. 
 Open up. 
 (has had about enough) Listens, you -- (suddenly controls himself) There's nothing in there that'd interest you. 
 (grimly) I'd like to make up my own mind about that. 
 (forces a chuckle) All right -- I'll open it -- just to convince you I'm not hiding any letter. 
 What's the idea? 
 These cards -- 
 (attempting to bluff it out) Anything wrong in a man having cards in his possession? 
 Depends on what kind they are -- 'specially when they're under lock and key. 
 (too politely) You're taking those, I presume. 
 That's right. 
 (has had almost enough) Now, you look here -- 
 (soberly) You're the one who better start lookin' -- lookin' for a way out for killin' Red Caldwell. 
 (blanches) Caldwell -- 
 (takes up one of the decks of cards) He found out about these -- and you went and killed him. 
 (with an affected smile and unnatural calmness) And you believe a story like that? 
 I will until I hear a better one. (puts deck he holds, in his pocket) I'll just take this along -- the district judge at Garden City should be mighty interested. 
 
 Say -- looks like you two been disagreein' 'bout somethin' -- (to Fossler, who has gone over to Garvey) He ain't daid, is he? 
 Not permanently, I don't reckon. -- What happened, anyways? 
 (to Rocklin) You musta found out somethin'. 
 (with a wink to Dave) I reckon the Judge did, too. 
 Oh, dear -- dear -- are you hurt? 
 (getting up painfully) Get out of my way -- 
 (haughtily) Now don't you use that tone of voice to me -- (going through doorway) I'll have you understand I -- 
 -- Find out who owns that tobaccy pouch yet? 
 (staring straight ahead) No -- but get hold of Clint Harolday. 
 Clint -- Is he in on it? 
 Can't say for sure -- Bring him to the Sun-Up, and don't take no for an answer. 
 ARLY'S VOICE -- So now you know the truth. And if you think you can steal him away from me, you're welcome to try it. 
 (anxiously) Did you get it? 
 No -- but I don't think it's gonna matter much -- you go on back to the K.C. and I'll be out in the mornin' and take you with me to Garden City to see the district judge. 
 But I hate putting you to that trouble. 
 No trouble at all -- I'm going anyway. 
 (soberly) What are you doin' here? 
 (his eyes narrowing) What about, you an' me? 
 (sensing the static in the atmosphere) I think I'd better be going... 
 (turning quickly from Arly) Just a minute -- (glances at Arly) What all has she been tellin' you? 
 (embarrassed) Oh -- oh, really I'd rather not -- 
 Deny what? 
 That she was with you last night at the cabin in the mountains. 
 Well -- why should I deny it?... 
 (this is getting a bit thick for him) Make love to you -- 
 Did you expect me to deny that, too? 
 (to Clara) Now, maybe you ought to hear what I've got to say -- 
 Please -- you needn't explain. After all, it really isn't any of my business, is it? 
 (in the pause he looks at Arly) You little -- 
 If there wasn't a lady here, I'd do more to you than swear. 
 I don't know how I can ever thank you for trying to help me. I do appreciate it ever so much -- (to Arly) Don't think too harshly of me, will you -- I -- 
 You might's well know right now that you or no woman is ever goin' to get me. 
 Don't you? 
 I know there ain't a dirty trick you wouldn't play to get what you want. 
 (quietly but viciously) Whatever is to become of you? 
 Have you no sense of pride, or decency? Throwing yourself at that -- that wretch, like any shameless hussy. 
 I thought we'd done with him -- but no -- you have to run to him and tell him all our business -- 
 Don't you dare deny it -- you know very well you told him about that letter I wrote Mr. Garvey. 
 Didn't you? -- 
 Didn't you? 
 Tell Miss Martin that I'll take care of everything. 
 -- You take clare of evelything. 
 
 
 Come in -- 
 Here he is, Rock. Caught him jist in time near the Santee. Headed fer out, I'd say. 
 Sit down, Clint. (to Dave, as he reaches into his pocket) How about goin' down below an' havin' one on me? 
 (delighted) Well, now -- that's right thoughtful -- Holler if you need me. 
 (belligerently, as he stands near the window) What's this all about? 
 (calmly, as he stands up) It ain't gonna do you any good to get all het up and tough, kid -- 
 I just want to ask you a few questions -- that's all. 
 I told you once, I don't know who owns that pouch-- and I don't know who shot you. 
 (calmly) Forget it -- that's not what I want to talk to you about, anyway. 
 (harshly) Well, what do you want to talk about? Come on, get it over with. 
 Clint -- I want you to tell me why Garvey murdered Red Caldwell -- 
 You know -- don't you? 
 (shaking) Me? No! 
 Oh yes you do. (advancing on him) And you're going to tell me all about it. 
 I don't know nothing, I tell you -- I -- 
 Talk! 
 I tell ya, I... 
 (hitting him again) Talk! 
 (in a hoarse scream) No! No, don't! 
 What happened? Who is it? Clint Harolday -- Etc. 
 Where's Doc Riding? 
 Get the Doc. Hey, Doc -- He was down below. Here he is. 
 Look out, men -- Let the Doc through. Etc. 
 (breaking the silence) Somebody better fetch Harolday. 
 Shorty's already gone for him. 
 (getting up) Better get Arly, too. 
 She was at the hotel a while ago. 
 (looking down at Clint and shaking his head) He was only a kid. 
 JACKSON'S VOICE What's goin' on here -- gang way -- 
 What's the trouble here -- 
 (with a bitter smile) I warned you, didn't I? -- Well, I guess this is the last trouble you'll ever make in this town. (extending his hand) Hand over that gun. 
 Just a minute, now -- 
 (to the crowd, generally) I know it looks bad -- but I didn't kill the kid. 
 I believe you. (to the others) His gun was layin' over there on the floor when I come in and -- 
 (cutting in) No it wasn't -- It was right in my hand -- like it is now. 
 If you didn't know him -- then who did? 
 I don't know -- (looks at garvey) But I'm going to find out. 
 (as he nears Rocklin's door) Where is he? -- Where's my boy? 
 (with cold violence) You murderer. 
 I didn't do it, Mr. Harolday. 
 (quickly) Then who did? 
 (from crowd) He had a gun in his hand when we come in. 
 (smoothly) And I'll bet it's the same one the bullet that killed Clint came out of. 
 Well, what do you say to that? 
 He's right. 
 You admit it. 
 Yeah -- but that still don't say I killed him. 
 Aw, take him away -- Liar -- Lock him up, Sheriff -- The yellow-bellied -- Etc. 
 I didn't. 
 He admits it was his gun that shot him. 
 That's right. 
 (slowly) Clint and me was having a bit of an argument. 
 (searching for words) About whether he was going to help clear up a few things that's been bothering me and some others 'round these parts. (looking at Garvey) For instance -- who it was shot Red Caldwell. 
 Caldwell! 
 (still at Garvey) And the K.C. foreman. And who took that shot at me up at Table-Top last night. And why certain people are so anxious to get rid of the Caldwell girl. 
 How would Clint know about all that? 
 (harshly) He's lying. He's trying to cover up for killing my boy. 
 (encouraged by the support) Quit stalling, Rocklin. 
 Well -- Clint was getting' all set to talk, when -- somebody snuck up along the verandah there and pulled the gun out o' my belt... (indicating the belt on chair) ... and let him have it. 
 What a story! What an alibi! String him up, the heel! Etc. 
 (grinning) You'll have to think up something better than that Rocklin. 
 (smoothly) Don't be a fool, Rocklin. You know you can't get away with a yarn like that. Why don't you save yourself and everyone else a lot of trouble by surrendering to the Sheriff? After all, it isn't such a crime in these parts to kill a man in self-defense. 
 Self-defense? 
 Everyone knows what Clint was like. He probably lost his head and pulled a gun on you, like he did at the Sun- Up that night. Wasn't that it? 
 (grimly; after a little pause) No, that wasn't it. And till I do what I got to do, I ain't surrenderin' to anybody -- least of all to your pal here. (indicates sheriff) If I got to be shot for knowing too much, it ain't going to be in the back, in a framed-up jail-break. 
 Guess they wanted to get Clint, too. Doin' it this way they get us both. Clint first -- an' me afterwards -- like I jus' said. 
 Quit fancy talk. Who's "they?" 
 I might be able to tell you that later. 
 (quickly) No you won't -- because you're comin' with me. 
 (raises his gun) Am I? 
 The first one that moves -- gets it. 
 (sarcastically) Well, Sheriff -- you certainly are to be congratulated. 
 (harassed) Look, Mr. Harolday -- you saw what happened -- 
 (deeply concerned) Never mind that -- Let's get going for Garden City -- that's where he's headed for. 
 You sure? 
 I'm positive. 
 JACKSON'S VOICE All right, men -- follow me -- 
 
 I mighta knowed you'd do somethin' like this. (as Rocklin slows the team) What are we doin'? 
 Headin' for the K.C. 
 
 
 (impatiently) Now -- what is it? 
 The name's Clews, ma'am -- Mr. Garvey sent us out -- 
 (eagerly) Said you were expectin' trouble with that Rocklin. 
 I am. (acidly to George) -- But I'm wondering if you're up to it. I noticed you didn't fare so well with him yesterday. 
 He was drunk -- 
 (quickly) Yeah -- But I'm sober now. 
 Well, see that you stay that way. 
 Don't worry, ma'am -- I've jus' bin waitin' to get even with that saddle- bum. 
 (with that oily smile) We'll be close-by. 
 (confidently) You bet. 
 Seen anybody ridin' hard for Garden City. 
 Bin on the road since sundown -- ain't seen a livin' soul -- be he man or beast. 
 He mighta taken the cutoff through Jaw Bone Canyon. 
 After that storm? -- He'd never make it. 
 There's only one other place he might have gone -- the K.C. 
 You think so? 
 (very definitely) I'm positive. 
 That's what you said before. 
 (shouting to the posse milling around) To the K.C., men. 
 It is dangerous, senorita. 
 You would risk your life for Senor Rocklin? 
 Only for you -- you must not do this -- I will go through from here alone. 
 You can ease up now. 
 We're just about there. 
 
 
 (peering into shed) Hey, George -- George, get up. 
 (in a very low tone) You vile, ungrateful strumpet -- running away in the night, like a deceitful sneak-thief -- 
 (unrestrained) Yes -- I'm running away -- and it's all your fault -- you're the one who's been deceitful and sneaking -- and don't think I don't know what you intend doing. 
 (very controlled) -- And don't think I don't know what you intend doing. 
 (crying, as she moves away) I don't care -- I'm not ashamed of it -- and nothing you can say or do is going to stop me. 
 (hardly above a whisper) You little fool -- if you go to Garden City with that man -- you stand to lose everything. 
 (stops pacing) But why? -- Why are you being so secretive? -- If you know something, why don't you tell me? 
 (nods and mumbles to himself) Yeah -- why don't you? -- 
 (Unmindful of the presence of the men) All right, I'll tell you -- Rocklin is a nephew of the late Mr. Caldwell. And, as nearest of kin, he stands to get everything -- according to the will. Because you are not the old man's niece, but only his grand-niece. 
 CLARA'S VOICE And you and Mr. Garvey knew the truth all the time? 
 -- And you knew the truth all the time, too -- didn't you? -- No wonder you stuck around -- 
 Get in here and take care of her. 
 Come on -- 
 (comfortingly) You are crying, senorita --? 
 (knows she is) It is too bad we lose your horse. She was good horse, for sure. 
 -- And I heard one of them tell my aunt not to worry, that he was just as anxious as she was to get even with you. 
 (as Clara and Rocklin react) This is the only way I could handle her. 
 The Clews are around here some place -- Garvey sent 'em out. 
 You bet we're around. 
 (to Bob) Untie her. 
 (to Dave) Untie her. 
 (to Bob) Now tie him up. (indicates Dave) 
 (quickly, as she picks up the tassled cord) I'll take part in this -- you -- you hairy beast. 
 
 Help me get her to the bed. 
 (indicating Rocklin on the floor) What'll we do with 'em? 
 Take them in to Mr. Garvey and tell him I must see him at once. 
 (triumphantly) We'll dump them right in the Judge's lap. 
 (still administering to Clara) Hadn't you better tie him, too? 
 (to Bob, after a second's pause) Get some more rope. 
 Get our horses and meet me at the gate. 
 (to Arly) What are you doin' with that gun, Arly? 
 ARLY'S VOICE Neither is it yours -- Get down out of there -- before I knock you down. 
 
 
 (taking the pouch) That belongs to the man who shot at me on Table-Top -- Dave found it. 
 (anxiously) Come on -- let's git goin' -- 
 (as he walks to wagon) Where's the girl? 
 Back at the house -- 
 We've got to get her. 
 (to Dave) Come on -- 
 (mutters) Stubborn as an ole mule. (shouts) You're puttin' a rope around your neck -- 
 
 (softly) But what'll we do with the ole lady? 
 Anything you like. 
 I'd like to pizen her. 
 If you'll just take this -- you'll go to sleep -- 
 Evenin' ma'am -- hate to bother you like this, but -- 
 (seeing Garvey, interrupts) I'm so glad you've come, Mr. Garvey, the most awful -- (as though seeing the crowd for the first time) -- Why -- what are all these people doing here? 
 We're after Rocklin -- has he been here? 
 (smugly) Oh yes -- here and gone. 
 What! 
 (astounded) Gone -- 
 (triumphantly) Yes -- the two men you sent out are taking him and that horrid old man back to town. 
 The Clewses -- funny we didn't see them. 
 Somethin' musta gone wrong -- We better fan out and see what's goin' on. 
 (quickly) Don't leave, Mr. Garvey -- I've got to talk with you, privately -- 
 But, madam -- 
 It's very important. 
 We'll go on and meet you in town. 
 Perhaps you'd better. (calls to Jackson o.s.) I'll meet you in town, Jackson. 
 JACKSON'S VOICE Right -- come on, men. 
 (quickly, as he turns to Miss Martin) -- And you're positive he knows everything? 
 Absolutely everything -- He was standing at the window all the time -- the scoundrel. 
 (whispers) You better get back on the bed -- in case they come in here. 
 If you were to ask me, I think the best thing to do is -- 
 (irritably) I'm not asking you -- and don't bother me with your silly questions -- we've got to do something besides talk. 
 (drawing herself up) You mean -- you have to do something. 
 -- This was all your idea, remember. 
 (tossing it off) My idea -- that's all you know about it. 
 If there's anybody else in on it -- speak up, Judge. 
 Well -- I do declare -- 
 (to Garvey, quite casually) Talk. 
 
 (blasting, to Miss Martin) Not you. 
 (to Garvey) Ever see that before? 
 (blanches) No -- it's not mine. 
 Tell me whose it is. 
 (shaking) No -- no -- I don't know -- 
 
 ARLY'S VOICE Drop that gun. 
 (almost enjoying this) You seem to like to do business through windows, Mr. Harolday. 
 You're not Clint's killer, by any chance -- 
 Well, now we're gettin' some place -- 
 (to Harolday) Why did you kill Caldwell? 
 ROCKLIN'S ANGLE 
 
 -- Harolday wanted the K.C. like he wanted the Santee and the Hardman place, for his land scheme -- He planned on breaking up the ranches into small holdings and selling to dirt farmers. He pretended to be on the outs with me so I could get Caldwell's confidence. And when Red caught me with the crooked cards and threatened to expose me -- Harolday shot him. 
 Why did he kill Clint? An' not me? 
 That shot was an accident -- it was meant for you. We planned on getting the women to let me handle their business -- 
 (interrupting, furious) -- And do us out of everything -- (moves close to Garvey) You vile -- wicked -- despicable -- 
 When he wakes up -- we'll have him put everything on paper. 
 Well, you'll have to do the writin' -- 'cause I don't know how to write. 
 (genuinely concerned) Oh, Mr. Rocklin -- please -- I think Auntie is out of her mind -- she's in her room -- laughing. 
 (grimaces) What that ole pelican needs is a good spankin'. 
 (his eyes flash with an idea) Yeah -- I believe I am. (looks at the group) I know I am. 
 I guess there's no rush for you to get to Garden City, now -- 
 No -- I don't suppose there's any -- rush -- 
 (after Arly goes) If I was like her, I'd stay in the West. 
 That means you're goin' back East -- Cousin Clara? 
 (smiles, nods) It's where I belong -- I know that now -- 
 It's good to know where you Belong, I reckon -- Wish I knew. 
 (wistfully) I can tell you -- you belong with her -- 
 (after a pause) Thanks. 
 Everything. 
 (reflecting) It didn't start out so beautiful. 
 Fer instance? 
 (shouting) Hey, Rock -- Rock -- get out your pencil and paper -- 
 
