 
 
 It's Peezee. Gotta be.    He hates your fuckin' guts. 
 (brooding) I don't know. 
 Who else knew about the money? And how did Peezee know they popped Tony Cisco when we didn't even hear about it 'til last night? 
 (sighs heavily) I don't know. 
 (pressing) What is so hard to understand here? You said yourself Peezee was a mamaluke and you couldn't trust him. Now suddenly you're soft on the guy? 
 I just don't think it was him. 
 Okay, I'll bite. If not Peezee, then who? 
 (slowly rising to his full height) I think it was you, Ducks. Caesar starts to walk away as the bartender, now holding a sawed-off shotgun, moves closer to Ducks. The exotic dancer splits in a hurry through a curtain at the back of the stage. 
 (scared) You gotta be kiddin'! Caesar stops at the door where two of his soldiers have 
 Caesar, you know me! What kind of fuckin' idiot would I have to be to try that shit with you? 
 A dead fuckin' idiot. As he walks out the door, the soldiers OPEN FIRE on Marty "Ducks." Caesar doesn't look back. 
: 
 Garbage.   Change the channel. 
 Okay, Paul. The gets up and starts switching channels on the TV. A couple of CONVICTS in the back start to protest. 
 Hey!   What're you doin', asshole! Vitti turns and stares at them.      They fall silent immediately. 
 Sorry, Mr. Vitti. Didn't mean any disrespect. 
 Punks. Vitti turns the page and sees a huge headline in the Post: MOB SHRINK TELLS ALL. He gets up, agitated. 
 I'm going to bed. Vitti stands up and heads back to his cell. 
 (suspicious) What's goin' on, Earl? 
 They're transferring me. 
 Why? 
 (shrugs) Don't know. Thanks for looking out for me, Mr. Vitti. 
 Yeah.     Take it easy. He notices something in the box. 
 Hey, Earl.     Is that my after-shave? 
 (blanches) I'm sorry. I just grabbed stuff -- I didn't know -- 
 That's okay.     Keep it.   Go ahead. 
 Thanks.     See you around. Earl exits with the guard. Vitti hesitates a moment, then warily steps into his cell. CUT TO: INT. VITTI'S CELL - MIDDLE OF NIGHT The cellblock is quiet. A guard stops outside the darkened cell, looks around to make sure no one is watching, then 
 And now I'd like to call on Isaac's son, Dr. Ben Sobel, who would like to say a few words. Ben rises and crosses solemnly to the podium. 
 (addressing audience) It's very difficult for me to talk about my father, because in a sense I'm talking about two men. 
 BEN (CONT'D) One, of    course, is the public Isaac Sobel,    the eminent psychotherapist and popular    author known to millions of readers    around the world. Laura, Michael and Ben's Mother listen proudly to the eulogy. 
 The second Isaac Sobel is the private man -- my father -- Dad. And for those of you who knew him well and knew our family -- well, let's face it -- my father was a psychotic, mind- fucking prick. An arrogant, abusive, ego-inflated -- A RINGING CELL PHONE interrupts him. JUMP CUT TO: 
 
 (whispers) Hello? The mourners mutter. 
 Guess who, you fuck! INTERCUT WITH: 
 Paul? (to Laura) I have to, uh, take this. (into phone) This isn't a good time. Vitti is disheveled, his hair messed, his shirt buttoned wrong. 
 Not a good time? Let me explain something to you. I'm in fucking Hell right now. This is not a good time. 
 (sotto voce) I can't talk right now.     My father died! 
 So what does that have to do with me? 
 Call me later -- 
 Don't hang up on, Sobel!    They're tryin' to kill me! 
 He stands there for a long beat just staring, the DIAL TONE BUZZING in his ear. CUT TO: INT. SING SING - MESS HALL - NEXT DAY 
 #2 Ooh, they got tapioca. I love tapioca. (looks at Vitti) You all right, Paul? Vitti just stares, wild-eyed, actually drooling a little. 
 #2 Can I have your tapioca? 
 (to Vitti) Hey, Fredo! Or is it Guido? His friends laugh. Vitti stops and stares dumbly at them. 
 Just keep walkin', Don Corleone. There is a tense moment, then Vitti bursts out laughing. 
 Shut up! Vitti laughs harder, strangely manic. 
 I said, shut up, bitch! 
 You're a dead man, jefe! Coyote lunges at Vitti with the knife, but Vitti suddenly whirls around, bashes Coyote in the face with his food tray and bursts into song. 
 (singing, with appropriate dance moves) 'When you're a Jet, You're a Jet all the way, From your first cigarette To your last dyin' day...' Prisoners and guards stare at him like he's nuts. Coyote stabs at him again, but Vitti dodges and smashes him over the head with the tray. 
 'When you're a Jet, If the shit hits the fan, You got brothers around, You're a family man...' 
 You're a dead man, jefe! Coyote rushes him, but Vitti sidesteps and hits him in the face. Guards move in from all sides.   Vitti jumps up on the tabletop to escape them. 
 (kicking at them, singing) 'I like to be in America, Okay by me in America...' The guards drag him down and cuff his hands behind him, then carry him out stiff as a board. 
 'Tonight, tonight, won't be just any night -- ' DISSOLVE TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER A limo pulls up to an old, but well-maintained suburban house, the family gets out and starts walking to the house. 
 (sighs deeply) I can't believe he's gone. 
 I can't believe what you said about him. Cold and withholding? You had to tell everybody? 
 Nice. Why didn't you just take a swing at the casket? Ben opens the front door and they go in. CUT TO: INT. FOYER - CONTINUOUS ACTION The family enters the foyer. 
 Okay, I might have strayed from my notes a little. I'm dealing with a lot of stuff here. Grief is a process. Laura notices FBI AGENTS CERRONE and MILLER waiting for them in the living room. Cerrone is an attractive woman in her late twenties, wearing a dangerously-short skirt. Miller is a clean-cut man in his thirties. 
 Dr. Sobel, I'm Agent Miller, this is Special Agent Cerrone, Federal Bureau of Investigation. We'd just like to ask you a few questions, if we could. 
 (testy) Can I ask what this is about?    We just came from the cemetery. 
 We know this is a difficult time for you, Dr. Sobel. Sorry about your father. 
 Thank you, I'm going to miss him 
 I mean -- there were issues -- as, I think, there are with any father and son. He wasn't especially warm -- 
 Ben -- once today? Enough. 
 No, I'm just saying, in spite of all that -- Agent Cerrone crosses her legs, a move that does not go unnoticed by Ben and Michael. 
 -- he was a great, great legs. (beat) Man. 
 Dr. Sobel, you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti? Laura shoots him a look. 
 What makes you think Paul Vitti called me? 
 Because we monitor and record all his phone calls from Sing Sing. 
 Then yes.   He did. 
 That was him on the phone? 
 Yes. 
 And you didn't tell me? 
 Wow.   Talk about withholding. 
 Michael? 
 You told her -- (nodding at Agent Cerrone) You told her at the drop of a hat. Agents Cerrone and Miller eye each other. 
 She's with the F.B.I.   She needs to know these things. 
 Oh, I see. And I don't. Why tell Laura? She couldn't possibly handle a phone call. 
 Did I say that? 
 You folks need a minute? 
 No, we're fine. 
 If you don't need me anymore, I'll be in the kitchen. (to Agent Cerrone) And two words of advice -- from one professional woman to another -- Pant. Suit. She exits. 
 She's grieving. It's a process. 
 We understand. (prompting) Vitti? 
 Oh, yes. Paul Vitti and I were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago. I mean, I wasn't involved -- not 'involved' involved -- I was just trying to help him therapeutically, and some people tried to, uh, kill us. No big deal. 
 Well, shortly after you spoke, he 
 What kind of breakdown? 
 I think you'd better go up there and see for yourself. CUT TO: INT. SING SING INFIRMARY - PSYCH WARD - DAY 
 (singing) 'I feel pretty, oh, so pretty, I feel pretty and witty and bright...' 
 DR. CUTLER I'm treating him with Thioridazine, 300 milligrams, T.I.D. That seems to keep him pretty calm. 
 (watching Vitti) That would keep a parade pretty calm. He just keeps singing West Side Story songs? 
 DR. CUTLER 'Tonight,' 'Maria,' the balcony scene. 
 The balcony scene?   Both parts? 
 DR. CUTLER Oh, yeah. Get him to do 'Officer Krupke.' It's really good. 
 (singing) 'Who's the pretty girl in the mirror 
 Paul, it's me.    Ben Sobel.   Paul? (beat) Maria? 
 Tony? 
 (with a look to Dr. Cutler) Oh, boy. (to Vitti) What's going on, Maria? 
 The rumble -- it's tonight! I have to get out of here. I don't want to die. No, Chino, no! Vitti's jaw suddenly goes slack and he slumps in his seat, staring forward. 
 Paul?   Paul? Ben waves a hand in front of Vitti's face.       Nothing. 
 DR. CUTLER This is how it's been. He sings for a while, then he goes completely catatonic. 
 (skeptical) Really. Can we take him to an examining room? 
 DR. CUTLER Of course. CUT TO: INT. EXAMINING ROOM - MINUTES LATER Vitti sits inert on the examination table. 
 You already did a neurological work- up? 
 DR. CUTLER Yep. No tumors, no aneurisms, no sign of stroke -- 
 Completely catatonic -- He pulls on Vitti's ears and nose.     Vitti does not react. 
 Totally gone. Well, I don't think he's smart enough to be faking. Street smart, yes, but we're talking about an I.Q. just north of a bedroom slipper. Ben checks Vitti out of the corner of his eye. No reaction. Then Ben takes a sharp needle from an instrument tray. 
 So if I just stuck him with this needle, he probably wouldn't even respond. 
 DR. CUTLER I don't know.    Try it. Ben hesitates for a moment to see if Vitti will crack, then 
 Okay -- He sticks the needle into Vitti's shoulder. 
 (bursts into song) 'Boy, boy, crazy boy, keep cool, boy! Got a rocket in your pocket, keep cool-y cool boy -- ' CUT TO: INT. SING SING - CONSULTATION ROOM - NEXT DAY Vitti is sitting at a table facing Ben.     Dr. Cutler observes from a chair in the corner. 
 Paul, we're going to    give you some tests to assess your    mental condition. There's no pressure    -- just answer as best you can. Do I     have your consent to share the results    of these tests? 
 Mommy's mad at me because I made a boom on the rug. 
 I'll take that as a yes. Okay, I'm going to show you ten cards, each containing a picture of an inkblot. I want you to look at each card and tell me what you see. 
 I see you.   I see him.   I see a table. 
 Focus, Paul. You haven't seen the card yet. (hands him first card) What does this look like to you? Take your time. Vitti looks at the wrong side of the card.    It's all white. 
 It looks like snow. 
 No, Paul, the other side. Vitti turns it over and makes a face. 
 A bat.   A big bat. Or a weasel. 
 (taking notes) Bat or weasel. All right. 
 And he's got a little girl -- no, it's a little boy -- in his teeth -- and he's shakin' him and shakin' him 'cause the kid didn't wipe himself good -- and the kid is screaming because the bat-weasel ripped out his throat and the blood is shootin' out of his neck vein. (pointing) That's the blood. Doctor Cutler looks worried. 
 (skeptical) See anything else? 
 Just the pussy with the teeth. 
 (making more notes) Pussy with teeth. Next card. 
 Vitti is literally trying to pound a square peg into a round hole. 
 Now try repeating the numbers backwards. For instance, if I was 1- 2-3, you will say 3-2-1. Okay, 7-3-8. 
 3-2-1. 
 Try again.   7-3-8. 
 Blue. CUT TO: 
 Just tell me what you think is going on in this picture. 
 This is a picture of a guy -- nice, hardworking guy -- comes home and finds out his wife's been screwin' this midget while he was out of town. 
 (appalled, makes a note) Screwing a midget. And how does the story end? 
 I think he works over the midget for a while, then he blows 'em away. 
 The wife or the midget? 
 (smirks) Trick question, right?    Both of 'em. CUT TO: 
 
 Okay, Paul. Last test. In this one, I'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to. Ready? 'I get angry -- ' 
 Yes. 
 No, you're supposed to complete the sentence. 
 I did.   I said 'yes.' 
 I wasn't asking if you agreed or disagreed; it was more like, 'I get angry when -- ' 
 -- whenever. 
 Well, that about does it for me. CUT TO: INT. U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - DAY Ben meets with RICHARD CHAPIN, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
 Based on his symptoms and the test results, I'd say brief psychotic disorder -- if it persists, possibly schizophreniform disorder. And Dr. Cutler agrees with my diagnosis. 
 So he's crazy? 
 Dr. Cutler?   No, he's annoying, but -- 
 Vitti. 
 Not crazy. At least not permanently. In certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation -- soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you -- it can produce a temporary psychotic state. 
 How temporary? 
 A day, a week, up to a month -- if the precipitating stressors are removed. 
 (musing) Which means he's not going to get any better while he's still in the can. 
 He could get worse. He could deteriorate to the point where he'd be permanently schizophrenic. 
 Then I'd say he's got a real problem, because he goes before the parole board in four weeks. 
 You think they'll let him out? 
 Oh, yeah, I'm sure they'll want to release a major Mafia figure who's now totally deranged on top of it. 
 (thinks) Well, couldn't you release him to    a halfway house or some place where    he could get some decent treatment? Based on my earlier work with him,    I don't think he's dangerous, and I think he was making a real effort    to reform himself. 
 You do, huh? (thinks for a long moment) Okay. Then I'll tell you what. I'm gonna release him into your custody. 
 Mine? Me? No, this is a bad time for me. My father just died -- and I've got this bulging disc in my neck -- and we're redecorating, which is a total nightmare. I can't -- 
 You want to see him killed in prison? 
 No, of course not. 
 Or sent to a facility for the criminally insane. 
 No -- 
 Then he's all yours. I'm going to talk to the Bureau of Prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal institution. 
 (stricken) What?    I can't be an institution. 
 (firm) You've got thirty days to get him in shape for his parole hearing. That means sane, sober and gainfully employed. But let me warn you, Doctor. If he fucks up in any way -- if he flees, or if I find out that this whole thing was just a setup so he could get back on the street and return to a life of crime -- I will hold you totally responsible, and I'll see that you are stripped of your license and prosecuted to the full extent of the law. Are we clear? 
 (gulp) Yes.    We're clear. 
 You still want him? 
 (long beat to decide) Yes. CUT TO: EXT. SING SING - FEW DAYS LATER 
 Okay, Paul -- this way. Vitti comes out carrying an overnight bag, walking like a zombie. Ben leads him over to the car and opens the door for him. Vitti keeps walking, passing the car. 
 This way, Paul. Over here.      Here we go. Ben helps Vitti into the car.     One of Vitti's legs is still outside. 
 Leg, Paul.   Leg up. Ben lifts Vitti's leg into the car and closes the door. CUT TO: INT. CAR - MOMENTS LATER Ben STARTS the CAR and pulls away with Vitti still slumped in his seat. Once out of sight of the prison, Vitti straightens and turns on Ben, suddenly lucid. 
 (enraged) You fucking son-of-a-bitch! Where the fuck do you get off sticking me with a needle? 
 I knew it! I knew you were faking! You used me to get you out of prison! 
 Took you long enough. I was singin' West Side Story for three fuckin' days. I'm half a fag already. 
 What are you talking about? 
 I call you to say somebody's trying to kill me and you hang up on me? 
 I was at the funeral home! 
 You're my fuckin' doctor! 
 My father died! 
 Me me me me!   He's dead!   Get over it. 
 Are you hearing yourself? 
 (perfunctorily) I'm deeply sorry for your loss. 
 Yeah, I can see how touched you are. 
 What's the difference?   You hated him anyway. 
 I loved my father. I'm feeling a lot of grief right now. 
 I'm not sensing it, but if you say so. Ben nervously pops a pill and swallows it. 
 (re:   pill) What's that? 
 Decongestant. I'm getting over a cold. All right, what's going on? Who's after you? 
 I don't know -- take your pick. Could be my old family, or could be the Rigazzis. Ever heard of Lou Rigazzi - - Lou 'The Wrench'? 
 Why "The Wrench"? 
 Because he twisted a guy's head off once. 
 Off? 
 Off. Fuckin' Calabrese -- animals. And comin' from me you know that's a big compliment. 
 I'm sure they'd be flattered.    So -- 
 The feds are really putting the pressure on. The families are fighting each other again -- what's left of 'em. It's the fall of the fuckin' Roman Empire. It's World War Three out there. 
 So what does that have to do with you? 
 They knew I was gettin' out soon and the last thing anybody wants to see is me getting into it on either side. 
 Maybe if you just explain to them -- that you're out of it now, that you're starting a new life -- 
 Yeah,   they'll probably want to throw me a   party and give me a gold watch. Trust   me -- nobody's lookin' forward to me   being out. 
 You are, aren't you? 
 Me? Oh, yeah, my future looks real fuckin' rosy. Ben can't believe what he's gotten himself into. CUT TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER 
 Want to grab your stuff? 
 I'm not gonna be here that long. Jelly's pickin' me up in an hour. 
 Paul! I don't think you understand. You're in my custody. I could get in a lot of trouble if you screw up. 
 Don't worry about it.     I'll call you tomorrow. 
 Oh, no. You want to go back to Sing Sing? Thursday's meatloaf night. I can have you back there in no time. The U.S. Attorney was very clear. You stay with me; therapy every day; you can't leave the area without permission -- 
 What are you, my father now? 
 And you    have to get a job as soon as you're    well enough, which is now. So are you    coming in with me or do I have to make    a phone call? Vitti relents and grabs his stuff from the back seat. 
 I'm comin'.    Some fuckin' life this is gonna be. He follows Ben up the stairs. CUT TO: INT. U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - LATER Chapin is conferring with another U.S. ATTORNEY, DAVIS, and Agents Miller and Cerrone. 
 You really think Vitti is crazy? 
 Yeah, he's about as crazy as I am. 
 If we can use Vitti to escalate this war, we might just end up putting them all away. 
 That's if he goes back to his old life. 
 If? People like Paul Vitti     don't change. This guy's been a     menace to society since he was twelve    years old. Being a criminal is all he    knows. Trust me. 
 He's gonna head straight for trouble. Then all we have to do is sit back and pick up the pieces. We could get twenty, maybe even thirty indictments next time the grand jury convenes. 
 (smiles) You know, Giuliani started this way. 
 You running for mayor? 
 Could happen.     Just stick with Vitti. CUT TO: INT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER Ben and Laura are in the kitchen, cleaning up the dinner dishes. Ben is wearing an apron that says "To Heck with Housework!" and a pair of Playtex rubber gloves. Laura is angrily muscling dishes around. 
 How could you? How could you bring him here? That -- (shuddering) -- mobster -- in my home -- eating off my dishes. 
 I didn't have a lot of choice. 
 Oh, there's a law that says you have to bring a gangster home? 
 I told you. He's in my custody.      I'm a federal institution. 
 You should be in an institution.     Why couldn't he just go home? 
 His wife and kids aren't here. They're in Ohio. 
 Ohio! Sure. Everyone gets to be in Ohio except me. 
 His life was threatened and he didn't want to endanger his family. 
 How thoughtful! What about endangering our family? (worried) I think my teeth are loose.     Feel my teeth. 
 Honey, your teeth are fine. I know it's an imposition, but what could I do? I didn't want him here. They - 
 You didn't want him, I didn't want him, but here he is! She looks up and jumps when she sees Vitti standing there. 
 (covering, cheerful) Here he is! 
 Coffee? 
 What? 
 Somebody said something about coffee. 
 That was you.    You said you wanted some. 
 So what's the holdup? 
 (to Ben) Why don't you make your friend some coffee. I'm going upstairs to take a long bath and hopefully drown. Laura smiles at the two men, then exits. 
 You'll have to forgive her.     She's usually a great hostess. 
 I understand. She's uncomfortable. The whole situation's a little awkward with me bein' here -- but let's face it, Emily fuckin' Post she's not. 
 Emily fuckin' Post. Well, that explains why she rarely used her middle name. 
 Listen, I got a friend coming over.     I didn't want you to be surprised. 
 What    kind of friend? Because if it's 'The    Wrench,' or 'The Power Drill' or any    other kind of tool    -- 
 Not that kind of friend.     It's a personal thing. 
 They won't stay late, will they? 
 (stares at him) Are you really that pussy-whipped? 
 I'm not -- this has nothing to do with Laura. 
 I heard her busting your balls. 
 We were having a disagreement. A certain amount of conflict is normal in a marriage. 
 Or? 
 Or what? 
 Or you're pussy-whipped. 
 Paul -- 
 Good night, Whippy. 
 (calls after him) Remember, this is only temporary. 
 Oh, really? I didn't hear you the tenth fuckin' time. He exits. CUT TO: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER Ben knocks on Michael's door and walks in without waiting to be asked. CUT TO: INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION Michael is sitting up in bed reading. 
 (oblivious) Mike, can we talk for a second? 
 Sure.     What? 
 I know the last few weeks have been kind of tough with Grandpa -- dying and everything -- and it might've felt to you like I didn't have time for you or I didn't care about how you feel. 
 No, it didn't. 
 Good. Because I want you to know that you can talk to me about stuff and that I can really listen and understand what you're going through. 
 I do, Dad. 
 And if I seemed a little hard on Grandpa, it's just that your grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways. He wanted everything done his way and sometimes I just felt like nothing I ever did was good enough. I don't want it to be that way with us. 
 It's not. 
 And you know, at times like this we all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you'd be if I died. Right? 
 No.   Not really. 
 That's good. Good talk. And I realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary, okay? 
 Oh, really? I didn't hear you the tenth fuckin' time. 
 That's not funny.   Good night, Michael. 
 Good night, Whippy. 
 I gotta get home. What was that about? 
 I have no idea. Parenting stuff. CUT TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - NIGHT The suburban street is dark and quiet and all the lights are off in the house. 
 (V.O.) Ohhhhh!   Ohhhhh, Paul! 
 (O.S.) Ohhhh, God!   Oh, oh, oh, oh! 
 This has to be some kind of record, don't you think? It's been like forty minutes. 
 How long are you going to let them go on? 
 Let them? How much longer can he go? Another twenty minutes, I'm either breaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records. The MOANING shifts into low gear, more guttural and bestial. 
 Oh, give me a break.    She's got to be 
 (suggestively) That's not entirely true. 
 Okay, sometimes you do sound like that. The O.S. MOANING kicks up another notch. Laura rolls over and jams her pillow over her ears. Ben growls, exasperated. 
 (O.S.) (high-pitched now) Ah, ah, ah, ah...! CUT TO: 
 Oh, come on.    Nobody sounds like that. CUT TO: 
 What? 
 (indignant) I have a 17-year-old son. 
 So let him get his own fuckin' girl. 
 Can I talk to you, please? 
 Actually, I'm right in the middle of someone. Sheila starts to light a cigarette. 
 Miss? Excuse me.     There's no smoking in this house. 
 What do you think you're doing? 
 Minding my own fuckin' business, like you should be doin'. 
 Well, it's a little hard with the live sex show going on in the guest room. 
 I've been in prison for two and a half years. What am I supposed to do? 
 Go to a hotel. 
 That's what I wanted to do, but you told me I had no choice -- it was either here or Sing Sing. 
 I'm not trying to punish you. These aren't my rules, but I have a responsibility here. Besides, I thought you might like a nice home- cooked meal after being in prison that long. 
 Yeah, that's what I've been jerkin' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights -- a nice home- cooked meal. (making a jerking motion) Ohhhh, tuna casserole. 
 That girl is not staying here. 
 I think you're jealous. 
 Oh, yeah, I'm really jealous. 
 I didn't hear nothin' comin' out of your room. 
 We don't think it's necessary to wake the neighbors every time we have sex. 
 Hey, if you're really quiet, you might be able to do it without even wakin' up your wife. 
 (O.S.) (moaning) Ohhh.   Ohhh. Ben looks curiously at Vitti. 
 I told her if I wasn't back in two minutes to start without me. I gotta go. Vitti heads back upstairs. 
 This is not a good start, Paul. CUT TO: INT. DINING AREA - NEXT MORNING Laura and Ben are hosting a brunch for the out-of-town relatives. Laura offers a basket of bagels to a seated, older woman. 
 Aunt Ester, I'm so sorry we had to put you up at the hotel. We wanted you here with us, but we had an unexpected house guest. She glares at Ben. 
 (sighs) Your father always had room for us. 
 I'm sorry. (mutters to Laura) Next time I lose a parent, I'll be sure to reserve the guest room. A DOOR SLAMS somewhere, then Sheila storms into the room sobbing, her hair askew, tucking her blouse into her skirt. 
 (screaming) Go to hell, Paul! You just go to hell! 
 (O.S.) Go ahead! Get out of here, you crazy fuckin' whore. Vitti charges into the room, his robe open. From the reactions of everyone in the room, it's clear he's not wearing anything under it. 
 Go back to turning tricks in Jersey for all I fuckin' care. Sheila exits and slams the front door.   Vitti sees everyone staring at him. He closes his robe. 
 How's it goin'? (sees buffet) Oh, we got food. Good. Vitti heads for the buffet. 
 (smiling) Ben? 
 (quickly) Paul? 
 Oh, great. Jew food. Who do you have to fuck to get some bacon around here? The woman reacts in horror. 
 Not you, I'm guessing. 
 (snags Vitti's arm) Why don't we go to my office?   I'll make you a plate. CUT TO: INT.'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER Ben and Vitti enter.   Vitti still in his robe. 
 What is it with your relatives?   They tend to overreact quite a bit. 
 I know. All you did was flash everybody in the dining room. 
 So? From the look of 'em, some of those broads haven't seen the old salcicc' in a long time. It's good for them. 
 Well, when the paramedics revive my Aunt Goldie, I'll be sure to ask her. Sit. Vitti starts for Ben's chair. 
 Ah ah ah! He points Vitti to the sofa and takes his own chair. 
 So what are you going to do, Paul? 
 What do you mean? 
 With your life. 
 First I'm gonna find out who's tryin' to kill me. I'm a target. Somebody could shoot right through that window -- blow my fuckin' head off. Ben sees that he's in the line of fire, gets up and moves out of the way. 
 Okay, that's a priority. Have you thought about what you're going to do for work? 
 Yeah. I'm too big for a jockey so I was thinkin' maybe a hairdresser. They'll call me Mr. Paul. 
 Come on. There must be something you like to do. 
 I like hitting a guy on the head with a baseball bat. 
 Oh, sporting goods. We'll check the want ads tomorrow but don't get your hopes up. Anything else? 
 Shylocking, bookmaking, unions, the usual -- 
 Who are you? 
 Who am I? I'm the guy who's paying you $150 an hour to play these stupid fuckin' games. You know who I am. 
 I know that.   I mean what are you? 
 What do you mean, 'What am I?' 
 I just want to know how you see yourself. 
 You're making me very fuckin' nervous. 
 Just answer the question.     What are you? 
 (shrugs) I'm the boss. 
 Really? The boss of what -- Jelly? You're not the boss of me. So what are you the boss of? 
 You, you're good. I see what you're doing here. 
 What am I doing, Paul? 
 You're pissing me off is what you're doing. Look at me. It's starting again, the anxiety. 
 I understand. 
 BEN (CONT'D) You've    spent your whole life becoming who you    are and now you can't be that anymore    -- that's gotta be scary. If you're    not Paul Vitti the mob boss, who are    you? Vitti is at a loss. 
 Well, let's think. When you were a kid, What did you want to be? 
 I don't know.    Who remembers that stuff? 
 You must've wanted to be something when you were little -- fireman? 
 No. 
 Baseball player? 
 No. 
 Astronaut? 
 No. 
 Al Capone? 
 Yeah, maybe.    What did you want to be? 
 We're not talking about me. 
 I am. 
 Fine.   I wanted to be a philatelist. 
 You wanted to look up people's assholes all day? 
 No, Paul, I believe you're thinking of a proctologist. I wanted to collect rare and unusual stamps. 
 You must've been a lot of laughs when you were a kid. Lonely, huh? 
 Oh yeah. Big time.      So what did you want to be? 
 It's stupid. 
 You afraid to tell me? 
 Yeah, I'm afraid. 
 Then tell me.    I'm not here to judge you. 
 (a beat) Okay. When I was really little -- like seven or eight -- maybe I wanted to be a cowboy. 
 A cowboy.   Really? 
 Yeah. My father gave   me a cowboy suit -- you know, the  vest, the chaps, the cap guns --  the whole thing. And he used to   take me up to my uncle's farm in  New Jersey and lead me around on  this pony. Yippee-i-o. You happy   now? 
 So you watched cowboy movies and TV shows with your father. 
 Everybody. The whole family.     My father loved 'Gunsmoke.' 
 Sheriff Dillon. 
 (corrects him) Marshal Dillon. 
 Marshal.    So who were your favorite cowboys? 
 This is so fuckin' retarded. 
 Paul! 
 All right. Gene Autry, Roy Rogers, the Lone Ranger -- 
 Interesting.   They're all good guys. 
 Yeah, I guess. 
 No, that's important. You didn't want to be the bad guy. You wanted to be the hero. 
 Yeah, so? 
 So what happened? 
 I don't know.    Nothing happened. 
 So why didn't you become a cowboy? 
 I lived in East Harlem! I joined a street gang when I was 12 and that was it. 
 Something else happened when you were twelve. 
 What? 
 (prompting) Something that made you very sad? 
 The Dodgers moved from Brooklyn to L.A. Everybody took it pretty hard. 
 Something else. 
 We playin' a guessing game here? 
 Paul! Your father was murdered! Right in front of you. Remember? 
 Do I remember? I think about it every fuckin' day of my life. What's that got to do with it? 
 It's got everything   to do with it. He gave you the cowboy   suit. With a white hat. He was    in the mob, but he wanted you to be a   good guy, didn't he? Vitti starts thinking about his father and starts to weep. 
 Yeah.   He did. 
 He didn't want you in the gang life. He only did it himself so you wouldn't have to. He was trying to buy you a better life than his. 
 (crying harder) He always said he wanted me to go to college. I didn't even finish high school. He really starts sobbing now. 
 Well, Paul, this could be a  great opportunity for you. You're   right back where you were when you  were twelve. You've got some big   choices to make. Vitti fights to regain control. 
 Okay.   Okay.   That's enough of that shit. 
 It's not shit, Paul. My point is, when you're a child, you think anything is possible. Wouldn't it be great to think like that now? 
 (retreating back into his cynicism) Yeah, just sprinkle some fuckin' fairy dust on me. 
 I'm just saying you've got to keep an open mind and explore some new possibilities. Try some different things -- maybe you'll connect with one of them. There's a career counselor I work with. I can call him for you. He may be able to help you find a job. 
 You mean working for somebody? I'm supposed to take orders from some guy who used to get me coffee? (starts sweating and 
 How do you know unless you try? Suddenly one of the WINDOWS behind Vitti SHATTERS. Ben dives for cover. Silence -- then another RAP on the window. Ben looks out and sees JELLY in the back yard, tossing stones at the window. 
 Really. (noting mountain of food on his plate) More smoked salmon? Don't be shy. Ben enters. 
 Jelly -- what are you doing here? JELLY Makin' new friends. How's it going, Doc? I brought some clothes for Mr. Vitti. 
 (indicating the door) Ben? 
 That's great, Jelly. I'd love to catch up with you -- outside. 
 (trying to be pleasant) And you, Jelly -- you look -- (can't find words for how he looks) Did you get a haircut? I thought you were in prison. JELLY It would appear not. 
 How'd you get out? JELLY New trial. The evidence in my first trail was, you know, tainted. Turns out two of the witnesses against me changed their minds -- and the third one, he died after a short illness. 
 What did he have? JELLY Gunshot wound to the head. 
 That's not an illness. 
 (to Vitti) Where are you going? 
 I got stuff to do. 
 What kind of stuff? 
 (as he gets into the car) Calm down. I'll be back. 
 You can't leave without my permission. 
 Oh, yeah?   Watch me.   Drive, Jelly. 
 That's it, Paul. I forbid you to go. 
 Stop sweating, Doc.     I'll be back. Vitti puts the window up. 
 (shouts anxiously) If you screw this up, Paul -- Paul! The car pulls away. 
 (angrily) Shit!   Shit, shit, shit! Ben turns and sees his Aunt Goldie on the porch. 
 So, the fat one -- he's single? CUT TO: 
 Paulie, great to see you! You're lookin' good, kid. Lookin' very good. Jelly, how are ya? Vitti embraces him and they sit down with the others. 
 So, Paul, we heard you had some trouble while you were away. Some 'mental' problems. 
 No, I'm okay. It was an act. I had to pretend I was nuts. There were people watching me all the time. 
 Little people? 
 Doctors. They never woulda let me out if they thought I was normal. 
 So you ain't crazy? 
 You want to see crazy? Just tell me who's trying to kill me. I'll show you crazy. 
 We're in a war, Paul -- nobody's safe right now. The Rigazzis are walkin' all over us. We got next to nothing coming in, and I don't have to tell you, you don't buy a lot of muscle without money these days. We need you, Paul. The family needs you. 
 I can't do it, Sal.   I'm out of it. 
 Come on, Paulie. Nobody used to do the big jobs like you. Air France-- they're still talkin' about it. 
 Sal, even if I wanted to -- the feds 
 After your father died, I always treated you like my own son. You know that. 
 I know. 
 He was a good man. I still miss him. 
 Yeah, I do too. 
 So you'll think about it.    For me, Paulie? 
 Yeah, okay, I'll think about it. 
 (brightening) Hey, what is this -- a fuckin' funeral here? You just got back from college for Chrissakes. We should be havin' a party for you. (to bartender) Hey, Nino, give everybody a round here. We gotta drink to Paul. 
 I can't, Sal.    I gotta go talk to the boss. 
 I understand. No problem. It's good to have you back, Paul. (embraces him) Don't forget what I said. We're countin' on you. Vitti gives his old friend a pat on the back and exits. CUT TO: EXT. LOPRESTI HOUSE - SAME MORNING Jelly pulls up, Vitti gets out and strides up to the front door of a nice home on Staten Island and RINGS the BELL. CUT TO: 
 Yeah, what? 
 'Yeah, what?'    That's how you answer the door? 
 You got a problem with that? 
 Yeah. Vitti punches Eddie in the mouth, sending him sprawling back into the living room. Several other bodyguards are watching television, caught off guard by Vitti's sudden entrance. 
 Where is she? 
 (O.S.) (calls out) In the kitchen, Paul. CUT TO: INT.'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS ACTION Vitti enters. LOPRESTI, mid-forties, still sexy even in an apron, is mixing cake batter in a bowl with an electric mixer. 
 Paul -- what a nice surprise. 
 How's it goin', Patty? 
 Good.   It's good. Give me a kiss, you. Patty hugs and kisses him, taking the opportunity to pat him down for a weapon or a hidden wire. 
 Sorry to hear about Carmine.     He was a good man. 
 Yeah. You live with a person twenty- one years, then one day they're 
 I'll bet -- especially with all the talk about you being the one who put him there. 
 That's why I try not to gossip, Paul. It's ugly. Just a sec. (screaming to ceiling) Michelle! Teresa! It's ten-thirty! Stop fucking around and get ready for ballet! (to Vitti) It's hard being a single parent and a career woman. 
 Yeah, I'm sure you're very busy. 
 The pressure -- it's awful. For instance, a lot of people think, now that you're out, you're going to try and take the family back from me. But I said, no, Paul would never do that. (smiling) By the way, how are Marie and the kids? Still in Ohio? In Shaker Heights? At 1356 Locust? Vitti explodes, reaches across the counter and grabs her by the shoulders. 
 (enraged) You even go near them, you crazy bitch -- 
 (quietly) Don't make me call my guys in. You may need the shit kicked out of you, but not in here. I just mopped. Vitti lets her go. 
 (smoothing clothes, flushed and a little excited) Wow.   Have you been working out? 
 Yeah, I been workin' out who's trying 
 It's a dog-eat-dog world out there. Nobody's gonna be safe unless we can end this thing with the Rigazzis. 
 So then you didn't have nothin' to do with it. 
 (hurt) Oh, Paul. You actually think I would kill you? All the years we've known each other -- the Christmas parties, the fun times at the beach. It wouldn't be right. I want us to be friends. (smiles demurely) Who knows? Maybe we'll be more than friends. Want to lick my beaters? She holds the beaters out to him. 
 (declining) Thanks. I gotta see a guy about a business thing. 
 What kind of business? You know, if you get something going, we would expect some kind of consideration -- a little taste. 
 No, this is a legitimate business. 
 (shudders) Oh, Paul. I just got a chill. 
 I just want to be left alone.   Put my life back together -- straight  up this time. Put the word out, will   ya? Nobody's got nothin' to worry  about from me. 
 Sure, Paul.    I understand. He heads for the door. 
 (calls after him) Don't be a stranger! 
 (turning to Eddie) Watch him like a hawk. If he steps out of line, it would break my heart, but shoot him in the fuckin' head. 
 Look at the size of that trunk. You could fit three people in there. (off their shocked looks) Not people -- suitcases. It's a joke. 
 So what are you driving now? MR. MacINERNY We have a Lexus. 
 (nods) It's a fancy Toyota, right? The Japs make good cars, but I ain't that quick to forget Pearl Harbor. The MacInernys look doubtful. CUT TO: INT. MORETTI'S STEAK HOUSE - NIGHT A crowd of well-heeled New Yorkers surround Vitti at the captain's station. Vitti, the new host, greets a prominent sports figure who embraces him like an old friend. 
 (signals the MAITRE D') Mario, put Mr. Torre at table five. JOEY BOOTS, an old acquaintance of Vitti's, enters with a couple of his cronies. 
 Paul, I heard you were out. 
 Hey, Joey. 
 All dressed up for dinner, huh? 
 Yeah. 
 D' Paul, that table for six is ready. You can send them back. 
 You're working here? 
 (dying) Nah -- not really. It's like -- I'm on parole, so I just -- I come in, I greet people. 
 Okay. I get it. Nice seein' you, Paul. Don't want to hold you up. You got people to seat. Joey and his guys walk away, they turn back and glance at Vitti, then whisper something in audible to each other and laugh. Vitti burns, humiliated. CUT TO: FLASH PHOTO Vitti poses for a picture with some notables. CUT TO: ANOTHER PHOTO Vitti with some Broadway actors. CUT TO: 
 Thanks, Paul.    Appreciate it. 
 Hey, could you get us a big bottle of Pellegrino and another round of drinks? 
 And more bread when you get a chance. 
 You want more bread? He takes a small loaf from the breadbasket on the next table, stuffs it into the Businessman's mouth and walks off. 
 I'll get your drinks now. 
 This stone is supposed to be a 'G' color, but it looks kind of yellow, doesn't it? 
 (distracted) Fluorescent light. Makes everything look yellow. He starts instinctively casing the store. QUICK CUT TO: ARMED SECURITY GUARD 
 I thought fluorescent light makes everything look blue? 
 (sweating) What am I -- Edison?    I'm telling you, it's a 'G.' He glances at the surveillance cameras. 
 Can I look at it with a lens? CUT TO: 
 (completely distracted) What? 
 A lens.    Do you have a lens? CUT TO: 
 FANTASY - SAFE in the back as it BLOWS UP. END FANTASY. 
 Ben's cousin, approaches Vitti who is now hyperventilating. 
 Are you all right? 
 I'm gonna do us both a big favor.    I quit. CUT BACK TO: INT. CAR DEALERSHIP - DAY The MacInernys are trembling. 
 You want to see the manager? (grabs his crotch) Here's the manager. Now take a hike, you fuckin' deadbeats. The MacInernys rush out of the showroom. 
 (calls after them) Get a Hyundai! CUT TO: 
 (distraught) I can't deal with this shit. My grades suck, I'm gettin' in fights every day, and if I get suspended again my mother's gonna fuckin' kill me -- if the nuns don't kill me first. 
 is listening to Vitti, but dressed as Sigmund Freud. 
 (nodding) Eins, zwei, drei! 
 What?'S MOTHER is sitting next to him. 
 VITTI'S MOTHER (elbows him) Sit up straight! Pay attention when the doctor talks to you. This is costing money. Ben (Freud) has a large TAXI METER TICKING away beside him. 
 Ma?   What are you doin' here? 
 BEN (FREUD) (snorts some cocaine) Acht gemacht gehunden nicht. 
 VITTI'S MOTHER I tell him the same thing. Suddenly, the WINDOWS are SHATTERED by GUNFIRE. 
 BLASTS open, flying off the hinges. Jelly enters, pushed into the room by a gang of thugs, led by Patty LoPresti, Eddie DeVol and his guys, all at least ten-feet-tall and all holding huge guns. 
 leaps to his feet and reaches for his gun, but instead pulls out a long sword. Confused but desperate, he holds up the sword to menace the intruders, but the sword suddenly goes limp. He tries to make the blade stand up, but it just keeps dropping like a piece of soft rope. Patty, Eddie, and the thugs laugh contemptuously at Vitti, while Jelly looks on with an incredible stream of tears pouring from his eyes. END DREAM SEQUENCE. CUT TO: 
 Now in here, I thought we'd get rid of the wallpaper and maybe put in some wainscoting -- She sees Vitti and quickly steers the decorator back outside. 
 (to decorator) Don't look, don't look. 
 Do you realize it's almost noon? 
 Really? Do me a favor, honey -- make me a sandwich. 
 You want a sandwich? Make it yourself. I'm not afraid of you, Mr. Oh-I'm-A-Great-Big-Mobster Man. I want you out of my house. 
 LAURA (CONT'D) I've had   it with the bathrobe and the skulking   around and the girlfriend who, I'm   sorry, is so obviously faking it's not   even funny. Enough! 
 Coulda had that sandwich made by now. 
 (tries new tack) Okay. You don't like me and I don't like you. We can at least agree on that, right? 
 Okay. 
 I'm going to be honest with you -- I'm a very anxious person -- 
 Hey!    Me, too. 
 We have so much in common. Anyway, this is not helping me, it's not helping my marriage, and I know Ben really needs some alone time. So I'm asking you -- as a human being -- could you please leave? (off Vitti's look) Yes, I'll make you a sandwich. 
 Ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, mayonnaise, no onion. 
 (concerned) Where are you going? 
 Where am I going? The orphanage found my real parents. They want me back. (to Jelly) Put those in the car. (to Ben) I'm goin' to Jelly's. Jelly carries the luggage to his car parked in the driveway. 
 (to Vitti) The hell you are. You're supposed to be in my custody. We have therapy today. 
 For what? The more we talk the worse I get. I had that dream again. 
 The one where you're Mussolini? 
 No, the other one. 
 The limp sword dream? JELLY (at car) I probably shouldn't be listening to this. 
 So don't! JELLY Sorry. 
 (to Vitti) Do you think this dream might be sexual? 
 I know what you're thinkin'. The sword is my cock and I can't get it up, but that ain't it. I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from. 
 (winces) I don't want to know that. 
 You coulda hung wet towels on it. JELLY (calls out) He's like a racehorse in that area. 
 Okay!   I get it. 
 (to  Jelly) Wait in the  car! (to  Ben) So what does  it mean? Ben sits on the wicker divan. 
 Sex can represent a lot of things. In your case I think it's about performance anxiety. Trying to find a job that fits. 
 Doc -- nothing's gonna fit. That nine-to-five bullshit -- I'll fuckin' kill myself if I have to do that for the rest of my life. You know they take taxes out of your check? What the fuck is that? I'm doomed. I'm gonna end up selling hot dogs on the street. (starts breathing hard and sweating) Look at me. I'm havin' a fuckin' panic attack here. My heart's beatin' like a rabbit. 
 You're hyperventilating. 
 Breathe into this. Vitti sits on a wicker chair. 
 (speaks through bag) This is your fault. 
 Excuse me? 
 Tellin' me I have to get a job like I'm some fuckin' nobody. It was humiliating! Thanks a lot. 
 (jumps up, in a total rage) Hey, I'm doing the best I can!     If you can't appreciate that, or if my    best isn't good enough for you, then    maybe you should find somebody else to    talk to, you selfish prick! Ben breaks down and cries what amounts to one racking sob, then quickly pulls himself together. 
 Sorry. 
 What the hell was that? 
 I'm fine.    I'm grieving.   It's a process. Ben takes a pill bottle out of his pocket and pops a couple of pills. 
 Now what are you takin'? 
 Echinacea and goldenseal. Do you know the TV show 'Little Caesar'? 
 Yeah, I know it. 
 The producer of that show is a man 
 For what? 
 Meet him and find out. CUT TO: 
 We finally got him out of the house -- why are we having dinner with him? I mean, how professional is that? 
 This is not social. Paul's meeting a television producer who might have a job for him. He's nervous and wants me here as a buffer. I'm a buffer, that's all. 
 He's a grown man. I don't see why he needs a chaperone. 
 He doesn't. He needs a buffer.    I'm here in buffer capacity only. 
 Ben, if you say 'buffer' one more time -- Ben pops a couple of pills. 
 Didn't you just take two of those? 
 No, that was something else. 
 Well, you better not drink anything. You know what happens. 
 Laura? I'm a doctor?     I think I know what I'm doing. 
 (quietly, behind her back) Buffer. CUT TO: INT. FBI CAR - SAME TIME Cerrone and Miller watch the front of the restaurant. 
 (into radio) They're all inside. We're going to get something to eat. We'll be back before they finish dinner. They drive off. CUT TO: INT. NOGO RESTAURANT - LATER Seated at a table are Ben and    Laura, Vitti and Sheila, Jelly, and the producer RAOUL BERMAN    and his uptight, downtown GIRLFRIEND. Jelly inspects a     piece of raw octopus, while Raoul gushes over a platter of    sushi and sashimi. 
 I adore this place. Best sushi in town. Have you tried the yellowtail, Paul? Raoul picks up a floppy piece of raw fish with his chopsticks. 
 (makes a face) No. We gettin' any real food?     This is like eatin' fuckin' bait. Raoul chuckles and glances uncomfortably at his girlfriend. Ben laughs loudly to cover the awkward moment. He's suffering from some reaction between the pills and the booze and he's oddly thick-lipped. 
 Bait! That's funny. Honey, did you hear what Paul just said? He said this is like eating bait. 
 (not amused) I heard him. And I think it was 'effing bait.' 
 Why you talkin' like that? 
 Like what? 
 Like a fuckin' retard. 
 (pointing to his lower lip) Oh -- this? I took a couple ibuprofen before we got here -- I shouldn't have had the saki. I'll be fine. It only lasts a couple hours. (to Raoul) Rah-oo. Row. Rowl. I guess you need both lips for that name. You know what I love about Paul? He was born without a filter. He says exactly what he's thinking -- just lays it right out there. He doesn't edit himself. 
 (quietly) You wanna shut the fuck up? 
 See? He just told me to shut the fuck up. No filter. I love that. (to Raoul) Isn't he great? 
 (aside to Ben) Too much buffering. Way too much. 
 (eyeing Ben oddly) Yes. Paul, I'm such a huge fan of yours -- not a fan, but you know, an admirer. 
 Don't admire me too much. 
 Is there any chance you might be interested in working on 'Little Caesar' as a consultant? Give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true -- 
 Wow. That would be incredible. Did you hear that, Paul? Raoul wants to know if you'd be interested in working on his show as a consultant. You know, give technical advice, coach the actors -- 
 (quietly to Ben) In two seconds I'm gonna put a fork in your eye. 
 (suddenly cowed) Got it. 
 So what do you think, Paul? 
 Yeah, sure, whatever. 
 Fantastic! 
 This is so exciting. Mr. Berman, I love your show. Anthony Bella, the guy who plays Nicky Caesar -- I think he grew up in Bensonhurst next door to my cousin's friend's husband. 
 That's her claim to fame. (to Sheila) I hate to bust your bubble, but he's not from Bensonhurst. He's a professional Italian. He grew up in Connecticut or something like that. 
 Well, wherever he's from, I think he's a wonderful actor. JELLY Yeah, I bet he gets a lot of pussy. Laura chokes on her drink. 
 What's the matter with you?   We got women at the table. JELLY You said 'fuckin'.' 
 That's different. It's colorful. 
 Hey, speaking of colorful -- this peacock walks into a bar -- 
 Oh, my god. (to a passing waiter, rising her half-empty drink) Could I get another one, please? 
 And one for me. 
 No.    No more for the Buffer. She glares at Ben as the table descends into silence. 
 (tries a desperate save) So. I see in the paper where Oklahoma! might win the Tony award. 
 (shouts) Down!!! He grabs Sheila and pulls her down as GUNFIRE rakes the wall behind them. Everybody else at the table hits the floor. Other diners scream in terror.    Jelly pulls a GUN and SHOOTS back. 
 A runs from the restaurant. After a long beat, the frightened patrons start to get up and chatter nervously. 
 BEN'S TABLE Nobody's hurt.   Vitti helps Sheila to her feet. 
 (to Vitti) What the hell was that? 
 I think somebody's got it in for Raoul. 
 (wide-eyed) Holy fucking shit. (grinning) That was phenomenal! CUT TO: EXT. MIDTOWN STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT 
 Where's your cigarette? JELLY I'm trying to cut down. The Gunman recognizes Jelly and desperately reaches for the gun in his pocket, but Jelly hauls off and whacks the guy across the back of the head with a sap. As  he slumps into Jelly's arms, Vitti steps out of a doorway and Jelly drags the gunman into the garage. CUT TO: INT. SOBEL HOUSE - SAME TIME Ben and Laura are getting ready for bed. 
 I don't know why you feel you have to save this man. 
 It's my job.   He needs me. 
 So that automatically means you have to help him? You're always doing this -- putting other people's needs ahead of your own, like you're this martyr or saint or something. It's like living with Mother Teresa. 
 Actually, I hear she was tough to live with. Lot of parties, loud music -- lepers. 
 You don't need this in your life -- especially not now. You really need to be grieving for your father. 
 I am. 
 Really?   I haven't seen it. 
 Well, you know, it's a process. I mean, we had issues -- there's some anger -- but I'll work it out. Laura goes to Ben and embraces him. 
 It's okay, honey. You can let it go. 
 No, I'm -- it's okay. Ben sits heavily on the bed. 
 It's just a confusing time. I became a therapist because he was a therapist, so obviously his approval was very important to me. But is that the only reason I did it? I don't know. And now that he's gone, why do I keep doing it? Is this what I really want? She sits next to him and takes his hand. 
 I just want you to be happy. She kisses him. 
 Maybe you're right. (kisses her) Maybe it's time I started focusing on me, and, you know, satisfying some of 
 (apologetic) Oh, honey, I just brushed my teeth. 
 No, that's not what I meant.     I just need -- (at a loss) I don't know what. She puts her arms around him and holds him. CUT TO: EXT. ROOFTOP - LATER THAT NIGHT Vitti and Jelly stand with the Gunman on the roof of the parking garage, four stories above the ground. The guy's arms are bound. Jelly ties a rope around his ankles. 
 I'm gonna ask you once nicely.     Who you working for? 
 Fuck you. 
 Fuck me?    Fine. Jelly? Jelly shoves the guy to the parapet at the edge of the roof, grabs him by the legs and hangs him over the side of the building. The guy screams. 
 I'll ask you again.     Who you working for? The guy keeps screaming. JELLY He's screamin' too loud.     Hold on a second. Jelly swings the guy against the building, hitting his head and dazing him momentarily. JELLY Go ahead. 
 Who are you working for? 
 Nobody! 
 Drop him, Jelly. 
 Okay! Okay!    Rigazzi!   I'm working for Rigazzi! 
 Pull him back up. 
 What's the matter with you? JELLY You said drop him. 
 I said pull him back up. 
 You heard what you wanted to hear. JELLY Okay, you got me there. CUT TO: EXT. RIGAZZI PLUMBING AND HEATING - NEXT MORNING A "family" business in Jersey. CUT TO: INT. BACK ROOM - NEXT MORNING The light from outside barely penetrates the painted windows of the shabby office. LOU RIGAZZI, aka "Lou the Wrench," the aging boss of the Rigazzi family, sits in the half-light as a couple of his soldiers enter with the battered and hobbling Gunman between them. 
 What the hell happened to you? 
 Vitti threw me off a roof. 
 Vitti? You talked to Vitti?     What did you say to him? 
 Nothing. I didn't tell him anything. Mr. Rigazzi, can I go -- I think my leg's broken. 
 That must hurt. Rigazzi pulls out a GUN with a silencer and SHOOTS the Gunman. 
 I hate to see people in pain. (to soldiers) Get him out of here. 
 What about Vitti? 
 (musing) He's a hard man to kill. But he's not immortal. Our time will come. CUT TO: EXT. BACK-YARD SWIMMING POOL - DAY A big, family barbecue is going on in a back yard in Queens. Several children are splashing in an over-sized, above-ground swimming pool. Oddly, the children appear to be shouting and laughing but make no sound. At the barbecue, Nicky Caesar is watching his friend MELLO turn Italian sausage on the grill. 
 I like mine burnt. 
 I don't know how you like your sausage? Twenty fuckin' years we been doin' this. So you got the money? The wind shifts and blows the smoke from the barbecue in their faces. 
 (coughing, eyes watering) Not all of it. I'm still light about fifteen large. (blinded by smoke) Can we cut? This is ridiculous. 
 (O.S.) (shouts) Cut! Can you do something about the fucking smoke? 
 (to Vitti) This is the problem with shooting on location. But it's worth it for the authenticity. 
 Yeah, this is real authentic. 
 (calls out) Tony! Come here a second. (to Vitti) Anthony Bella. He plays Nicky Caesar. 
 I know who he is. They used to watch the show up at Sing Sing. 
 (delighted) Are you shitting me? ANTHONY BELLA joins them. 
 Tony, this is Paul Vitti. 
 (Australian accent) You don't have to tell me who he is. (shakes Paul's hand) It's a pleasure, mate. 
 (reacting to accent) Mate? I don't believe this! You're an English guy? You ain't even Italian. 
 Australian-Italian. We got some paisans down under. 
 Down under what? 
 (to Tony Bella) How incredible is this? Paul tells me they watch the show in Sing Sing! 
 Fantastic!    That's so fuckin' great. 
 I wouldn't wet my pants over it.      They watch 'Supermarket Sweep,' too. Raoul laughs hard. 
 You laugh too much. 
 So, Paul, you going to join us? Vitti looks around, his future plans now beginning to form. 
 Yeah.    You got a good setup here. 
 Great.   See you later then. He exits.   Vitti turns to Raoul. 
 Coupla things, though. I don't know who makes these decisions, but some of this, it don't look right. 
 (concerned) I sensed it myself. Which elements strike you as wrong? 
 The people mainly. I mean, you got a boss who speaks Australian. What the fuck is that? And I'm guessing your 
 The theater, mostly. 
 Yeah, the theater. So how about if I bring in some guys that I know -- you know, more 'authentic.' 
 I would be eternally grateful. Anything else? 
 (thinks) Yeah. One of those trailers like the stars have. 
 (slight hesitation) Done. (shakes his hand) I'll put that in the works right now. He hurries off to talk to his assistant.   Jelly comes up to Vitti. 
 No fuckin' way. I've had it with this job bullshit. A week of this and I'd either shoot myself or shoot Raoul. But it's good cover while I figure out my next move. Call the guys. JELLY You got it. CUT TO: 
 Jelly and Vitti's old crew, MO-MO, BIGS, TUNA, EDDIE COKES, and eight or nine other wiseguys walk en masse into base camp. Vitti's guys go to the front of the lunch line, forcing the crew aside. A big, pop-out trailer labeled "Mr. Vitti," guarded by three of his guys. Tuna brings a lunch tray and knocks on the door. Jelly opens the door and takes the tray. Vitti conferring with Raoul and Tony Bella on the script, 
 P.A. (PRODUCTION ASSISTANT) They're ready to start shooting, Mr. Vitti. 
 Yeah, ten minutes, tell 'em. Eddie Devol, Patty LoPresti's guy, watches Vitti from a safe distance. CUT TO: EXT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY Ben comes out of the market carrying several grocery bags and a small prescription bag. Two Mafia SOLDIERS step up beside him and urge him toward a big stretch LIMO IDLING at the curb. 
 Walk this way. 
 There must be some mistake.    I didn't order a limo. 
 Get in the car. CUT TO: INT. KNIGHTS OF PALERMO - LATER Ben enters timorously, still carrying his groceries. Patty LoPresti, Masiello and a couple of other heavyweights are sitting at the table, all except Patti smoking cigars. Ben immediately recognizes their status and grasps the gravity of their mood. 
 (nervous, but trying to keep it light) Hello.   I'm Ben Sobel. And you are -- ? 
 You're the shrink who's taking care of Paul Vitti? 
 Yes, sir. That's right. (to guy with groceries) Could you be careful, because I think they put the eggs on the bottom. He drops the bags heavily onto the bar. 
 So?    Is he nuts or what? 
 Who? 
 Paulie.     Is he nuts? 
 I can't discuss a patient's case with anyone -- 
 Discuss it. 
 I'd say he's still suffering from chronic anxiety and -- He hesitates. 
 And what. 
 We call it Antisocial Personality Disorder. Sociopathy. 
 Meaning what? 
 (very carefully) Meaning -- he -- fails to conform to societal norms with respect to -- lawful behavior. 
 I'm getting a fuckin' headache here. 
 He's got a -- criminal temperament. 
 (stares at him) He's a criminal? This is news? And for that you need a doctor degree? So what are you doin' with him? 
 Well, I'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change -- 
 Wrong.   You do not want him to change. Ben looks at her, sensing her command of the group. 
 We haven't really been introduced -- 
 This is Mrs. LoPresti. 
 Patty. 
 Ben Sobel. Ben offers his hand but she ignores it. 
 Ben, Paul Vitti is important to this family. We don't want to see you turn him into a stromboni. 
 A stromboni? That thing they clean the ice with at hockey games? 
 That's a Zamboni, asshole.   Stromboni. 
 It's a bull with his balls cut off. She reaches under the table and grabs Ben's balls.    He winces in pain. 
 (squeezed) No, we don't want to do that. 
 Not unless you want to be one, too. 
 (in pain) Me? No. I'm very attached to my balls. As you can probably tell. 
 (lets go) Then do the right thing, understand? 
 (greatly relieved) Yes, I understand completely. May I go now? I have perishables -- He takes his groceries and edges away. CUT TO: INT. "LITTLE CAESAR" SET - DAY Vitti is sitting at a table with Jelly and some of his main guys. From a distance it looks like they're playing cards. Up close it's a different story. 
 We're gonna need a grapple or a crane with maybe a fifty-foot boom. 
 MO-MO I seen one -- in Bayonne -- but I'll call around. 
 See what you can come up with.   And we're gonna need a city bus. JELLY I got a guy in the Transit Authority. He owes me. Just let me know when. 
 (O.S.) Paul!   Hello! Vitti turns to see Patty, Eddie Devol and his men heading across the set. 
 I guess everybody's gone Hollywood, huh? 
 How you doin', Patty. 
 Jelly -- you're working here, too? JELLY I'm an extra. 
 An extra what? JELLY A supernumerary. An 'atmosphere.' It ain't bad. You just stand around all day waitin' for them to shoot and they pay you eighty bucks. 
 Eighty bucks? For standin' around all day? You used to sneeze eighty bucks. How much you make shootin' craps? JELLY Today?   About eight hundred maybe. 
 And how about bookin' bets for the Teamsters and the crew? 
 So eighteen hundred bucks. JELLY Plus eighty -- 
 I know -- extra. They all laugh. An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR approaches the group. 
 This is a closed set. We're about to start shooting. 
 Yeah?    So am I. Eddie grabs the Assistant Director and walks him away. CUT TO: EXT. "LITTLE CAESAR" BASE CAMP - SAME TIME 
 Should I wait here, Mr. Rigazzi? 
 No, pull the car up your ass and wait there. CUT TO: 
 I heard you had some more trouble. 
 One of Rigazzi's guys took a shot at me. She stops at the extras' makeup table and starts primping in the mirror. 
 I don't have to tell you, Paul. Alone on the street you don't stand a chance. That's what the family's all about. Since the old days, when the grandfathers first came over. That's not something you just walk away from. 
 Yeah, I know. When you're a Jet, you're a Jet all the way. 
 So you want to tell me what's going on here? It looks like you got your whole crew back together. 
 Nothing's going on.   They're actors. 
 Don't bullshit me, Paul. You're planning something. I'm feeling very left out. 
 (quietly) Okay. Something big is going down, but you're getting a cut. My hand to God. 
 You're a good friend, Paul. And I would never think of insisting on this, but I'd feel better if you brought in Eddie and some of my guys to help with the job. 
 I don't think so. 
 Then I'll have to insist. 
 Whatever. Raoul approaches and eyes Patty disdainfully. 
 Oh, dear God. First of all, sweetheart, we're not shooting the hooker scene until tomorrow. And the hair -- please, what is that? 
 Excuse me? 
 Raoul, this is a friend of mine. Patty LoPresti. Raoul freezes, recognizing the name. 
 Mrs. LoPresti -- I am so very, very Raoul wheels on a production assistant who happens to be passing by. 
 How dare you not inform me Mrs. LoPresti was on the set. You're fired! (to Patty) Enjoy your visit with us. If there's anything I can do -- 
 Go fuck yourself. 
 Immediately. Raoul moves away quickly.   Patty turns back to Vitti. 
 It's good to have you back, Paul. 
 I mean, tell me -- was she angry?    Am I in any danger? 
 No, you're fine. But you might want to have somebody else start your car the next couple of weeks. 
 I'll have Brian do it.   He's new. Rigazzi and his men join them. 
 (to Vitti) Could I talk to you for a second? 
 (eyeing Rigazzi) Oh, what is this now, the bus and truck tour of Guys and Dolls? 
 This is Lou Rigazzi. 
 (a horrified whisper) 'The Wrench.' 
 RAOUL (CONT'D) (taking Rigazzi's hand) Please, forgive me. I'm on painkillers -- half the time I don't know what I'm saying. 
 Get lost. 
 Certainly. (as he exits) Brian! Get my car! 
 (to Vitti) I need a couple minutes. 
 (nodding) This way. CUT TO: EXT. CRAFT SERVICES TABLE - MOMENTS LATER Vitti and Rigazzi stand at the table.     Rigazzi's soldiers are nearby. 
 The guy who shot at you -- he was acting on his own. I never gave an order. 
 Is that right? 
 And he's been taken care of. There won't be another incident. Unless you're thinkin' of workin' for Patty LoPresti. 
 Me?    No. 
 Good.    Then I got no beef with you. 
 Thanks.    I'll sleep much better. 
 Because   that would not be the way to go. You    want to back a winner, which is gonna   be me. It only makes sense. You come   work for us. I'll treat you right. 
 I don't think so. 
 (a beat) Well, so much for sleeping better. Rigazzi smiles and pats Vitti's cheek, then exits with his soldiers. CUT TO: INT. EXTRAS HOLDING TENT - SAME TIME Ben walks in and sees Vitti's guys sitting around. 
 Jelly, hi. (recognizing some of the others) Hey! Yo-Yo! JELLY It's Mo-Mo. 
 Right. I was thinking of the cellist. How's it going? 
 MO-MO Goin' good. I did a 'Law and Order' last week, I had a line on 'Sex and the City' -- 
 I'm up for a recurring on 'NYPD Blue.' 
 That's great.    Have you seen Paul? JELLY Yeah, I think he's in his camper. 
 His camper. CUT TO: 
 (surprised to see him) Hey, Doc. What are you doing here? 
 No, what are   you doing here? I came to tell you   we have a preliminary meeting with   your parole officer and who do I run   into? Patty LoPresti. 
 Patty who? 
 What is this -- a knock-knock joke? Patty-who-kidnapped-me-and-threatened- to-cut-off-my-balls. Stop lying to me, Paul. Your whole gang is here. 
 Who says I'm lying? I finally    get a straight job and start putting   my life in order and you come in here   and start accusing me! That's how    much you trust me? 
 (off   balance) It's not that   I don't trust you, I just don't --   trust you.   Are you lying to me?    Because I know you, Paul. You'll    say or do anything to get your own   way. 
 This is what's so hard about being an ex-con. You make one little mistake in your life and people never let you forget it. 
 Oh, so now you're the victim?    I want the truth. 
 Wait a second.    Say that again. 
 Say what? 
 'I want the truth.'   Say it -- like you did just now. 
 I want the truth? 
 No, strong, like before. 
 (forceful) I want the truth! 
 Yeah, that's good! 
 Paul -- 
 No, I'm serious. That had power. I believed it. You could be an actor. 
 I'm not an actor -- 
 Hey, you're as good as most of the bums I see around here. They have this part. You could do it. 
 Actually, I did The Music Man in tenth grade. 
 Of course.   I'm gonna talk to Raoul. 
 About being on the show?   I couldn't - - 
 No, this part you could do.   It's perfect. Believe me. CUT TO: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY (LATER) The camera rolls. 
 We're rolling. 
 Sound speed. 
 (shouts) Action! 
 
 (doubtful) Does that screaming sound real to you? 
 Oh, yeah.    That sounds real. CUT TO: 
 It's not funny! There was no safety harness or anything. They could have dropped me. 
 Hey, if you didn't want to do it, why didn't you say something? 
 I know exactly what that was about. You resent the fact that you've been put in my custody, so you passive- aggressively arranged things to make me look like a fool. 
 Come on -- you were great. 
 (turning on a dime) Really? I was scared at first, but on the second take, I think I found some good stuff. I was able to texture the screaming -- 
 Oh, screw you, Paul.   Just screw you. 
 What, are you self-medicating again? And don't give that decongestant multi-vitamin bullshit. 
 Don't worry about me. Just worry about what you're going to say to this parole officer. What are you going to say? That you've moved out of my house. That you've got your old gang back together. For what, a high school drop-out reunion? 
 I'm gonna say that's none of his fuckin' business. 
 It's my business. I want to know. I'm a federal institution. 
 (checks side- view mirror) You recognize that car? 
 Which car? 
 The one that's been following us the last mile and a half. Ben jerks his head around to look and sees a black Mercedes behind him. 
 Lose 'em. 
 What do you mean, 'lose 'em'? Vitti stomps his foot down on Ben's, flooring the accelerator. CUT TO: EXT. HOBOKEN STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION 
 Maybe I should just pull over.   It could be the F.B.I. 
 No, they're two cars back. You gotta be a little more observant, Doc. Turn left. Ben executes a hard, SKIDDING left.   The Benz stays right with him. 
 What if we just stop and get out? They're not going to shoot us in broad daylight. 
 Broad daylight's the best time. You can see better. Take a right. Now! 
 Sorry! 
 follows right behind him, then the bystanders run to pick up the cash, blocking the drive-thru, forcing Miller in the FBI car to stop. CUT BACK TO: EXT. HOBOKEN STREET - MOMENTS LATER Two police officers are parked at the curb. They hear a HORN HONKING, and turn just as Ben's car comes flying past them. The cops start to pull out but stop short as the Benz blows 
 (frantic) We can't do this, Paul!     We have to stop! This is a lease! 
 (shouting back at the Mercedes) It's a goddamn lease! 
 (looks back) Move over. I'll drive. 
 Move over?   Where? Vitti puts his left foot on the gas pedal and his left hand on the wheel. 
 Backseat.    Now! Ben tries to launch himself into the backseat but is stopped by his seat belt. 
 Seat belt. He releases the belt, then twists and crawls over the top of the driver's seat into the back, while Vitti slides into the driver's seat. CUT TO: EXT. PARKWAY - MOMENTS LATER Ben's car races past an industrial area with the Mercedes right on its tail. CUT TO: 
 (determined) Hang on. 
 It's gonna get worse? 
 They're right behind us! (shouts at them) Get away! He starts whipping things out the shattered back window -- a tennis racket, sneakers, an empty Macy's box. CUT TO: 
 What the fuck are you doing? 
 I wanted to save the crossword. 
 Throw it! Bent throws the paper out the window. 
 (aghast) You think they'll get out? 
 Yeah, that's James Bond and the 'Sea Hunt' guy in there, so they got a pretty good shot. They hear POLICE SIRENS APPROACHING. Vitti starts walking away quickly. Ben follows after him. 
 Where're you going? 
 I gotta take care of something. 
 But your parole officer -- 
 Send my regrets. 
 I'm warning you. If you leave now -- 
 So long, Doc. Vitti takes off running, ducking behind the rows of parked cars. 
 (calling after him) That's it! I'm finished! You're on your own now, pal! I'm -- POLICE CARS and the FBI CAR SCREECH into the parking lot and surround Ben. 
 (quietly) -- screwed. 
 Where is he, Dr. Sobel? 
 I wish I knew. 
 Well, considering that he's in your custody, that's not quite the answer I was looking for. He's got something big in the works. You want to tell me what you know? 
 I don't know anything. As far as I can tell, he's making a real effort to go straight. 
 Yeah, that's why I've got two corpses at the bottom of the river. He reaches through the open car window into his briefcase and pulls out a file of photographs. 
 Here. Vitti with Sal Masiello. Vitti with Patty LoPresti. Vitti with Lou Rigazzi. Let me know -- I can order some wallet size for you. I've got more than enough to put him away again without these. Violation of parole, second-degree murder here. When I really start digging, it'll be amazing 
 I'm getting that.   Can I go now? 
 You can't take your car. We're impounding it as evidence. 
 (exasperated) Then can somebody give me a ride home? 
 Yeah, the government runs a limousine service. The number is 1-800-Fuck Off. 
 I don't have a lot of time. They're probably gonna come lookin' for me, so we'll go over everything later, okay? JELLY Paul, not that I'm questioning, but what do we want with Eddie DeVol? Guy's a fuckin' scumbag. 
 Look, I'm not happy about it, but if it keeps Patty off my back, so be it. They're meeting us at the club. Let's head out. (as they all get up) Not all at once. I gotta tell you everything? A PRODUCTION ASSISTANT KNOCKS and sticks her head in the door. 
 No, I gotta go. P.A. He said it was important. 
 (annoyed) I'll talk to him tomorrow. He hands the P.A. some money. 
 Here -- tell him you couldn't find me. Vitti exits.   The P.A. looks at the money. CUT TO: EXT. MAKEUP TRAILER - LATER Vitti makes his way past the trailers, heading for his car. As he passes the makeup trailer, the door opens and Tony Bella sticks his head out. 
 Paul!   Excellent! 
 Can't really talk right now, mate. Headin' out. 
 Two seconds. Please, Paul.    It's really important. Vitti looks pissed. CUT TO: INT. MAKEUP TRAILER - MOMENTS LATER Vitti watches impatiently while the makeup artist touches up Tony Bella. 
 (script in hand) I'm looking for something to do when my character finds out he's being indicted. I was thinking of punching the wall, but I did that when they killed Uncle Lenny, and I did it again 
 Try kickin' something.   Let me know how it works out. Vitti starts for the door. 
 Wait, Paul.   That's interesting.    Like what? 
 (impatient) I don't know. You could kick a guy in the face. 
 Who? 
 (irritated) Just some guy! You knock him down, give him a couple quick kicks in the head while he's on the ground. 
 Why? 
 Why not? Because he's there and you're pissed off. 
 You've done that? 
 Maybe once or twice.   Look, I got people waiting. 
 (thinks about it, decides not) My character wouldn't do that.   What else? 
 (at a loss, getting angrier) I don't know. You could yell real loud? 
 Yell real loud? That's original. 
 (pops) Or keep your fuckin' mouth shut! Who gives a shit what you do, for cryin' out loud? Tony Bella likes something about Vitti's inflection. 
 (imitates him) Who gives a shit what you do, for cryin' out loud? 
 What are you doin'? 
 What are you doin'? 
 (irritated) Okay, you can cut that shit out right now. 
 Okay, you can cut that shit out right now. 
 (menacing) Hey, I'm serious, asshole! 
 Hey, I'm serious, asshole! CUT TO: EXT. MAKEUP TRAILER - MOMENT LATER The door flies open and Tony Bella comes flying out of the trailer backwards, hitting the pavement hard. Vitti charges out of the trailer and storms away. Tony wipes blood from under his nose. 
 That was good.     My character could do that. CUT TO: EXT. SOBEL HOUSE - LATER A cab pulls up to the house, and Ben gets out. 
 (irritated) Jelly!   Where's Paul? The guy in the suit turns.   It's Michael. 
 Michael?   What are you doing? 
 Working. 
 (pleasantly surprised) You got a job? That's great. Look how handsome you look in that suit. What's the job? 
 (reluctantly) I'm working for Mr. Vitti.   I'm his driver. 
 Oh, no, you're not! 
 You keep telling me to get a job! 
 I meant making sandwiches at the Subway, not driving a getaway car! 
 He's paying me twenty dollars an hour. 
 I don't care if he pays you two hundred an hour, you're not doing it. 
 Dad -- 
 He had no right to ask you without my permission. Where is he? 
 I can't tell you. 
 What do you mean you can't tell me? 
 I promised I'd never repeat anything I heard in the car. I took an oath. 
 You took an oath! Oh, my God!     Was there blood involved? 
 Dad, I gave my word. 
 Ben? Where've you been?    What happened to you? 
 (minimizing) I was  in a car chase. There  was a little  shooting -- not that much really  -- then they -- drove into the river.   It wasn't as bad as it sounds. 
 When is this going to end? 
 Tonight, I hope. I just have to find him and -- 
 Why? A few days ago you weren't even sure you still wanted to be a therapist. Now you're going to risk your life again for that lout. 
 Yeah, but he's an amazing lout, isn't he? I can't quit now. You know that. 
 (relents) Go.   Just don't get shot -- please? 
 I love you. They kiss.     Then Ben turns to Michael. 
 All right, where is he? 
 I can't. 
 (pops) You tell your father right now or I'll give you such a smack it won't even be funny! 
 (surprised) Okay!   I dropped him at the club. 
 What club? 
 Little Darling's in Queens. 
 Okay, Mafiaboy, give me your car keys. 
 I'm grounded? 
 No, I'm borrowing your car. He kisses Laura again and takes off. 
. CUT TO: INT. CIVIC - CONTINUOUS ACTION Ben takes out a bottle of pills. He tries to remove the child-safety cap but his hands are shaking so badly he can't do it. Frustrated, he tries to bite the cap off, then gives up and throws the bottle away. CUT TO: 
 Jelly! JELLY (yelling over music) Hey, Doc. What are you doin' here? 
 Where's Paul? Jelly tucks a few bills into her G-string.     She looks at Ben and winks suggestively. JELLY I think she likes you, Doc.     Give her a couple of bucks. Ben reluctantly digs in his pocket and holds out a bill to the stripper. 
 Can you break a twenty? The stripper sensuously fingers the top of her G-string, and Ben gingerly sticks the twenty in it. 
 Do I just make my own change? He tentatively reaches for some smaller bills in her G-string but she dances away. 
 (calls to her) A ten and five ones -- when you have the chance. He turns around to talk to Jelly, but he's already gone. Ben finds Jelly at a table with Vitti. 
 Okay, Paul, what's going on? 
 (keyed up) What are you doing here? 
 I could ask you the same thing. 
 What's it look like? We're just blowin' off a little steam. What's the big deal? 
. 
 How's it goin', Paulie? You know my guys -- Enormous Bobby and Al Pacino? 
 (looks at him) Al Pacino? That's your real name? 
 No. People call me that because I look like Al Pacino. (beat) The actor. 
 Anybody ever call you Carol Burnett? 
 No.   Why? 
 'Cause you look about as much like Carol Burnett as you look like Al Pacino. Ben laughs.   Al Pacino glares at him. 
 I do see a little Pacino there -- around the eyes. 
 So we're all here. Let's do it. He heads for the back of the club with his guys.   Vitti and Jelly start to follow. 
 (stops Vitti) Let's do what? 
 You better get out of here. 
 (lays a hand on his arm) I'm not going until you tell me what's going on here. Vitti violently shakes off Ben's hand. 
 (menacing) Don't make me hurt you.    Get the fuck out of here. He walks away leaving Ben frozen. Ben watches as they disappear through a door leading to the back of the club. He starts toward the door. CUT TO: INT. BASEMENT ROOM - MOMENTS LATER Vitti is seated at a big table in the crowded, smoke-filled room. Jelly sits at  his side. He's surrounded by his crew, about a half-a-dozen guys, and Patty's man, Eddie DeVol. Several street maps and diagrams are spread out on the table. 
 Okay, this is big and we only get one shot at it; and there's only about a million ways this fuckin' thing can go bad, so listen up. Vitti pulls a street map to the center of the table and taps a spot downtown. 
 The Federal Gold Depository in Lower Manhattan. Three times a year a shipment of gold bars goes in a heavily-guarded armored truck from the Depository to the vault at the Federal Reserve to hold for foreign governments that trade in bullion. At three o'clock in the morning -- eight hours from now --we're gonna hijack that truck. CUT TO: INT. LITTLE DARLING'S - SAME TIME Ben enters the back room of the club, looks around, and starts down the stairwell leading to the basement. 
 What the fuck is this? 
 I found this guy listening at the door. 
 (dazed) Hey, guys. How's it going? 
 Who is this guy? 
 (not looking at Eddie) Ben Sobel. Sorry, I can't move my head to the right. Boy, I hope that's not permanent. 
 Get rid of him. Al Pacino puts his gun to Ben's head. 
 (still dazed) Hi, Carol. 
 You're a dead man, asshole.    Let's go. 
 What are you doing? 
 What do you think? He can make every guy in this room. 
 Oh, I'm not into that, fellas. 
 Get your fuckin' hands off him!   He's with me. 
 What, on the job? Vitti hesitates. 
 (impatiently) Either he's in, or he's dead.    Which is it? 
 I think in is better. 
 (reluctantly) He's in. He's my responsibility. 
 (to Vitti) Okay, no more surprises. And from this moment on, no one leaves my sight. Got it? Now go through it one more time. 
 Okay -- everybody listen up. 
 Wait! (sits) Okay.    Go ahead. CUT TO: EXT. LITTLE DARLING'S - LATER THAT NIGHT Agents Cerrone and Miller watch the front of the club from their car parked across the street. 
 (yawns, checks watch) I wonder what it costs to keep that many limos waiting for three-and-a- half hours. 
 A dozen men looking like Vitti and his crew come out of the club and get into the limos. 
 (O.S.) Everybody stand by. They're leaving. The limos drive off. At the corner, the FBI car pulls out and follows at a discreet distance. CUT TO: EXT. QUEENSBOROUGH BRIDGE - NIGHT The FBI car follows the limos across the bridge into Manhattan. 
 (V.O.) (over radio) 312, all units. W.W.F. Restaurant. Times Square. The limo doors open and the passengers get out -- all nondescript nobodies. CUT TO: INT. FBI CAR - SAME TIME Miller watches intently. 
 Where's Vitti?   I don't see Vitti. Cerrone stares with the growing awareness that they've been had. 
 Damn it! 
 (extremely nervous) I could fit you under my shirt.    Don't they have anything smaller? 
 (hisses) Nobody's going to be alive when this is over. What kind of plan is this? It's crazy. It's stupid! JELLY Watch it. It may be crazy but it ain't stupid. If you want to stay alive, just keep your mouth shut, do everything I tell you and try not to pee in your pants. (quietly) Can you handle an M-16? He holds up an automatic rifle. 
 You mean shoot it? JELLY No, I mean twirl it like a fuckin' baton. How about an A.K.? 
 (exasperated) Jelly -- JELLY (rummaging through pile) Kalashnikov, MAC-10, Uzi -- stop me if I hit one you like. 
 Couldn't I just take this? JELLY Yeah, that's a good one. That gun brings back a lot of fond memories. Use it in good health. Ben puts the gun into the waistband of his dungarees, but it slips through and drops into his pants. 
 (winces) Ooh, cold -- cold. He jams his hand down the front of his pants and starts searching around in there. Eddie and Enormous Bobby stare at him as they walk by. 
 (explaining) My gun -- fell down in my -- He shakes his leg and the gun drops out of his cuff and clatters onto the floor. He smiles weakly and picks it up. Vitti approaches.    He looks agitated but under tight control. 
 (to Jelly) Check the bus. Jelly exits. 
 (quietly, to   Ben) If we can, I'm gonna   get you out before the real shit   goes down. Just don't flip out on me,   okay? 
 You are making a huge mistake.   You know that, don't you? 
 You said it yourself.   It's my nature. 
 It's not your nature!   You have a choice. 
 What are you, fucking Jiminy Cricket? I don't know what planet you live on, but here on Earth it's 'might makes right.'   Read the papers. The guys with the guns make the rules. 
 (holding up the pistol) So I guess that makes me a real man now.  What happened to the white hat, Paul?  Your father wasn't wrong. You could be one of the good guys. 
 Enough. Say one more word about my father and I'll break your fuckin' head. 
 (quietly) Okay. Vitti walks off. CUT TO: INT. BATHROOM - SAME TIME Vitti comes in, locks the door and has a full-blown panic attack -- gasping for breath, sweating, whimpering, trying to stifle his panic. Then he sees his tortured face in the mirror and starts pulling himself together. CUT TO: INT. WAREHOUSE - FEW MINUTES LATER The guys are getting into the trucks. Ben keeps letting everybody go in front of him, then starts to back away, but Eddie and Enormous Bobby come up behind him and push him up into the truck. 
 (checks his watch) I have five to three. They should start movin' any minute. 
 (looking at his watch) I have three-o-six. 
 Let's see your watch. 
 (V.O.) (filtered) They're moving! Vitti keys his radio twice as a signal and holds up his clenched fist to alert the guys on site with him. CUT TO: EXT. FEDERAL BUILDING - NIGHT A CONVOY of vehicles emerges from the bowels of the building and turns onto the street. In front and back are specially- equipped SUVs, full of heavily-armed federal marshals; an armored truck in the middle carries the gold. 
 He can hear the convoy passing outside the wall. 
 He looks down on the convoy from a vantage point on a scaffold high above the street. When the trucks are in the right position, he waves to Vitti on the ground. 
 sees the signal. 
 (on walkie) Go! CUT TO: EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS ACTION A forty-foot, flat-bed trailer truck loaded with cement conduit backs across the street and stops, blocking the path of the convoy. The lead SUV HONKS. The truck doesn't move. The CAPTAIN of the marshals gets out and walks up to the truck. The driver has slipped out the other side and disappeared. Suddenly, a huge steel claw drops down from above and closes around the top of the armored truck, its sharp points crunching into the metal sides. Then the truck starts rising off the pavement. A couple of determined marshals jump out of their vehicles, race over and grab onto the bumpers as the armored truck is lifted off the ground. CUT TO: EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - CONTINUOUS ACTION A hundred-foot tower crane lifts the truck straight up. The marshals hang on as long as they can, then prudently let go and drop heavily to the street. Two marshals are still clinging to the truck as it rises to a height of thirty feet, then swings silently over the perimeter fencing. 
 Paul, it's not too late.   Don't do this. 
 Let's go. He strides off to take charge. Ben pulls down his mask and hurries after him, but runs right into a pole. 
 Shit!   Ow! He raises his mask and scampers after Vitti rubbing the painful bump on his forehead. 
 Totally in charge, he strides up to the armored truck just as his men finish cutting through the steel plate doors. Vitti yanks the doors open.. Vitti and Ben stare in awe at the exposed contents of the truck -- a fortune in gold bars. 
 (shouts) Get the ramp! Eddie and his guys run up with a long, narrow track with metal rollers and set it up at the rear of the gold truck. 
 (very excited) You know, this might just fuckin' work. 
 You're gonna get in so much trouble. CUT TO: 
 They can't get over the wire. 
 Then knock down the gates! CUT TO: EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE The guys take the heavy bars out of the armored truck and run them quickly along the rolling track into the bus. CUT TO: 
 (pops his head in) Forty bars. That's all we need. 
 How much is that? 
 $350 an ounce, 16 ounces in a pound, 90 pounds in each bar -- do the math. JELLY (a beat) Actually, gold is measured in troy ounces. 14.6 ounces to the pound. That would be... $18,396,000. 
 Really? JELLY Give or take. He hears a LOUD CRASH and all eyes turn to the gates. 
 Well, so much for not peeing in my pants. 
 You know what you said about not flipping out? 
 Yeah? 
 Sorry. (flipping out) What did I do? What did I do? I had a perfect life, I threw it away. 
 Don't do this. Vitti drags him off toward the building structure. 
 I can't help it! My life is over! I'm going to jail. Some people can handle prison -- I'm not one of them. I have delicate features. I'm small. I'll be way too popular! 
 Calm down. 
 I can't calm down!      I'm gonna die! Inside the structure, Vitti spins him around and shakes him. 
 You're not gonna die! 
 I can't breathe! I'm suffocating! 
 (shaking him) For Chrissake, get hold of yourself! 
 I can't!   I'm dying!   We're all going to die! Suddenly, he slaps Vitti hard across the face.      They both freeze. 
 Did I just hit you? 
 Yeah.   Feel better now? 
 (breaking down) I'm sorry, Paul. I blame myself for this. I wanted to help you. I wanted to be there for you. But I just wasn't good enough. 
 You were good.  It isn't your fault. 
 No, it is. Since my father died -- (starts crying) I've lost my way. I don't know anything anymore. I mean, what's the point? I didn't think it would hit me so hard -- 
 Would you just shut up about your father! 
 I'm grieving, goddammit!    Have a little respect! 
 He was an asshole -- you said it yourself. What are you grieving for? 
 I'm grieving for myself, you fucking idiot! Ben lets it all go, sobbing for all the years of pain. 
 (surprised, shrugs) Jeez, I'm sorry. 
 Now I know how you must have felt when your father was killed. Vitti looks at him. 
 (crying more) I mean, it had to be ten times worse for you -- being murdered right in front of you. And you were so young - - 
 We don't have time for this. 
 (really sobbing) It must've been so painful! 
 (eyes filling with tears) I'm warning you -- don't do this -- 
 I mean, it's like all his hopes for you died with him. And that's so sad. 
 (starting to cry) There I go. You happy now?      You see what you're doing here? Both men are crying now. 
 Your father really loved you. 
 I loved him, too. I did. 
 (hugs him) I know. I know. Jelly comes around the corner and sees the two men in a weepy embrace. JELLY Oh, boy.    This is bad. 
 Did you really think you were gonna live through this? 
 I had my hopes. 
 Yeah, well, nice work.   Mr. Rigazzi will be very grateful. 
 (to Vitti) Rigazzi? I thought he worked for Patti LoPresti. 
 That's what Patty thought, too. This scumbag's been playin' both sides against the middle. 
 There's only one side as far as I'm concerned. Mine. What did you think? I was just gonna stand by and let some fuckin' has-been move back in? So long, Mr. Vitti. He cocks the gun and is about to pull the trigger when Ben suddenly roars and slams him in the head with his gun. Vitti and Jelly quickly cover Al Pacino and Enormous Bobby. 
 (beating the shit out of Eddie) I can't take it anymore! That's what I hate about you fucking sociopaths! You just keep changing the rules to suit yourselves. Well, not this time, you anti-social asshole. You fucked with the wrong shrink! Sitting on Eddie's chest, he presses the gun against Eddie's nose. 
 Don't you read the papers?   The guy 
 Yeah, what? 
 (screaming) On the floor! Face-down!   Now! 
 (to Eddie) Nice goin'. Good plan. 
 What's a sociopath? 
 They're escaping out the back!    Get over there! Move it! The marshals rush toward the sound of the GUNFIRE and disappear around the corner. CUT TO: 
 As the marshals round the corner, they see a police shoot-out in progress. Wiseguys are FIRING AUTOMATIC WEAPONS at cops who are pinned down behind police cruisers. The Captain of the marshals FIRES a warning SHOT in the air. 
 (on a bullhorn) Freeze! Drop your weapons! 
 What the hell is this? 
 (O.S.) (on his own bullhorn) Cut, cut, cut! What the hell's going on? Raoul strides out into the street, furious, still talking through his bullhorn. 
 (to the Captain) Who are you? What are you doing in my shot? The Captain and the marshals look around and see that they're on the set of "Little Caesar." 
 What are you doing on my street? The Captain walks toward Raoul until they are almost face to face, shouting at each other through their BULLHORNS. 
 I have a permit! 
 I don't give a shit about your permit! The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR addresses the TV crew. 
 All right, people. Back to one and let's try it again! (into his walkie-talkie) Release the traffic and reset for another take. On the perimeters of the set, the PA's signal the off-duty cops who work the set to release the real traffic they've been holding on the cross streets. A city bus passes behind Raoul and Tony Bella who are still screaming at the Federal Marshal. CUT TO: EXT. 11TH AVENUE - MINUTES LATER In mid-block, SWAT cops step into the street and wave the bus to a halt. 
 (sees them coming) That's it. We're screwed. The cops walk toward the back and confront Ben. 
 You! 
 Yes, Officer? 
 You're one tough shrink. The cops unmask. It's Mo-Mo, Cokes, and Tuna.     They laugh and slap hands with Vitti and Ben. CUT TO: 
 Feeling pretty good, huh? 
 I felt worse. 
 So what now? You go on the run for the rest of your life? Back to Sing Sing? Or you turn up dead in an alley? 
 Those are my choices? What   happened to lying on a beach in Costa  Rica for the next twenty years?   You can't let me enjoy this for  five fuckin' minutes? 
 Five minutes?    And then what? 
 And then what?    I'll show you. CUT TO: EXT. RIGAZZI PLUMBING AND HEATING - NEXT MORNING A Rigazzi company van is forced open by a team of FBI agents led by Agent Miller. Stacked inside are forty gold bars. Agent Cerrone comes out of the building with Lou Rigazzi and several associates in handcuffs. U.S. Attorney Chapin makes a statement to the media. 
 Acting on intelligence we developed in the last few days, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. took very aggressive action to recover the stolen gold and bring the perpetrators to justice. I'm happy to tell the people of New York that the streets are safe again. CUT TO: EXT. PATTY'S HOUSE - SAME TIME Vitti knocks on the front door.    Patty answers it in her robe. 
 Hi, Paul.   How'd it go? 
 Not so good. 
 Yeah, I heard. It's all over the television. I never should've trusted Eddie. But, you know, a woman alone in the world is very vulnerable. 
 Yeah, I know. 
 At least I don't have to worry about the Rigazzis no more. Thanks to you. 
 I told you -- I just want to be left 
 I know. I'll make sure. How about some breakfast? I could make you some waffles and -- whatever else you want. She adjusts her robe, providing Vitti a quick peek. 
 Can't do that. 
 Well, if you ever change your mind -- (kisses him) Good luck, Paul. CUT TO: EXT. EAST RIVER BOARDWALK - LATER MORNING Ben is leaning against the railing gazing at the water when Vitti walks up. 
 Did you see Patti? 
 Yeah. 
 (ruefully) Did she grab your balls? 
 What kind of question is that? She's cool. She's just happy to have 'the Wrench' out of the way. 
 Well, I talked to the U.S. Attorney. 
 Did he grab your balls? 
 No, Paul, he did not grab my balls. He thanked me for tipping him off about the gold. And he said he won't be coming after you if you stay out of trouble.  So what do you think? 
 I'm gonna go to Ohio -- get Marie and the kids -- then we'll probably disappear for awhile -- figure out all 
 Good idea. Change is hard, Paul.    But you did the right thing. 
 Yeah, you, too. You hung in there. That took a lot of guts. 
 Well, I just -- 
 No, you were like an animal back there. 
 I just vented my displaced aggression 
 No. I'm telling you. You're a monster. I saw the beast in you. 
 I'm not a beast. I can handle myself if I have to -- 
 Handle yourself? You were fuckin' John Wayne. 
 Well, I wrestled a bit in high school -- 122 pounds. 
 Yeah, I could tell.   You're good, you. 
 I'm not -- 
 Paul, I just -- 
 No. You are good. You got a gift, my friend. Ben gives up. 
 Fine.   I have a gift. 
 So -- happy ending, huh? 
 Well, I think so.   Don't you feel better now? 
 Are you kidding? I feel like shit. All that work for nothing. 20 million bucks. 
 You're grieving -- it's a process. 
 Take it easy, Doc. 
 You, too, Paul. They embrace. Then Vitti starts to walk away toward Jelly who has been waiting at a respectful distance. Vitti stops and turns. 
 Hey, Doc! (sings) 'There's a place for us -- ' 
 
