 
 The most powerful ruler in Christendom, Philip of Spain, has sworn to return all Europe to the Catholic faith. 
 Only England stands in his way: a weak impoverished nation ruled by a woman. 
 Philip prepares to obey the will 2             of his God. 
 S/I: 
 (I hear. I obey. My Lord and my 1 God.) 
 (God has made his will known to me. The time for our great enterprise has come.) 
 At last. 
 (V.O.) Why do you go among the people, majesty? I tell you plainly, you will be murdered! Every Catholic in England is a potential assassin! 
 Be warned by the atrocities in France! God-fearing Christians murdered by Papist cut-throats inflamed by hatred of the truth! 
 We know the Catholics take their orders from Spain. The Spanish speak openly of Mary Stuart as 
 (sharply) Mary Stuart is a Queen cast out by her own ungrateful nation. 
 With respect, majesty - a 
 Mary Stuart is my cousin. She is our guest. And she is under our control. 
 But while she lives, majesty, she is a beacon that draws our enemies' eyes and hopes. 
 While she lives? 
 She is the poison at the heart of England. The poison must be cut out. 
 You'd have me make a martyr of her. What is her crime? 
 (V.O.) Treachery, ma'am. All Catholics are traitors! Their loyalty is to the Pope of Rome. 
 (V.O.) How many Catholics are there in England, sir? 
 (V.O.) Immense numbers, majesty! 
 (V.O.) We believe half the nation clings to the old superstitions. 
 What would you have me do? `Cut out' half the people of England? 
 We must act, majesty. Our inaction is taken to be weakness. 
 If any of my people break the 
 Until the day they rise in rebellion! Majesty, we have proven reason to fear every Catholic in the land - 
 Fear creates fear, sir. I will not punish my people for their beliefs. Only for their deeds. am assured that the people of England love their Queen. My constant endeavour is to earn that love. 
 The people are agitated. 
 What people? 
 Your bishops are preaching that God is showing his displeasure- the Queen being still unmarried - some are saying infertile - 
 What nonsense! 
 Dangerous nonsense. Mary Stuart has a son - 
 Why does everyone torment me with 
 So long as you have no issue. Elizabeth looks back at Wsalsingham. 
 Produce an heir and there'll be no more talk of Mary Stuart. 
 Isn't it customary to obtain a 
 Not too soon, my lady. 
 There are husbands to be had. 
 (to Bess) 
 I'll want the marriage if I want the man. 
 Austria. France. Sweden. 
 Why stop there? Turkey has a Sultan. China has an Emperor. (to Bess) What sort of man do you want? 
 I confine myself to the possible. 
 An honest man. With friendly eyes. 
 (to Walsingham) That's where you and I differ, Walsingham. I find the impossible far more interesting. (to Bess) And good legs. You'll want good legs. 
 And sweet breath. 
 So that you can kiss him without choking. 
 Ship builders are being recruited in Spanish ports at double wages. The sea wall at Dover is cracking. There's no money to rebuild our defences. I don't need advisers to tell me my business. 
 They care for your safety, majesty. The threats to your person are real. 
 And they know very well that if I fall, they all come tumbling down after me. 
 Let's pray, Bess. May we have wisdom not to fear shadows in the night, and courage when the day of danger truly dawns. 
 Let England know we're back, Mr Calley. 
 
 Run out and prime. From the bow number one gun, on my word - 
 Lines round my mouth. Where did they come from? 
 Smile lines, my lady. 
 Smile lines? When do I smile? With that she smiles, and sees Bess's answering reflected smile. 
 Now you have smile lines too. 
 `Elizabeth! The angels weep for you, Elizabeth! Why do you close your ears to the voice of your loving God?' 
 (V.O.) `Elizabeth! You are leading the souls of your people to Hell! Turn back! Marry me, and save England!'I spoke to her just as I speak to you now. 
 But she did not listen. She made me a speech about the virtues of virginity. Me! Virginity! She has brought this on herself. P hilip surveys the scene through the carriage window with a shudder. 
 Every tree that falls hurts me. I lose a part of myself. I am cursed with sensitivity. I feel too much. 
 Your majesty has a merciful soul. 
 I sacrifice my country's forests to save the souls of a lost nation. That is true mercy. England is lost to darkness, Father. I bring light. 
 The light of purifying fire. 
 My time has come, majesty. (Beat) Send me home. 
 This is so pretty I'm inclined to send it as a present to my dear cousin Elizabeth. She holds up the delicate work to show her ladies. 
 MARY (CONT'D) It is an intimate garment, of course. But even Elizabeth must have the occasional intimate moment. Annette reaches her mistress and kneels before her, holding out the letter. 
 My Queen. 
 Our friends write to give us hope. 
 (low) Soon England's true believers will rise up against the bastard usurper Elizabeth, and slit her throat, and throw her down to hell. 
 That's enough, Annette. (But she loves it.) Slit her throat? Please. 
 And when the bastard usurper is dead, my lady will be queen. 
 Here's my noble jailer, come to smack my hand. She holds out one hand to be smacked. The other hand holds the letter out of sight. 
 Have I sinned again, sir? 
 No, no, my lady. Unless beauty is counted a sin. 
 Oh, you jailer. I don't trust you. 
 Not jailer, my lady, please. Warden. Protector. Friend. You are the Queen's guest. Mary signs to her ladies. One of them brings her the embroidery, discreetly receiving in exchange the hidden letter. 
 See how I pass my time in my lonely prison. 
 Charming, ma'am. Distractingly charming. She holds the intimate garment against her body. Paulet seems to be too fascinated by it to notice he is being 
 
 (O.O.V.) So what's it for, my young friend? Not for shooting rabbits, I'm guessing. 
 We live in dangerous times. 
 We do indeed. 
 (very low) The conspiracy gains strength. 
 I ask for your forgiveness. Moving with speed, he seizes the Armourer's head, twists it to one side, and snaps his neck. Reston walks quietly out of the store. 
 God bless your majesty - God love you! - See her sweet face! 
 
 A puddle in the way, majesty. 
 A puddle... The guards take up their positions once more. Bess throws Raleigh a quick smile as she follows the royal party. His answering shrug says: I tried. He picks up the cloak, and stands gazing after the Queen. 
 The Queen is at her prayers! 
 A puddle... 
 She spoke to me. You have to give me that. 
 Oh, I do. The Queen spoke to you. One word - but she spoke. 
 Two words. 
 You're made. A dukedom at the very least. 
 Did you see the girl behind her? I've been at sea too long. 
 Thousands are dying every day of famine in Ireland. Another rebellion is a distinct possibility. A courtier is holding a portrait which he shows to the Queen. 
 Francis of Valois, majesty. 
 
 
 (to Lord Howard) You have the plans for the new docks? 
 Here, majesty. 
 We still need to keep France out of the arms of Spain. 
 Let me think on it. (to Howard) What if enemy ships should sail up the Thames? Can the docks be closed? 
 Not closed, majesty. But the gun positions here, and here, have full command of the channel. The courtier displays a second portrait. 
 King Erik of Sweden, majesty. 
 What again? 
 Still madly in love with you. 
 Still mad, you mean. (Looking around). Where's Bess? The courtier presents a third portrait. 
 Ivan, Tsar of all the Russias, known as "The Terrible." Walsingham merely shakes his head. 
 You'll have to see the Lord Chamberlain, sir. He indicates a portly man surrounded by petitioners, beyond 
 
 
 And when will he come out? 
 There's no way of knowing that, sir. The doorkeeper stands aside for Bess. She recognises Raleigh, and throws him a smile before rushing past. 
 (as if to Calley) 
 Late again, Bess. 
 I beg your majesty's forgiveness. 
 Given. Once. 
 The puddle man is outside, majesty. 
 My suitors. 
 The Archduke Charles of Austria, majesty. 
 The younger brother of Maximilian II, the Holy Roman Emperor. 
 A cousin of Philip II of Spain. 
 He's rather sweet. 
 More your age than mine, Bess. How old is he? 
 Young... I believe, majesty. An 
 And it would put Philip on a leash. Elizabeth looks across at the Spaniards. 
 I become almost enthusiastic. to Hatton) Send for him. (to Bess) Where is he, then? 
 (to Walsingham) How much longer do you think I can play this game? 
 Virginity is an asset that holds its value well. 
 Diplomatically speaking. 
 Majesty, this man is a notorious pirate. 
 Indeed? 
 Spanish treasure, stolen from Spanish ships. You will see. R aleigh kneels before the Queen. Elizabeth gestures for him to rise. 
 Well, sir. Who are you? 
 Walter Raleigh, your majesty. 
 
 A gentleman of Devon. 
 What do you want? 
 The honour to be in the presence of my Queen, whose radiant beauty is the boast and glory of the English people. 
 Yes, well, here you are. 
 I'm just returned from the New World, majesty. I have claimed the fertile coast in your name, and called it Virginia, in honour of our Virgin Queen. 
 Virginia? And if I marry? Will you change the name to Conjugia? 
 I ask for your gracious permission, majesty, to return to the New World with your royal warrant, to found a colony under the laws and protections of England. E lizabeth's eye has fallen on the native Americans. 
 Who are they? 
 Americans, majesty. They long to be your newest subjects. 
 Have they no ruler of their own? 
 None to match England's Queen. 
 These gentlemen are welcome. See that they're treated well. 
 I also come bearing gifts for your majesty, from the New World. 
 The fruits of piracy, majesty. The true property of the realm of Spain. 
 Let's see, shall we? to Raleigh) What do you bring me? 
 Mud, and leaves. 
 (amused) Mud and leaves? 
 Patata, majesty. You eat it. Very nourishing. 
 Tobacco. You breathe its smoke. Very stimulating. 
 Forgive me, majesty, I find the air has become stale. I am sensitive to the smell of open sewers. 
 (to Raleigh) Continue. 
 Gold. You spend it. Very satisfying. 
 Courtesy of a Spanish ship, that found itself unable to complete its journey. 
 The fruits of piracy after all, it seems. 
 Philip of Spain is no friend of England, majesty. The more gold I take from him, the safer you will be. 
 Well, well. A political pirate. A logic-chopping pirate. 
 And your majesty's most loyal subject. 
 But not my best dressed. W    (Beat) elcome home, Mr Raleigh. 
 What did you think of her? 
 Terrifying. 
 But magnificent. He moves on. 
 `Mud and leaves'! I nearly died! B 
 `Patata! You eat it!' 
 She liked him. I could tell. 
 Well, wouldn't you? 
 I'm glad to have the opportunity to thank you. Without your help, I'd still be in outer darkness. 
 I did very little, sir. You'd already caught the Queen's eye. 
 Then I thank you for the very little. 
 (singing) Salve regina, mater misericordiae, vita dulcedo et spes nostra salve... 
 (O.O.V.) His weakness endangers us all. He can't go on with us. And we can't leave him behind. 
 Who will help him? 
 ( singing) Ad te clamamus, exsulaes filii Evae. Ad te suspiramus gementes et flentes in hac lacrimarum valle - 
 Make your peace with God. 
 No, Tom! Don't kill me! I don't want to die! 
 Si ambulam in medio umbrae mortis, non timebo mala - 
 Visitor waiting, sir. 
 
 
 You look terrible. Don't they feed you in Paris? How are your studies? Learned the secrets of the universe yet? 
 Not yet. 
 These are dangerous times to be questioning the ways of God. You must take care of yourself. 
 My needs are simple. 
 You'll dine with us? You'll lodge with us? 
 William! 
 Look at you! All grown up. 
 William. This is a pleasure. 
 I've been away too long, ma'am. 
 You come with me, William. 
 He's not still a student, is he? 
 Have you spoken to the Queen? 
 I speak to her daily. 
 You know what I mean. You've done enough. No man could do more. 
 I can't leave court yet. The Queen needs me. 
 So you're to die in harness like a pack horse, are you? And for what? (calling) Mary! William! 
 These are difficult times- 
 It's always difficult times. Mary joins them, her arm in William's. Walsingham seizes the opportunity to change the subject. 
 William, come and tell us all the new ideas in the University. Will the great breach in the church ever be healed? 
 I doubt it, brother. Compromise is out of fashion. On both sides they say there can only be one truth, and one God. 
 Sit, sit. 
 H ere by me, William. 
 What do they say in Paris of the Pope's call for holy war? 
 Many welcome it. 
 I don't understand why we must all hate each other. 
 Truth will always hate falsehood, ma'am. 
 Why do we have to talk about war? Tell us your nice news, William. Are you married yet? 
 (smiling) Not yet. 
 Then we must find you a nice sensible English wife. 
 No, no. I won't be staying long. I must go back to my studies. 
 Not too soon, I hope. Every man deserves a rest. 
 Listen to him! When did you last rest, I'd like to know? (to William) He won't listen to me. Not a thought for his health. You tell him, he's your brother. He'll die at his desk, out of sheer selfishness. 
 
 Your highness does me great honour. Shall we eat our dinner? It should prove almost as restorative as my love. 
 So tell me, Mr Raleigh, in your sea battles - how do you sink an enemy ship? You shoot holes in its sides, I suppose. 
 No, ma'am. A sunk ship is of no value. The object is to capture and command. 
 And how do you do that? 
 Surprise. Speed. Irresistible violence. 
 I think you're not as accustomed as I am to eating in public. I have a secret. lowering her voice) I pretend there's a pane of glass - eine Glasscheibe - between me and them. S he moves one hand before her face, indicating an imaginary pane of glass. As she looks, she sees Bess staring at someone - follows her gaze - and is amused to find that the object of her attention is also Raleigh. 
 They can see me, but they can't hear me, or touch me. You should try it. 
 Bess. 
 (low) He interests me. Talk to him. 
 Him, my lady? 
 Him. 
 His highness is tired after his journey. 
 No man can be tired in the presence of so lovely a Queen. E lizabeth speaks so only he can hear, in German. 
 (You play the game very well, my young friend. But don't you 
 (I daren't even think what I'm really thinking.) 
 (You're thinking, perhaps, that 
 (You're very wise, madame.) 
 I adore the natives you brought back with you. I don't suppose you could get one for me? They're not dangerous, are they? 
 That depends what you propose to do with them. 
 I'd dress him up in mulberry- coloured silk and have him walk behind me, carrying my cloak. 
 The pirate is not too bored by the vanities of the court, I hope. 
 A simple sailor, dazzled by the bright lights. 
 If you can bring yourself to leave the dazzle of the bright lights for a moment - 
 D rawn away by the brightest light of all. 
 That can only mean the Queen. 
 I don't presume to raise my eyes so high. 
 It seems you've presumed after all. 
 It seems you're determined to think the worst of me. 
 Tell me what it is you really want. 
 What every man wants. Money. Fame. Love. 
 In that order? 
 Each leads to the next. The money will buy and equip ships for a return voyage to the New World. The success of my infant colony there will make me famous. The fame will bring me love. 
 It seems rather a long way round. 
 There are benefits along the way. It is something, after all, to take a blank on the map and build there a shining city. 
 Which you will no doubt name after yourself. 
 (smiling) No doubt. B 
 Well, then. I am answered. 
 May I ask a question in return? 
 Of course. 
 How am I to win the Queen's favour? 
 Why should I tell you that, sir? 
 I've little enough to offer, I know. But whatever I have to give - ask, and it's yours. 
 My advice to you is, say what you mean to say as plainly as possible. All men flatter the Queen in the hope of advancement. Pay her the compliment of truth. 
 I don't even know your name. 
 Elizabeth Throckmorton. 
 A second Elizabeth. 
 Everyone calls me Bess. S he goes back to the Queen, as Elizabeth is rising to leave. She speaks to the company. 
 His highness the Archduke informs me that my charms overwhelm him. He will retire to his private quarters to rest. 
 He's a sweet boy. I don't want him hurt by your schemes. 
 I suspect him of being a professional charmer. Am I right? 
 He is certainly charming, my lady. 
 There are duller professions. And what is it he hopes to gain by his charms? 
 He hopes for glory in his New World. He dreams of building a shining city. 
 
 It's refreshing to meet a man who looks to a world beyond the court. 
 So it is. We shall let him come again. 
 Dismissed? On whose orders? 
 Do stop snivelling. 
 The Warden, my lady. 
 The Warden? My Warden? 
 What have you done now, you bad man? Sent away my laundress? How am I to have clean clothes? Or do 
 That was not my motive, ma'am. 
 How am I to send my intimate letters? 
 Through me. 
 And you will read them. 
 With respectful admiration. 
 Am I to have no privacy? 
 No. Beneath the charm, steel. 
 You disappoint me, sir. 
 The Queen orders these measures for your protection. 
 The Queen! Am I not a Queen too? What if I wish to write a love letter? Is Elizabeth to be sent a copy? Is she so starved of lovers that she must feed on mine? 
 The Queen grieved when your husband died, ma'am. As she grieved when your second husband 
 Tormentor! Is that Elizabeth's order too? That you torment and mock me? She turns to go, but stops before leaving the room: bitter, haughty, not deigning to look back. 
 They say she's a beautiful woman. 
 
 She's called the virgin queen. Why is that, sir? Can it be that 
 My friend, forgive me. You are my friend, are you not? 
 I am your servant, ma'am, and your admirer. 
 I shall send no more letters. I shall stay here quietly, in my prison. With you. 
 (V.O.) 
 
 (V.O.) You live with fear, in the grip of fear - fear of storms, fear of sickness on board, fear of the immensity. What if you never escape? How can you escape? There's nowhere to go. So you must drive your fear down, deep into your belly, and study your charts, and watch your compass, and pray for a fair wind - and hope. 
 Pure naked fragile hope, when all your senses scream at you, Lost! Lost! Imagine it. Day after day, staring west, the rising sun on your back, the setting sun in your eyes, hoping, hoping - Sir Christopher Hatton enters. 
 Majesty, the Archduke and the court are waiting. 
 (sharply) Let them wait! (to Raleigh) Go on, Mr Raleigh. You were hoping. 
 At first it's no more than a haze on the horizon, the ghost of a haze, the pure line corrupted. But clouds do that, and storms. So you watch, you watch. 
 (V.O.) Then it's a smudge, a shadow on the far water. For a day, for another day, the stain slowly spreads along the horizon, and takes form - until on the third day you let yourself believe. You dare to whisper the word - land! 
 Land. Life. Resurrection. The true adventure. Coming out of the vast unknown, out of the immensity, into safe harbour at last. That - that - is the New World. 
 (V.O.) The Queen does not have a private life. 
 The Queen lives for her people. You will therefore forgive me, sir, if after much thought and prayer I decline your offer of marriage. 
 (Can I go home now?) 
 (Go home, my friend. Don't be in a hurry to grow old. Youth is so very precious.) 
 Well? Are you satisfied with the Queen's favour? 
 She listened as if she understood me. 
 Then I shall expect some gratitude. R 
 What do you want? 
 I expect I'll think of something. 
 Mr. Raleigh. 
 I like your immensities. Your ocean is an image of eternity, I think. Such great spaces make us small. Do we discover the New World, Mr Raleigh, or does the New World discover us? 
 You speak like a true explorer. 
 I like you, Mr Raleigh. 
 And I like you. 
 You know, of course, that when I like a man, I reward him. 
 I have heard that. 
 And what have you to say about it?       R 
 Reward my mission, majesty, not me. 
 Is the mission not the man? 
 Leave me free to like you in return. That can be my reward. 
 Go on. 
 I think it must be hard for so great a Queen to know the simple pleasure of being liked for herself. 
 Now you become dull. 
 Mine! 
 (out of breath) You have - the stronger horse. 
 Y         ours carries the lighter load. 
 The Queen does not give way to others. Raleigh stops his horse. Elizabeth rides on up to him and then past him. Raleigh secretly spurs his horse. The horse springs forward, ahead of her. 
 Whoa! Whoa! (at Elizabeth, reigning in the horse) Forgive me, majesty. My horse doesn't know his place yet Elizabeth looks at him, amused, intrigued. 
 Have you ever known your place, Mr. Raleigh? She urges her horse forward, forcing Raleigh to catch up. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I'm surprised you're not married yet. 
 I'm a sailor, majesty. 
 And can sailors not be lovers? 
 (with a smile) 
 Ah, I see. You like love better 
 
 When I marry, I marry for my country. 
 (with a smile) Some... 
 You've yet to meet your equal? Raleigh hesitates. She understands him. 
 I would want someone who knows me as I am. Now it is Elizabeth who hesitates. He understands her as well. 
 You want a friend, not just an equal. You want someone to share your joy when you're happy. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Ah yes. I know all about it. There. I'm rested now. She turns her horse around in the direction from which they came. Raleigh follows. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) We can be something to each 
 George! What's wrong? Is your father alright? 
 He's old. He won't live long now. Thank you for coming, dear Bess. 
 I was worried. You must send me no more letters. You know what would happen if I was caught. 
 I need your help. 
 Do you need more money? 
 My father is a tired old man. We don't want to hide like this 
 You are known Papists. 
 The Queen loves you. Speak to her. 
 I cannot betray the Queen. 
 You are not betraying her. My 
 Don't put me in danger like this. 
 Cousin Bess, we've known each other all our lives. I would do nothing to harm you. 
 I'm sorry. 
 If they catch us, they will kill us. Our lives are in your hands. 
 Don't tease me, Mr Raleigh. There's nothing I'd like to do more. 
 So why don't you? 
 Alright, then. I will. 
 See! You lie! You don't want me on your ship at all. (turning towards Bess) You're a liar! Elizabeth now takes in Bess. 
 Would you like to go to sea, Bess? 
 Majesty? 
 I'm afraid that's not possible. Women bring bad luck on board ship. 
 Oh, do they? 
 Lock up a hundred men in a space smaller than this room, for months at a time - Men have needs. A beautiful woman like you would drive us all mad. 
 (amused) Men have needs? 
 Then let them stay on land and see to their needs. (to Bess) Mr Raleigh is eager to sail away to his infant colony, Bess. We must persuade him to stay a little longer, mustn't we? 
 Mr Raleigh. A word of advice. The Queen chooses to show you favour. You naturally wish to take advantage of that. (Beat) Don't ask for too much. 
 You think all I want is money. 
 I hope all you want is money. 
 You think I'm a cynical adventurer, with little breeding and less education. You're wrong. I'm a cynical adventurer with little breeding and an excellent education. 
 I begin to see why the Queen likes you. 
 Bess? 
 No, don't stop. I like it. 
 Is it true, Bess? That I've never known the simple pleasure of being liked for myself? 
 I hope you believe that I like you for yourself, my lady. 
 Is anybody ever liked just for themselves? Are you? I doubt it. Men like you because you're pretty. And because you have the ear of the Queen. 
 No doubt, my lady. 
 Him too. He likes you because he wants my favour. You do realise that? 
 Yes, my lady. 
 And the other thing too, of course. But all men want that. Male desire confers no B         distinction. 
 I envy you, Bess. You're free to have - what I can't have. You're my adventurer. Don't be afraid. It's all over so soon. 
 Still nothing to tell me, Mr Throckmorton? 
 My soul will go free soon. 
 I know about the Enterprise. I need names. But if you won't help me, perhaps your father will. 
 He's been questioned, as you have. I do have to know, you see. 
 No! 
 Enough! You want a name, I'll give you a name. 
 Well? 
 Another letter has come from Mary Stuart, majesty. Asking to meet you. 
 Filled with declarations of love? 
 As always. 
 If she wants my love, let her deserve it. Refused. 
 Mr Raleigh. I've kept you waiting. 
 You have more important concerns 
 There is always other business. But I have been waiting too. Walsingham enters. 
 Majesty. 
 Yes, Walsingham? 
 The traitor has talked, majesty. The traitor Throckmorton. 
 (to Raleigh) Forgive me, sir. As you see, my time is not my own. 
 Harry? 
 You'll never guess what I heard - 
 What do you know of the Enterprise of England, Ambassador? 
 The Enterprise...? Forgive me, your majesty... 
 It's a plan for the invasion of my country. Two armies landing on the coasts of Sussex and - 
 Norfolk. 
 And Norfolk. Mary Stuart is to be set free, and placed on the English throne. 
 I know nothing of any invasion plans. 
 I refer to this plan as the Enterprise of England. It should more accurately be called `la Empresa di Inglaterra', because it's a Spanish plan. The plan of your king, my one-time brother-in- law, Philip II, to attack my country. 
 Attack? It is my country that is under attack! Your so-called pirates attack our merchant ships daily! Do you think we don't know where their orders come from? The whole world knows that pirates sail up the Thames all the way to the royal bed! 
 (exploding) You will leave my presence, sir! Go back to Spain! Tell Philip that I don't fear him, or his priests, or his armies. Tell him if he wants to shake his little fist at us, we're ready to give him such a bite he'll wish he'd kept his hands in his pockets. 
 You see a leaf fall, and you think you know which way the wind blows. But a wind is coming, madam, that will sweep away your pride. H e bows and turns to go. Elizabeth's words blaze after him. 
 I too can command the wind, sir. I have a hurricane in me that will strip Spain bare, if you dare to try me! 
 What are you staring at? Lower your eyes! I am the Queen! 
 (It can't be denied that we've lost the advantage of surprise. A large part of our plans has come into their hands.) 
 (The Jesuit is still at liberty?) 
 (We understand so, majesty.) 
 (He knows his business. We've lost nothing.) 
 (Tell the carpenters to go on working. No one is to stop for me. The fleet must be ready to sail in a month.) 
 (Impossible, majesty!) 
 (If this is God's work, God will make it possible.) 
 ( Only a miracle -) 
 (A miracle, then. Let it be done!) 
 
 The Queen has sent you to me. 
 Yes - 
 Tell the Queen that I will 
 The Queen asks me to assure you - 
 I need no assurances. I'm no courtier and never have been. I've lost my appetite for playing games that it seems I'm too stupid to understand. 
 That is unfair - 
 You call me unfair! 
 Let me speak! 
 The Queen shouts at you once, and you sulk like a child. I thought you more of a man than that. And I thought you a better friend to the Queen. Her every move is watched by a hundred eyes. Assassins plot to kill her. Enemies prepare to overwhelm her country. And you say she's playing games? Raleigh is watching her as she speaks, and he's impressed. 
 
 
 You ask permission to go. 
 Yes, majesty. 
 You plan to return to the New World. To your colony. For two, or three, or four years. 
 If your majesty grants me your royal warrant. 
 That is a long time. 
 There's nothing left for me to do here. At sea I know what I'm to do, I know the risks, I know the rewards. Here - 
 But you're quite wrong. You are needed here. I have decided to appoint you Captain of my personal guard. 
 Captain of your - ! 
 Kneel. 
 Rise, Sir Walter Raleigh. 
 
 This is too great an honour. 
 If it's such an honour, why are you staring at your boots? 
 You know why. He raises his eyes, but he still doesn't look at her. 
 Now you stare at the wall. Am I so old and hideous that you can't even look me in the face? 
 Why do you talk like a fool when you're anything but a fool? 
 My friend, forgive me. I'm a vain and foolish woman. At court it's all a game. I like to be admired. I require it. I grow accustomed to it. But it's all - nothing. 
 The storm clouds are gathering, my friend. Please don't leave me now. 
 (O.S.) Hang! Hang! Hang! 
 (V.O.) Lord have mercy on the soul of your servant, who gives his life for your eternal truth... 
 Francis is about to die! We must act!      R 
 He enters heaven as a soldier returns home victorious from war. 
 Why don't we strike? What's he dying for? Is this part of your plan? 
 Lord, be with us as the end approaches. 
 Oh! It's you! 
 I'm sorry. I didn't mean to disturb you. 
 My prayer's done. 
 Something has distressed you. 
 And I thought I prayed in silence. 
 So you did. 
 A man was hanged today. A Papist. I knew him well. He was my cousin. He died because I gave information. I gave information to prove my loyalty. Because I was afraid. 
 That's necessity. That's the world we live in. 
 He told me he wanted to change. Become part of the new England. I was afraid that he was lying to me. But what if - what if it was true? He sees the horror in her eyes, at the thought that she has sent an innocent man to his death. Tears rise to her eyes. 
 
 If you knew him well, you will have sensed the truth. 
 I thought so. 
 He was hoping to use you. You did 
 There, now. He wipes away a tear from her cheek. In desperate need of comfort, she throws herself into his arms. He holds her 
 We're all mortal, Bess. We do what we can. He strokes her cheek. She meets his eyes, filled with gratitude. She takes the hand that touches her face and moves it to her lips. She kisses it, still holding his eyes. He draws her back into his arms, and they kiss. Suddenly they're kissing eagerly, greedily, their long pent- up passion released at last. 
 Morning. Another filthy day on God's stinking earth. 
 Morning to you. 
 Last cask! 
 Nothing but beer. Satisfied? 
 Madame! Madame! 
 (to herself) The gentlemen are ready. It will be soon now. 
 Blessed Mother of God pray for us! 
 Bring me pen and paper, Annette. They wait on my reply. Hurry, now, hurry! 
 (V.O.) W ell, Dr Dee. Here I am again, back to consult the wisdom of your charts. 
 The alignment of the planets is most unusual this year. Mars is due to take the ascendant three days after the anniversary of your birth - your majesty was born on September 7th - and I see that twelve days before the anniversary of your birth - He transfers his attention to a different, astronomical chart. 
 - there will be a full moon - the moon which - 
 - governs the fortunes of all princes of the female gender. 
 Princes of the female gender. 
 I mean to say, a prince who is also a woman. 
 Yes, Dr Dee. I am following you. So what does it all mean? D 
 It means the rise of a great empire, majesty. And it means convulsions, also. The fall of an empire. 
 Which empire is to rise, and which is to fall? 
 That I can't say. Astrology is, as yet, more an art than a science. 
 Nothing more, Dr Dee? No more specific calamities that we can guard against? 
 He means, Will I be assassinated? 
 Queens are mortal. 
 Elizabeth is mortal. The Queen will never die. 
 You see, Francis? This is a mystery. (to Dee) He has no patience with mysteries. W 
 What I don't know, I can't use. 
 And yet mysteries have power. Have you not learned that? 
 Francis. Leave us for a moment. 
 And the private life of this prince of the female gender, Dr Dee? What do the stars foretell there? Or is this too a mystery? 
 These are matters of state, majesty. 
 Do the stars not foretell matters of state? 
 For such a prediction, I must look in a different chart. 
 Wonderful... Out of such suffering, to have forged such strength... You will need all your strength in days to come... And love... So much love... 
 But you doubt yourself, my child... I've not seen fear in 
 
 Something has weakened you... 
 But I'm no prophet. I see no more than the shadows of ghosts. 
 An art, not a science. I understand. 
 You have it? 
 What do you think? There must be 
 (O.O.V.) No. It won't do. Reston nods agreement. He returns to the table and dashes off a letter, muttering as he does so. 
 We wait on a direct order. He completes the note and gives it to Burton. 
 One more journey, my friend. Then - (fiercely) consummatum est! It is finished. 
 Please! I'm innocent! I've always been a loyal servant of the Queen. I'd never betray the Queen, never - 
 But you have, my dear. And you do. We both know that. 
 Keep me informed, and all will be well. I don't like surprises. 
 Jump! 
 (to Bess) When I push like this, my lady, give a jump into the air. 
 Let him throw you round, Bess. You can trust him. 
 And round - and round - and round - and down! 
 L a Volta, Mr Raleigh. The jump. I require all my ladies to learn it. You see how fearless Bess is. 
 You like your ladies to jump at your command? 
 Sometimes. Do you think that wrong? 
 No, no. You're the Queen. You are to be obeyed. 
 To tell you the truth, Mr Raleigh, there are times when I'm tired of being always in control. 
 Nonsense. 
 What? 
 You don't mean a word of it. You eat and drink control. 
 Do you say so? 
 Bess, you must try a dance with Mr Raleigh. He's eager to show us his skill. 
 No skill at all, majesty. I don't know the steps. 
 Oh, it's very simple. 
 You stand like this, with your hands firmly clasped here - and when she jumps, on the eighth step, you swing her round - once, twice, three times - and you're back to the beginning. What could be simpler? 
 Your majesty knows the dance better than I. 
 So come, Mr Raleigh. Take your position. I am to be obeyed. 
 As your majesty wishes. 
 Hold her tight. I don't want her dropped. ( to the musicians) Play! 
 (low) Leave her alone, Walsingham. I want both of them left alone. 
 As always, ma'am, my concern is for your safety. 
 I pray for my cousin Elizabeth. Do you think she prays for me? 
 `If our forces are in readiness, both within and without the realm, then your Queen commands you to set the gentlemen to work.' 
 (nodding agreement) This is the spark that will set England ablaze. Reston takes out pistols, and hands one to Ramsay, one to Babington.           R 
 We've been patient long enough. Let God's work begin. 
 It's me. William. 
 (still not looking up) Where have you been? We haven't seen you for days. 
 I met up with some old friends. 
 From Paris, no doubt. 
 Yes. 
 And now you've come back. 
 Do you know, I can still remember the day you were born? 
 I was eleven years old. And you, this helpless bundle. I looked at you in your crib, with your little wrinkled face, and I loved you from the first. I vowed then to look after you. I watched you grow up with your head in the clouds, always a dreamer. I couldn't follow you there. And now I've failed you, haven't I? Forgive me if I haven't loved you enough. 
 Did you really think I didn't know? 
 Was it for money? At least tell me you got a good price. W illiam shakes his head. 
 What then? What would you murder your own brother for? 
 (whisper) Eternal life. 
 Eternal life. The bribe no man can refuse. 
 The Queen is at her prayers! T he chapel doors begin to close. 
 Now! 
 God for Mary! England's true Queen! 
 Elizabeth! 
 You bring news? 
 The Queen has been attacked - 
 Yes? 
 The assassin seized - 
 Yes? 
 The Queen unharmed - 
 Unharmed? 
 And you, ma'am, are under arrest. 
 Me? What has any of this to do with me? 
 That's the trouble with intrigue, isn't it? With so many secrets, you can never quite tell who's on who's side, until the game ends. 
 My own invention. Theatrical, but effective. My master has every letter you've written. 
 Your master? 
 Walsingham. 
 Traitors. I'm surrounded by traitors. Who am I to trust? 
 Only my little one... 
 Ready to die, I see, Jesuit. 
 I have done what I was sent to do. 
 Why was the gun not loaded? 
 What was the Jesuit sent to do? 
 To kill the Queen. You know it. You know everything. 
 Not quite everything. 
 I've told you all I know. Go ahead and kill me. Take what's left of me. I don't care any more. All my life you've had everything and I've had nothing. So finish it. There's a better world waiting for me. We'll all be judged in the end, brother. Even you. 
 You're no martyr. You weren't even much of a murderer. Go back to France. Back to your dreams. Never let me hear of you again. 
 Send me home. 
 (They have letters in Mary Stuart's own hand. All England cries out for her death.) 
 (My dearest, how would you like to be Queen of England?) 
 They say she's taller than me. Her hair is chestnut in colour. Her eyes are hazel. They say she's beautiful. But people lie. They say I am beautiful. A dismissive shrug. Clearly she does not think herself beautiful. 
 She plotted to kill you. 
 Yes, it's true. I've read her letters. I too was a prisoner 
 So do we all. 
 I can be merciful. But she 
 She'll go on lying til you cut 
 You used to be gentler, Bess. 
 I used to be quieter, majesty. 
 Who are you to sit in judgement on me? By what authority do you condemn a Queen? God alone has made me what I am. He is my only judge. Raise your law above God's law, and what law remains? In your vanity and ignorance you set loose the monster of misrule. You know neither who you are nor what you do. But I know who I am. I die as I have lived - trusting in the mercy of my God - a Queen. 8 
 Must die? Mary Stuart must die? Where is it written? Who dares to 
 Majesty, this is no time for mercy - 
 Don't preach at me, old man. Look at you! You can hardly stand. Go home to your wife. Go home to your bed. 
 The law must have its way. 
 The law is for common men, not for princes. 
 Thank God you've come. I've never seen her so distressed. She's been alone in her rooms since morning. She'll see no one. 
 Has she asked for me? 
 No. But she needs you. I know she does. 
 Go to her. 
 My Queen. 
 My friend. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Did Bess bid you come? Have you 
 No. You don't need me to instruct you in your duty. 
 My duty? Was it my father's duty to murder my mother? I would be 
 Since when were you so afraid? 
 Yes, I am afraid. I am always afraid. 
 You fear your soul will be touched. Royalty is close to immortality. Kill a Queen - and queens are mortal. 
 You understand me well. 
 We mortals have many weaknesses. We feel too much. Hurt too much. And all too soon, we die. But we do have the chance of love. 
 Do we? Do we really? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I owe England my life. Don't ask for my soul. 
 Your face tells me. It's decided. 
 Tomorrow morning. At eight. 
 Please don't cry. 
 Forgiveness, your grace. 
 I forgive you with all my heart, for now, I hope, you will make an end of all my troubles. 
 I want it stopped! 
 No! It must be stopped! 
 (V.O.) God save the Queen! 
 (A sweet and Christian lady lies 
 (V.O.) Forgive me. In my weakness and my vanity, I have failed you. 
 How have you failed me? What am I to forgive you for? 
 Philip of Spain is a God-fearing man. He cannot make war without just cause. He sent the Jesuit to kill a Queen. But not you. 
 Not me! 
 The Jesuit's mission was to draw Mary Stuart into the murder plot. He knew I was reading her every letter. He waited until she wrote the words that sealed her guilt. 
 (slowly) And I ordered her execution. I murdered God's anointed Queen. And now God's most dutiful son makes holy war to punish me. 
 Forgive me, majesty. Let me go. 
 Yes... Go... 
 Exurge, domine et vindica causam tuam. Amen. 
 (V.O.) `Think you that there is any certainty in the affairs of mankind, when you know that one swift hour can destroy the greatest among us?' 
 Boethius. 
 The Consolation of Philosophy. 
 Thank you for coming at this late hour. 
 We're at war. Who knows when we'll meet again. If we'll meet again. 
 May the Lord God preserve England's Queen. 
 The same God in whose name Philip wages his holy war. Philip is a righteous man, and righteous men love to destroy. They burn whole worlds to make them pure, and leave behind - ashes. 
 He'll not burn England. 
 He may. His Armada is invincible, they say. If London falls, I fall. If England is lost, I am lost. 
 Never! 
 Never? It's night. My thoughts turn dark. Don't you ever think that one day, perhaps one day soon, you too will die? 
 The closer I come to death, the more I want to live. The hungrier I am for life. 
 You're right. We must live while we can. 
 Why be afraid of tomorrow? Today's all we have, and all we know. 
 Today. Tonight. 
 Now. 
 I wish - 
 I've never known a woman like you. 
 In some other time, in some other world, could you have loved me? 
 I know only one world. In this world, I have loved you. 
 Then there's... something you could do for me - something I've not known for a very long time - if you felt so inclined - 
 Something not to be spoken of afterwards - to be forgotten - but just for now - 
 A kiss? 
 Bess, I've been ordered to my ship - 
 I'll be quick. I have something to tell you. But I ask for nothing. Is that understood? Your life is your own. Nothing will change. 
 What is this, Bess? 
 I'm - 
 You're pregnant? 
 No one knows. My plans are made. I shall ask the Queen for permission to leave court. I shall live quietly in the country with - with my child. The Queen must know nothing. 
 Where will you go? 
 To my mother's house. 
 
 I'm a ward of the Queen. I can't court a man without her permission. I can't marry without her permission. As for having a child - 
 When were you planning to leave? 
 As soon as I'm allowed. 
 Am I not to see you again? What's to become of the child? Bess - 
 Hush! We've no choice. You know it as well as I do. 
 All I know is nothing's as it should be. 
 Please listen. You once said to me, `Whatever I have to give, ask and it's yours.' Do you remember? 
 Of course I remember. 
 I ask that you forget me. Go to your ship. Do your duty. Forget me. R aleigh gazes at her, deeply moved. 
 Oh, Bess... 
 Bess! We're summoned. 
 I'm coming. (to Raleigh) Goodbye. 
 Air! I must have air! 
 (V.O.) With this ring I thee wed. With my body I thee worship... 
 ... and with all my worldly goods H         I thee endow. 
 In the name of the father - 
 And of the Son - 
 And of the Holy Spirit. 
 Amen. 
 This Spanish Armada is at sea carrying an army of ten thousand men. (indicating on the map) The Duke of Parma has fifteen thousand men on the French coast. 
 They plan to cross the Channel in barges, under the protection of the Spanish fleet, and sail up the Thames. 
 
 (surprised) That is so. 
 Our forces defend the Thames 
 We have three, possibly four thousand, majesty. 
 If the Spanish fleet reaches Calais in strength, the combined armies will be beyond our power to resist. 
 Therefore, the Spanish fleet must not reach Calais. 
 Majesty, this vast Armada will surely smash through our naval defences. We must be prepared for the worst. 
 How did you know about the numbers of the Dutch barges, majesty? I don't recall supplying you with that information. 
 You may observe, Walsingham, that I don't see my way with only one eye. Nor do I hop along on only one leg. Why then would I rely on only one source of information? 
 Where's Bess? 
 Where is she? 
 Bess! Bess Throckmorton! Bess comes running from the far end. 
 Here, my lady! 
 Tell me! Is it true? Are you married? Are you with child? Are you WITH CHILD? Bess stands before her with her head bowed. 
 Yes, my lady. Elizabeth falls on her with uncontrolled rage, striking out at her, beating her about the head, shrieking out the words 
 You traitress! You dare to have secrets from me! I am your Queen! You ask my permission before you rut - before you marry - before you breed! My bitches wear my collars! Do you hear me? How dare you be with child! 
 Majesty, please! Dignity - mercy - 
 This is no time for mercy! That's what you said to me. I don't forget. But you showed mercy, Walsingham! Go to your traitor brother, and leave me to my business! W alsingham turns white. Elizabeth is back berating Bess. 
 Is it his child? Tell me! Say it! Is the child his? Tell me! Say it! Is it his? 
 Yes, my lady. It is - my husband's child. 
 This is not the Queen I love and serve. 
 This gentleman has seduced a lady under my care. This lady has married without my consent. These are offences punishable by law. (to Walsingham) Arrest him. 
 The fall of an empire, you told me. Did you mean the English empire? Because by God, England will not fall while I am Queen! If that's your prophecy, sir, prophesy again! 
 You want me to tell your majesty only what your majesty chooses to hear? 
 I will not be a toy of the fates! Have I not faced an assassin's bullet and lived? 
 Just tell me there's no certainty. The shadows of ghosts, you said. Any outcome is possible. Give me hope. 
 The forces that shape the world are greater than all of us, majesty. How can I promise you that they'll conspire in your favour, even though you are the Queen? But this much I know. When the storm breaks, each man acts in accordance with his own nature. Some are dumb with terror. Some flee. Some hide. And some spread their wings like eagles and soar on the wind. 
 You're a wise man, Dr Dee. 
 And you, madam, are a very great lady. 
 My lords, I can offer you no words of comfort. 
 What news? Is the fleet at sea? 
 Yes, sir. May God preserve them. 
 What news? 
 The Spanish are off Portland. 
 And the fleet? 
 Still at Plymouth, joined by 
 (bitter) All but me. 
 The bells are to ring in every church in the land. 
 Labourers are to leave the fields and take up arms. The harvest must wait. 
 Release all prisoners. England is their country too. 
 Release Raleigh. He is forgiven... As I too pray to be forgiven... 
 Leave me. All of you. 
 Tu es Deus qui facis mirabilia solus. Notam fecisti in gentibus virtutem tuam... 
 Tell the Queen I will join my 
 Are our ships at sea? Has the fleet left Plymouth? That can't be so hard to know. 
 The enemy has been engaged, majesty. 
 A brave action. Two ships lost. 
 With what gain? 
 The enemy continues to advance. 
 We must attack! What choice do we have? 
 We're decisively outgunned, Drake. We are losing too many 
 (studying the chart of the Armada's progress) There has to be a way of getting inside this crescent formation. 
 Our ships may be smaller but 
 I tell you, we're out-gunned. Do you want to lose the whole fleet? 
 Break their formation and we have 
 We can't get near them. 
 The Spanish are barely a day away, majesty. 
 t would be wise to withdraw to safer ground. 
 I beg you to appreciate the gravity of the situation, majesty. There is very little time. 
 Then we must act. 
 My loving people! We see the sails of the enemy approaching. We hear the Spanish guns over the water. 
 While we stand together no invader shall pass. Let them come with all the armies of Hell, they will not pass. The crowd gives another mighty cheer. 
 So let us sound the advance and 
 Aye! 
 
 (Drop Anchor!) 
 (If we don't drop anchor, we'll 
 They've dropped anchor. These Spanish monsters can't handle our English seas. 
 We have the wind in our favour. Do we go? 
 We go. 
 DRAKE (CONT'D) God speed, my friend. And don't forget to jump. 1 
 Under whose orders is he acting? 
 He was told not to risk any more ships of the fleet. 
 (Raise anchor! Quickly! No - cut the ropes! Cut the ropes!) Ropes are slashed by flailing axes and cut away from the capstan. 
 How many Spanish ships are burning? 
 Not enough. 
 One empire will rise, and one will fall... 
 How many ships are burning? 
 Four. 
 Not enough. He turns his face towards the coast of England. He speaks 
 RALEIGH (CONT'D) 
 Francis. My old friend. 
 3 I come from your brother. 
 What does he want? 
 3 He asks your forgiveness. 
 My forgiveness? 
 I have served your majesty - in all things... 
 I know it, old friend. Don't leave me now. 
 Y ou don't need me any more. Permission - to go - 
 You always did do as you pleased, whether I wanted it or not. I've no doubt you'll do as you please now. 
 Her majesty the Queen! 
 When was the birth? 
 F our nights ago. 
 The mother is well? 
 Thank God. 
 And the child? 
 My son is well. 
 Your Elizabeth has a child. You must be proud. 
 Yes. 
 And fulfilled? 
 As any man can be. Elizabeth looks at him in silence for a long moment. 
 And do you still dream of your shining city, your New World? 
 More than ever. She turns to go. But before she reaches the door, she stops. 
 I'd like to give your son my blessing. 
 I would be honoured. 
 (V.O.) 
