 
 
 
 ... Well,  I mean it. I'm serious -- I do.   You promise and promise, and then  you change your mind, just like  that. 
 (totally oblivious) ... Uh-huh. 
 You wait 'til you ask me for something. Just wait. See if you get it. (CONTINUED) 
 (as above) Toby, hush. Let me just... So concentrated on her driving she doesn't even finish her sentence, she nurses the car upward. Finally the car crests the hill and starts down. Caroline sighs with relief. She turns to Toby with a smile. 
 What'd you say? 
 I said -- for the twentieth time -- if a person promises somebody something, they can't just turn around and take it back. 
 Oh, honey, Jesus. Don't start with that again. 
 Why not? 
 Because I'm the mother, and I get to tell you what to do every minute of your life 'til you're eighteen. Seriously, we've got no money. I can't buy you the moccasins. 
 I bet if you'd promised Roy some moccasins he'd of got 'em. 
 No talk about Roy, okay? And ditto the moccasins. We, can't, afford, them. 
 Yeah, but you did promise... 
 Sue me. Take me to court. Oh, Toby, I know you're disappointed, but... 
 Jack.   Call me Jack. (CONTINUED) 
 You're going to drive me to an early grave: I'm never going to make Salt Lake City. 
 Seriously. If a person can't get a stinking miserable pair of moccasins, at least he ought to be able to choose his own name... (loud) ... and I wanna be called Jack! 
 Fine.  And you can call me... (she thinks) ... Jeanette. Jeanette Marie. 
 Oh, you're so stupid sometimes, I... The BAWLING of an AIRHORN interrupts him. Both of them look through the back window and see a huge tractor- trailer truck, out of control, bearing down on them. Caroline brakes and steers a hard right, SKIDDING the NASH safely onto the side of the road. The truck, its HORN BLASTING steadily, shimmies and slides past them, and then, hideously, fails to make the next curve: it smashes through the guard rails and into empty space, its HORN still BLARING. Caroline and Toby look at each other, then scramble out of the car. 
 (not much heat) Goddamn thing. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, that poor man. There is a pause.   Then Toby speaks: 
 I hope to hell this isn't some kind of omen. Caroline turns to Toby, her face worried. Then she sees the look in Toby's eyes -- he's ragging her. She grins and gives his shoulder a light, affectionate shove. 
 How's this thing work, anyway? 
 (not confident) It makes a black light that, uh, causes uranium traces to glow. 
 And we just walk along the street and find this glowing uranium? 
 Well, it was everywhere in Moab, they say -- just like gold in the gold-rush days. 
 But we were too late in Moab, and that guy at the office said nobody'd found any uranium in Salt Lake City. 
 Well, that means we'll have the place pretty much to ourselves, huh? Honey, this could be a big break for us. If this works out, oh, just think: we'll get us a house, get rid of this damn Nash Ambassador -- no money worries... It'll be like heaven on a June day. 
 Ask me how far we are from Salt Lake City. Toby is instantly awake, excited. Caroline points to a small highway sign and both she and Toby yell out. 
 CAROLINE/TOBY Forty-seven miles to go! 
 If I could have one wish right now -- only one wish -- you know what I'd like? I'd like to burn this damn Nash Ambassador to a crisp. (as Toby laughs) I'm serious. I hate it. I hate the factory that produced it, and I hate the man who invented it. 
 It almost makes me want to see Roy -- he was the only one could make the thing stop overheating. (a beat) My God, he was boring. Boring and mean: you sure got crappy taste in boyfriends. At the mention of Roy's name, Caroline lightly touches the bruise on her right cheekbone. Not enjoying the talk about Roy, she pours the water into the radiator, and speaks directly to the car. 
 I'd like to burn you to the ground. (to Toby; big smile) Let's go get rich in Salt Lake City! 
 You're pulling my leg, right? 
 No, I came here to look for uranium. 
 My God, lady. If you're looking for uranium, why didn't you go to Moab? 
 We went there, but everybody'd beaten us there. We were too late. 
 So you came here just on the chance you'd find uranium? Listen, you mind me saying something to you might sound rude? Lady, you got more courage than you got common sense. 
 Don't ask. 
 That mechanic in Colorado said it needed points. 
 I know. Don't tell me what I already know. This thing's a bottomless pit. I don't know what to do. No matter how much money I pour into it... Suddenly a WOMAN in pedal-pushers and a thin, inexpensive sweater stops. She's vaguely low-class, but friendly and sympathetic. 
 I'd rather be whipped with a belt than have car trouble. 'Course these days I don't have to worry about that. My husband got laid off at the mill, and they repossessed the car, so wherever I wanna go, I just have to hoof it, you know? Caroline smiles, then her face changes. 
 You don't have    a car? (as the    Woman shakes    her head) You want this    one? 
 I... uh... I... 
 You're gonna give our car away? 
 (to the Woman) Seriously. It needs points, and it overheats constantly, but you can have it if you want it, because my hand to God, I can't look at it one more minute. 
 Well, sure... (CONTINUED) 
 Get the bags out. Get the owner's slip out of the glove compartment. We're rid of this son-of-a-bitch pink and white albatross. You don't mind taking a car with a big dent in the passenger door? 
 Hell, no. (she looks) There's no dent there... Caroline draws back her leg and delivers a terrific, flat-footed kick to the door, leaving a dent the size of a dish-pan. 
 Oh, yes there is! Toby hands the Woman the owner's slip, Caroline gives her the keys. 
 ... you really just giving me this car? 
 It's done. It's yours. You got yourself a Nash Ambassador! (to Toby) Let's go! Both of them pick up two bags apiece -- all they have in the world -- and off they go, feeling good. 
 ... find ourselves a cheap room someplace, we'll get you into school, I'll brush up on my typing and get a job, and things'll start looking up. I feel it: the good times are coming. And at least we're rid of that damn Nash Ambassador! (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah, and like Dad used to say, 'We may be broke, but we're never poor.' And later, if we get a house with a big yard, I could get a collie, you know? One like Lad or Grey Dawn. And someday maybe a palomino. And I'm going to try harder in school, too... The two of them walk on -- a bit foolish, but, in an odd way, brave as hell. 
 ... like to give new boys the benefit of the doubt, but this is the second time in two weeks that you've been in front of me, and I don't like that. (picks up a telephone) Now I think you better just call your mother and tell her to come down here. 
 She works.   She's working. Silent, the man continues to hold out the telephone to Toby. Finally he takes it and dials. 
 It wasn't me broke their stupid windows. 
 Liar. 
 Gee, thanks a lot, Mom -- believe them instead of me. 
 If you care anything about me at all, you'll shut up. (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah, well if you'd stayed married to Dad none of this would've ever happened. 
 Look, don't you put that    on my back: I can't make your     father call you. I can't make     your brother write you. They     dumped you. Yes. But it's not      my fault. 
 My head is killing me. Toby heads for his room. 
 What time is it? 
 Seven.    Almost. 
 Why didn't you wake me? 
 I started dinner. The potatoes are frying, and I'm heating up the hot dogs. Caroline sees that he's trying to make it up to her, and pats the bed for him to sit down next to her. He moves to sit beside her. 
 Hold your mother's hand. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm sorry. 
 I know you are, honey. Ah, well -- it wasn't fire, and nobody bled, so I guess we're okay. The TELEPHONE RINGS and she answers it.   When she hears the VOICE on the other end she once again  touches her right cheekbone with a finger -- the spot  where the bruise had been. She sags back against a   wall. 
 Yes... (listens) Yes... (listens) Yes, I know... (listens) You're right... (listens) All right, yes... in an hour, then. Caroline hangs up. 
 Who was that? She closes her eyes. 
 Who was that? Caroline laughs aloud, then slides down the wall until she's on the floor still laughing. 
 We've got a guest for dinner: it's Roy. He tracked us down. Toby groans and falls full-length onto the sofa. 
 ... I found me a room, but it's clear the hell and gone 'cross town. And I think I got a job lined up doin' tune-ups in a Texaco station. How you like it at Winstead's? 
 How do you know where I work? 
 I been here almost a week. 
 You followed me around?    For a week? Watching? Roy doesn't answer.   He just wiggles his eyebrows like Groucho Marx. 
 And how did you ever find me? Again, Roy does the Groucho Marx.    He turns to Toby. 
 You like the rifle, Toby?    'Jack,' I mean. 
 It's the best present I ever got. I just love it. (to Caroline) I'm going to pretend I'm shooting. 
 Don't point that thing at anybody or I won't teach you to shoot. 
 It's not loaded! 
 You heard me:    anybody or any thing. 
 It's got no bullets, for God's sake. 
 Don't make me speak to you again. (CONTINUED) 
 I'll point it at the sky, then. Caroline sighs. Toby opens a screenless window and points the gun up into the night sky, pretending to fire it over and over. Caroline starts to clear the table. Roy jumps up to help her. 
 Don't.   Toby's still up. Roy leans back, smiling, and eyes Caroline. 
 You are one sweet thing, baby: just the sight of you makes my dick hard. He pulls her to him, starting to kiss her. She fends him off, looking worriedly toward the room where Toby's light burns. 
 Aw, he won't hear anything. Again he pulls her toward him; again she turns her head from the kiss. 
 Shit, baby, I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. I'm just so glad to see you. He slides toward Caroline, kisses her. This time she accepts the kiss -- feels she has no choice. 
 #1 Hi. 
 Hello. The Woman stops to take a breather, lights a cigarette, pokes her companion. 
 #1 My Lord, look at the eyes on him -- won't he be a heartbreaker in three, four years? 
 #2 Bedroom eyes. Toby smiles. 
 #1 You live in the neighborhood, sweetie? 
 Over there. (a beat) I won't be here long, though, 'cause my dad's coming to get me. 
 #1 Oh, yes? 
 Yeah. I'm gonna live on his ranch in Phoenix. The "Lazy B," it's called. (CONTINUED) 
 #2 That sounds like fun. 
 It is. I've got a palomino horse and a collie, and Dad lets us go on hunts all by ourselves. He gave me this Winchester .22, and last year I shot a mountain lion with it. And Lad -- that's my dog -- found a nest of rattlesnakes one time, and killed all twelve of them... The two Women exchange a glance.     It's obvious the boy is lying. 
 What're you doing home so -- (as he sees suitcases) We going someplace? 
 We sure are. 
 Where? 
 I don't know.    Got any suggestions? 
 Phoenix. 
 Good. I was thinking of Phoenix or Seattle -- lots of opportunities in both those places. 
 What about your fabulous boyfriends? What about the fabulous, boring Roy? Is he coming, too? (CONTINUED) 
 Not if I can help it. I looked out the window at work today, and he was parked across the street, watching. 
 Roy's so uncool. So boring. 
 You liked him well enough last night. (imitating Toby) 'Oh, Roy, I just love my rifle so much! It's the bestest present ever!' 
 Oh, shut up. But he's smiling, completely unbothered. Suddenly Caroline laughs, stands up, and begins to close the suitcases. Toby laughs, too. 
 Now? We're going now?     What about all the food? 
 Leave it. 
 Even the canned stuff? 
 Leave it! They grab the four heavy suitcases and head out the door. Both of them are laughing. 
 Well, ask him when the next one to Phoenix is. 
 Tomorrow morning, eleven forty-five. (CONTINUED) 
 What about Seattle? 
 (consults a list) Leaves in nine minutes. They look at each other. 
 ... I've always had a good head for figures, and if I could get my C.P.A. license, I believe we could make a real go of it in Seattle. I'll advertise for roommates, and I bet we find us a real cute house to rent. 
 If there's a big yard, can I get a collie? 
 Sure. Oh, honey, I feel a wind at my back: I think this is going to work out good. 
 (as they board bus) Yeah -- like heaven on a June day. The DOORS of the bus close. WHOOSH! The bus begins to move. Caroline and Toby's faces are at the window: Seattle or bust. DISSOLVE TO: 
 (O.S.) ... and if you cut school again I'll just wear you out -- do you hear me? I'm tired of it! 
 (O.S.) Yeah, yeah... Toby exits the house. But, Jesus, what a new Toby: he's turned cool. A few months have passed.  He now wears T-shirts and jeans which ride way low on his hips. As he walks along, he combs his hair into a duck's ass in back, and forward into a curl at the center of his forehead. He's 1957 hip -- or thinks he is.  He strolls on, feeling cool. 
 Hey, Terry. 
 Hey, Jack. What'd your mom say about skipping school today? 
 Who listens? 
 You go over to Wanda's house last night? (as Toby nods) You make out good? (as Toby nods again) How good? 
 I fucked her 'til her nose bled. 
 Sure you did!    Oh, Wolff, you're rich. 
 #1 Oh look -- it's Elvis, Elvis, and Elvis. 
 Excuse me, but does your face hurt? 'Cause it's killing me. With that piece of high wit, they're out of the room. 
 Oh, Lois. Oh, baby, come here -- I got six hot inches just waiting for you. 
 Man, look at her! Look at that body-y-y-y. 
 (continues licking screen) Um-m-m-m. M-M-M. Oh, Annette, I want you. I want you so bad. 
 Oh, babybabybabybabybaby... You make my dick hard! The three carry on for a few more seconds. THREE OF THEM Yum, yum, yum. (CONTINUED) 
 That belt just makes it. 
 It does pick up the green, doesn't it? 
 And you say he's getting serious already? 
 Yes, I think. He keeps talking about marriage, keeps saying he wants to meet Toby. 
 Well, that's it -- three dates and you got 'im good. 
 I don't know if I want him -- She stops as Toby enters the kitchen. (CONTINUED) 
 Don't want who? 
 (about Toby) Little pitchers... 
 Well, it's the tough guy who can't be bothered to go to school. 
 (to Toby) Oh, it's nothing -- we were talking about Dwight. I told you about Dwight. 
 He the one drives down from the boondocks? The mechanic? Dwight. What a stupid name. (he draws the name out) Dwiiiight. Duhhhhwight. Dwight-tah-h-h-h. Dwighttahhhhh. There is a KNOCK    on the front door. Toby sticks his head around the door,    looking into the living room. A man is outlined against    the sunset, only his black silhouette is visible. It is     our first glimpse of DWIGHT. Has the man heard him?     Toby doesn't know for sure. Caroline brings Dwight into the kitchen.     He is older than her, an attractive-enough man. He     is well-built, has a full head of brown hair, and very    white teeth. Those are his good points. On the minus     side: his over- eagerness to please, his nervous smiles    and his clothes. He wears two-tone shoes, a hand-painted    tie, and a monogrammed handkerchief, folded beyond    perfection, in the pocket. Caroline introduces him to Marian and Kathy.     Then she introduces Dwight to Toby. Dwight is all smiles. 
 Would you like coffee before we go? Or a Coke? 
 You know, I believe I could stand a cup of java. (CONTINUED) 
 So you're Toby. 
 No. 
 You're not Toby? 
 No. 
 Oh, he wants to be called 'Jack.' It's so silly... ever since he read Jack London. 
 Well, I'll call him anything he wants. (to Toby, confidential) I always say people can call me anything they want, long as they don't call me late for supper! Kathy and Marian think it's pretty funny.     They laugh. Caroline smiles. Toby just stares. 
 So, Jack, you like school? 
 No. 
 He might like it if he ever went there and tried it. 
 Oh, have another cookie, Marian -- keep your strength up. 
 I'd like to just yank that nasty tongue of yours out by the roots. 
 (to Dwight, light) My son's decided to try to drive me into an early grave. Truly. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 CAROLINE (CONT'D) (to Toby; not so light) You straighten up and be polite, you hear me? Dwight takes a swallow of the coffee.     His eyes widen. 
 Who made this? 
 I did... 
 Well, well, well, all I can say is that you people are pretty lucky to live in a house where -- oh. Marian puts a cigarette into her mouth. Dwight jumps up, pulls a velvet case from his pocket and extracts a mono- grammed Zippo. He snaps open the top of the lighter against his leg, and holds the flame in front of Marian's face. She lights her cigarette. Then Dwight perform the Zippo drama in reverse. What a conversation stopper.     Finally, Kathy speaks to Toby. 
 I hear you're invited up to Dwight's next week for Thanksgiving. 
 Aw, you'll love it. Great air, great water. For scenery, all you have to do is step outside your front door and open your eyes. And there's a turkey shoot Thanksgiving Day. Your mom said you might like it, so I signed you up. Toby sits up, eager. 
 Really? I can shoot my Winchester? Great! I bet I could be the one to get the turkey. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, amazing: it can sit up and talk like a normal human being. (notices the time) Dwight, we're going to be late. She grabs her coat (which Dwight jumps up to hold for her) and they exit. As Dwight leaves he kisses his hand, then throws the kiss toward Marian and Kathy. The instant the front door slams: TOBY                MARIAN                      KATHY What a geek.      I love a man knows      He's so appealing. how to dress. 
 I want you to be polite to Dwight this weekend. 
 (buck-toothed speech) Okay. 
 I mean it, now. 
 (buck-toothed speech) I said 'Okay,' didn't I? 
 Hey, c'mon, maybe the weekend'll be fun... maybe Concrete will be pretty. (CONTINUED) 
 (buck-toothed speech) Oh, Concrete, my favorite town. Welcome to beautiful Concrete! 
 And stop that. 
 (buck-toothed speech) Stop what? 
 Sometimes I could kill you as free as I could eat a bite. 
 (buck-toothed speech) Ditto. A car stops and through a window, we see Dwight. Caroline turns to Toby. 
 Please be nice. Toby stops the buck-toothed thing and speaks normally. 
 All right. 
 (V.O.) ... air like wine at my place, and I don't mind saying I wouldn't live anywhere else, and that's the God's honest truth. There's good schools, honest people, and some of the best fishing in the world. Ted Williams -- you like baseball, Toby? That is, Jack, I mean -- you like baseball? 'Cause Ted Williams, whom I believe is one of the all-time greats, is also a world-class angler. Many's the day he and I've talked over the best way to get a fish to say yes to a hook. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (V.O.) (CONT'D) (a beat) Hunting, too: there's game everywhere you look. I don't think I flatter myself by saying that I'm something of a whiz with a rifle, and Concrete gives me every opportunity to prove it... 
 They always show you salmon fighting to get upstream, but they never show you what they look like when they get there. Her face strained, Caroline leans over for a closer look. The salmon swim in slow, stunned circles, some with an eye missing or hanging by a membrane, a hideous sight. 
 It's pitiful.     Awful. 
 They'll spawn, and then they'll die. They're dying now. 
 I hope to hell it's not an omen. Caroline has to fight back a smile. 
 So here we go. Welcome to Concrete. Dwight's home sweet home. Finest people in the whole state of Washington, you ask me. Lots of churches, too. A neighbor of mine says, "Looking for nice churches, come to Concrete. Looking for sin, go to hell." I think that's funny... Caroline and Toby are severely underimpressed with their first impression of Concrete. 
 All the houses are converted Army barracks, made into duplexes -- Three children exit the    house. SKIPPER, a pleasant boy who is average in every    way, is 17. NORMA is 18, slow- spoken and sensual, Toby    cannot take his eyes off her. The third is PEARL, two    years younger than Toby. Pearl has a bald spot the size    of a dollar, high on the side of her head. 
 Well. Let's see here. Kids, this is my pretty friend, Caroline Wolff, and her boy To... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (CONT'D) (he catches himself) Jack Wolff. These are my kids: Skipper, Norma and my baby, Pearl. Everybody says hello, shakes hands, then they all head into the house. 
 Okay, so that was the living room; over here is the kitchen -- I plan on getting all new fixtures in here -- and down that hall are the three bedrooms and the bath. He stops at an extra, no-particular-purpose, nondescript room furnished only by two easy chairs and a card table. 
 This is sort of a lounging area. (as nobody says anything) You know, just in case you want to... 
 ... lounge. Skipper snorts with laughter, but cuts it off when Dwight gives him a look. Toby, trying to be good, bites his lip to keep from laughing. 
 (about a gas station) And over there's where I work. 
 (to Skipper and Norma) How about you guys? You like it here? They glance at each other. 
 SKIPPER                        NORMA Fine.                          Yeah, it's fine. 
 It's a little isolated, is all. 
 Not that isolated. 
 Well, maybe not that isolated. Pretty isolated, though. 
 Aw, there's plenty to do in Concrete if you kids would take a little initiative. When I was growing up we didn't have T.V. -- we used our imaginations. We read the classics. We played musical instruments. You show me a bored kid, I'll show you a lazy kid. 
 I didn't know you played an instrument, Dwight. What do you play? 
 (one-half second's hesitation) Sax.   Tenor sax. Skipper and Norma glance at each other, then look away. Caroline takes a cigarette from her purse. Again Dwight jumps to her service: we are once more treated to the mini-drama of Dwight unsheathing the Zippo from its velvet case, opening the top on his pants leg, etc. 
 (back to Skipper and Norma) How's the school here? (CONTINUED) 
 There isn't one. We go to Chinook. 
 Chinook High. 
 It's a few miles downriver. 
 Forty miles. 
 Come off it -- it's not that far. 
 Yeah, I clocked it: thirty-nine miles. In spite of the fact that he's eager for this day to go well, Dwight's bottom teeth begin to show. 
 Ah, you'd bellyache if the goddam school was in your fugging back yard. Just shut your god- damn pie-hole. They all shut their pie-holes. The six walk in a tense, uncomfortable silence for five full beats. Then Pearl tries to help out: 
 I'm in fifth grade. 
 'Turkey shoot' is just a figure of speech. 
 There's no real turkey? 
 No, it's just regulation paper targets. It's a test of skill. (a beat) And, Jack, I just found out yesterday that they won't let kids shoot. 
 But you said I could! 
 I know, but they got it all screwed up somehow and told me wrong at first. Toby starts to argue, but Caroline touches his arm. 
 Dwight, you did tell him. 
 (an edge) I don't make the rules, Caroline. If I made the rules, I might make different ones, but I don't make the rules. 
 Wolff.   Caroline Wolff. 
 You mean you want to enter? I think it's against the rules. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, that sign says this is an N.R.A. club, and I'm a dues-paying N.R.A. member. That gives me the right to participate in the activities of other chapters. 
 You'll be the only woman shooting. Caroline just smiles. The Man shrugs, takes her money and writes down her name. 
 That second-place trophy ain't bad, honey. 
 (big smile) Then you won't feel too bad about carrying it home, will you? Several people laugh, and the Man, bested, turns away. Everyone turns quiet to watch the Man shoot. He is evidently the one who's nervous, though, for after he SHOOTS and waits, the score is raised: 95. There is an immediate stir -- Caroline can win if she shoots a virtually perfect round. Dwight's name is called. He takes his position, but clowns around, SHOOTING first left-handed, then right- handed, then with both eyes closed. His score is raised: 24. There is scattered laughter, and Dwight leads it -- hell, it's all a joke to him, his attitude says. Caroline takes her stance. Rock-steady, she SHOOTS her TEN SHOTS and waits. And then it comes: 98. She's won. The second-place Man wheels away angrily, but everyone else congratulates the laughing Caroline, as an official presents her with a small trophy of a gold rifle on a pedestal, and a huge ham. In the midst of the hubbub, Toby manages to get close enough to congratulate his mother. Caroline glances toward Dwight as she whispers to Toby: 
 That was for you, honey. 
 (impressed) I didn't know you were a member of the N.R.A. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm a little behind in my dues -- Thirty-six years behind. 
 What gives? 
 Mom won the turkey shoot. 
 Oh, boy. Now we're in for it -- he thinks he's some kind of big hunter. 
 Well, he killed a deer once. 
 That was with the car. They all laugh. 
 I got just one thing to say. (as everyone stiffens) I'm sitting at the table with the best damn shot in the county! Everybody relaxes, and general conversation begins. 
 So what do you think? 
 They're okay. What's that bald spot on Pearl's head? Ugh. 
 Some sort of infection. 
 Norma's nice. 
 They're all nice, but Dwight keeps rushing me, keeps talking about marriage. And I don't really want to get married -- not now anyway. 
 That's fine with me. (a beat; new tone) I wish you would've stayed married to Dad. 
 Oh, don't wish Duke back on me. God. 
 That woman he married?    Is she really rich? 
 Like King Midas. Okay, look, we'll go back to Seattle and see how things go. I've been thinking about taking a course in stenotyping. A court reporter's pay is real high. Kathy got engaged, so either I find us another roommate or I've got to make some more money. And this stenotyping thing sounds just right. This could turn out good, honey. 
 I mean I blew it off, man -- I blew his fuckin' turkey's head off. Terry Silver takes a long slow drag on his cigarette. The other boys glance at each other: they don't buy it. 
 With a .22. 
 Fuckin' A.    Winchester .22.   Pump. 
 Wolff, you are so full of shit. 
 Don't believe me -- see if I care. 
 All a .22 bullet would do is make a hole in his head. Toby takes a drag on his cigarette. 
 One bullet, maybe. 
 Oh. Oh, I see -- you hit the turkey more than once. While he was flying. In the head. 
 ... exactly what I wanted for my dress. It's a Simplicity pattern, and I'm pretty sure I can make it myself. It's got big puff sleeves... Caroline takes out a cigarette. Then everybody jumps as Toby yells and jumps up knocking his chair over backwards. 
 Oh! Toby grabs Caroline's lighter, and begins to imitate Dwight: saying, "Oh!" and "Oh, yes!" and Oh, my!" and "Here, let me!" and "I'll do that!" It's a mean, accurate imitation of Dwight. All three women laugh in spite of themselves. Caroline keeps saying "Jack, that's enough," and Marian says, "Dwight's not that bad." But they can't help laughing. Toby offers the other two women a light, then offers a broom, the back door, and the refrigerator a light. 
 What did he do? 
 MR. SHIPPY He violated the school property and flouted the law. 
 Can you say that in English? (CONTINUED) 
 MR. SHIPPY He wrote obscene words on the wall. 
 (to Toby) Did you do it? (as he shakes his head "no") He didn't do it. 
 MR. SHIPPY (strong) He wrote obscene words on the wall. 
 What obscene words? 
 MR. SHIPPY (after a beat) 'Fuck you.' 
 That's one obscene word. Mr. Shippy looks stymied.   There is a pause. 
 MR. SHIPPY Look, Mrs. Wolff, Jack's teachers, like him but they think he's fallen in with the wrong kind of friends. (peers at Toby's hand) Is that nicotine stain on your fingers? (as Toby shakes his head "no") I hope not. Let me tell you a story: I started smoking in college. Two packs a day. I ate 'em. (a beat) One night I went to have a cigarette and lo and behold, the pack was empty. I went downstairs and started to rummage through the garbage cans. But as I reached down -- I mean, right down into a garbage can -- I suddenly thought, 'Whoa. Hold on right there, Buster.' I went back to my room and to this day I haven't smoked another cigarette. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 MR. SHIPPY Well, back to the point:   I think two weeks' suspension. 
 So what shall we do? 
 What do you mean? 
 Ever since Duke and I got divorced, you're a different boy. I know he never calls you and I could kill him for it -- but that's how Duke is. And Gregory's in Princeton now, so I guess... (refocusing) So what shall we do? Because this isn't working. (a beat) We barely have enough money, Kathy's moving out, and on top of it all, you've gone wild. You lie... (CONTINUED) 
 No I don'... 
 Yes, you do. You steal from Marian's purse -- I just can't handle you anymore, and it scares me. I don't know what to do. So, you tell me what to do. 
 (he means it) I can be better. I will be. (it bursts out of him) And I hate the way I am anymore! I don't know why I do it! (a beat) What about that stenotyping thing you were gonna do? With peculiar intensity, Caroline speaks in a soft, odd voice: 
 It won't happen. It won't happen. It won't happen. Things aren't going to turn out well, things aren't going to start looking up, and it's never going to be like heaven on a June day. There is no uranium. There is no stenotyping. There is no C.P.A. license. There isn't... She stands for a few moments as if listening for a far-off sound. 
 ... I talked to Dwight: after Christmas, he wants you to come up to Concrete and live with him for a few months -- go to school there. 
 What are you going to do, just give me away to him? 
 If you two can get along, if it works out, then I guess he and I might get married. (CONTINUED) 
 I can't think of anything else to do. But first I want your approval. Again the two stare at each other. 
 All right. Caroline nods, turns away. 
 I put in both your sweaters. You wear them now, the nights are so chilly up there. 
 Okay.    I will. 
 You don't have to go if you don't want to, honey. 
 No, it's okay.       I'll go. O.S. we hear a KNOCKING and Dwight's cheery voice. 
 (O.S.) Here I am, you lucky people! 
 Hey, look:   is that a raccoon or a beaver. Dwight swerves deliberately to hit the animal. There is a sickening THUMP, and Dwight stops. As he backs up: 
 Go get it -- the pelt's worth fifty bucks, minimum. 
 That thing's probably got rabies... 
 (low) Get it! 
 I'm a little sick to my stomach. 
 Sick to your stomach?   A hotshot like you? 
 I'm not a hotshot. (CONTINUED) 
 That's what I hear. I hear you're a real hotshot. Come and go where you please, do what you please. Isn't that right? Yeah, regular man about town. Performer, too. That right, Jack? You a performer? 
 No, sir. 
 That's a goddamned lie. Dwight keeps glancing from the road to Toby, and back again. 
 If there's one thing I can't stomach, it's a liar. 
 I'm not a liar. 
 Sure you are. You or Marian. Is Marian a liar? She says you're quite the little performer. Is that a lie? You tell me that's a lie and we'll drive back to Seattle so you can call her a liar to her face. You want me to do that? 
 No. 
 Then you must be the one's a liar, right? (as Toby nods) And you're a performer? 
 I guess. 
 You guess? You guess? Let's see your act. Go on. Do your act. (when Toby is silent) I'm waiting. 
 I can't. (CONTINUED) 
 Sure you can. 
 No, sir. 
 Do me.     I hear you do me. Again Toby shakes his head, and then gasps as the CAR SKIDS hideously close to the cliff's edge. Dwight is oblivious to the danger. 
 Yeah, I hear you're good at doing me. Here. Do me with the lighter. Go on. Take it. Dwight holds out the velvet-covered Zippo, driving with one hand, and the car is all over the road. Dwight puts the lighter back into his pocket. The car slows a bit. 
 Hotshot. You pull that hotshot stuff around me and I'll break every bone in your body. You understand me? (a beat) You're in for a change, mister. You got that? Huh? You got that good? (so scary) You're in for a whole 'nother ballgame. 
 Skipper, go get that washtub out back, and Pearl, bring the hose around and fill it up. Hotshot and me hit a beaver. We'll salt him down. Skipper and Pearl move out on the run. Dwight slits the beaver from throat to testicles, guts it, then pulls the skin off. (CONTINUED) 
 I know you think you're better than me. Caroline told me all about your rich daddy and your prep-school brother, but your fancy days are over: you're a Concrete boy now. I'm gonna give you a big injection of Concrete. That's right -- inoculate you. Oh, my, yes. You're gonna find out that in Concrete we have to be able to do more than sing Fats Domino songs, we work... Skipper and Pearl bring the tub with four blue stars painted on its side, Dwight plops the skinned beaver into the water. The hairless carcass stands in the tub, its chin on the edge. Pearl shudders and turns away. 
 You'll be in Miss Graham's class? 
 Yeah, is she nice? 
 She's okay.   She's pretty. 
 I hate changing schools. 
 Speaking of changing, I had a talk with Jack on the way up here, and he says he wants to be a better boy. And that's good, 'cause things weren't going well for him in Seattle: the police actually came to his house to talk to Caroline about him. Uh-huh, the police. 
 (very low; to Toby) Criminal. (CONTINUED) 
 So here's what I think: I think idle hands are the devil's workshop, and so I found our Jack a little something to do. (to Toby) I picked up two barrels of horse- chestnuts in the park. You can spend your evenings hulling 'em. And I enrolled you in the Boy Scouts, and you've got a paper route, starting Monday, every afternoon from three to six-thirty -- pays fifty-five bucks a month. What d'you say? 
 I'll do it. (means it) I want to be... better. 
 That's what I like to hear. Okay, you guys get these dishes cleaned up. Let's show Jack how we do it in Concrete. 
 (reading) 'Of course I prayed -- and did God care? He cared as much as on the air a bird had stamped her foot and cried, "Give me".' Now. What is the tone of this short poem? 
 Is it religious? 
 No -- even though it talks about God, I wouldn't say it was religious. 
 It's sad. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, closer, maybe. But no. There is a pause.     Finally, Toby raises his hand. 
 Jack? 
 It's angry, sort of bitter. 
 Very good, Jack. Bull's-eye. From the front of    the room, a tall,   thin, effeminate boy, ARTHUR GAYLE,    turns to look at   Toby and holds the gaze for three    full beats, then   turns around and faces the front.     What the hell does   it mean? 
 ... 'cause I don't believe that crap, you know? I believe there is such a thing as a bad boy -- bad clear through. And it's gonna be my job to turn you around, to kill or cure. Kill. Or. Cure. Understand? And I'm up to the job, oh yes, believe me, hotshot, I am ready, willing and able to take you on -- you and that jibagoo music you like to sing. I'm just the guy to knock that music out of your head and put in some respect and obedience. (a pause) Now your mother has just about washed her hands of you -- that's obvious, 'cause she's shipped you off up here. I mean, she has had it with you. She told me: she said 'Dwight, I just can't handle him anymore.' So don't go crying to Mama, 'cause Mama won't listen. Mama is sick to death of her baby boy. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (CONT'D) (a beat) And your rich Daddy Warbucks and your Princeton brother don't give a shit about you, 'cause Caroline told me they haven't even written in over two years. So it looks like I'm all you got now -- it's just you and me. Feels sort of inevitable, doesn't it, hotshot? It's like we were fated for each other, like I'm the one guy on Earth could set you straight. And don't you ever think I won't enjoy doing it, 'cause... 
 (V.O.) Dear Toby, I sure do miss you, honey -- the house is like a tomb since you left. So quiet. My only entertainment tonight was watching Marian eat a whole pint of ice cream. I hope you're liking it up in Concrete. I just know you'll try hard in school and be good and mind Dwight. I worry about you so much, and I hope this will be just what you need. 55   C)   (DAY)   Toby rubs futilely at his yellow hands with      55 a cloth  and watches Norma, who is drying her hair in her  bedroom. She bends over so her head is in a patch  of sunlight. Toby is riveted by the girl and her  hair gleaming in the sunlight. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Dear Mom, Thanks for the birthday present. It fit fine. You don't have to worry so much. I'm okay here. The weather is nice, and I like Scouts a lot. Dwight took us all to see Bridge on the River Kwai. I liked it. So things are all right with me, except for stupid Pearl, who I hate. Don't worry all the time... 55   E)   (NIGHT) Dwight introduces Toby at a Scout              55 meeting. All the other boys have on Scout uniforms. 55   F)   (DAY) Toby is on the utility porch  husking the 55 horse chestnuts. His hands are now  orange. Pearl stands in the doorway watching him work. Norma appears beside Pearl. Norma's face  turns sympathetic. 
 You remind me of that boy in the fairy tale who had to spend twenty years sifting sand to find a golden needle. Remember that one? Toby doesn't answer. The two girls move away.    Toby sighs, and picks up another chestnut. 55   G)   (DAY) Toby, keeping an eye on the door to make 55 sure he's unobserved, reaches under the mattress of Skipper's bed and pulls out several billfold-sized black and white pornographic photographs. The hair styles of the women in them are decades old. Toby takes the photographs into the bathroom, shutting the door behind him. 
 (V.O.) Dear Toby, Just a note before going to bed. Dwight tells me that the two of you are getting along like a house afire. I'm so glad. I wanted this to work out for you. You left your sock cap here. Do you need it...? (CONTINUED) 
 That's no fair. You make me sick. I don't know why you have to live here, anyway. Daddy says we should think of it like you were a charity kid. Toby takes out his comb, combs his hair a bit, then holds it out to Pearl, an exaggerated look of innocence on his face. 
 Wanna comb your hair, Pearl? Pearl covers her bald spot with one hand. 
 Probably you do, since you've got such pretty hair.  I know if I had hair as pretty as yours, Pearl, I'd comb it all the time. 
 (O.S.) Open the hell up! I got us a treat! Pearl opens the door revealing a beaming Dwight holding two dishpans piled high with snow. We see through the doorway that the sun is shining and there isn't snow anywhere. 
 We're gonna have snowcream! 
 ... heard there was a fresh snow this morning, so I drove up to the mountains. I stopped in a field where it was all clean. I was finished packing it up high when somebody said... (prissy voice) This's private property, in case you're interested. (normal voice) I turned around and there was this woman... (he shudders) Yechh! Ugliest woman I ever saw -- ugly as a madman's ass she was. And frowning on top of it. Everybody laughs. 
 Oh, Daddy! 
 She was! 
 (to Pearl; soft; happy) You're ugly as a madman's ass. 
 No, you are. 
 What'd you say to the ugly woman? 
 I didn't say nothin' -- I ran. Everybody laughs again.    They eat in silence for a beat. 
 I'm gonna get you a Scout uniform, Jack. 
 (surprised, pleased) Really? (CONTINUED) 
 Can I join the Girl Scouts? 
 I'm getting one for me, too. Don't believe in doing anything halfway. If you're serious about the Scouts... (as Toby nods) ... then I want you to do it right. We'll do it right together. Dwight takes out a magazine entitled Boy's Life.    He hands it to Toby. 
 I got you a subscription to this. I'll take the price out of your paper route money. 
 Boy's Life? 
 It's the official Scout magazine. Tells about what it means to be a Scout, what kind of boy you need to be, and, oh, about merit badges and stuff like that. Toby opens the book at random, reads from it. 
 'Suggested good turns a Scout can do: assist a foreign  boy with some English grammar.  Help put out a burning field.  Give water to a crippled dog.'  I could do those. 
 Hell, yes, you could. You're a bright kid. I want this Scout thing done right, okay? Toby nods, enthusiastic, happy. 
 I'm not going. 
 (O.S.) The hell you say. 
 I'm not. Cut down Skipper's old stuff, and he's twice as big as me -- I'm gonna stay home. 
 (O.S.) You're gonna shit and fall back in it -- that's all you're gonna do. Now get out here. 
 (to Pearl) Shut your pie-hole. (to Toby) You look fine. 
 I look like an idiot. 
 You act like an idiot, you look fine. 
 You said you'd get me a new uniform. 
 I said I'd try to get you a new uniform. Beside, this one is new -- new to you. (CONTINUED) 
 But look at the sleeves and how it hangs down between my legs! 
 Oh piss and moan -- all you can do is piss and moan. 
 Yeah, piss and moan -- I notice you're all jazzed up in new stuff. 
 They didn't have second-hand uniforms in my size. 
 Oh, yeah, pull the other leg, it's got bells on it! Toby throws himself down on the sofa. 
 And what're you gonna tell Caroline this weekend? You gonna say you wouldn't join the Scouts because... him didn't wike his widdle uniform? Dwight picks up the copy of Boy's Life and thumbs through it, He reads: 
 'No boy given over to dissipation or negativity can stand the gaff. He quickly tires and gives up. He is the type who usually lacks courage at the crucial moment. He cannot take punishment and come back smiling.' Dwight looks at Toby expectantly.   Toby hesitates, then gives up. 
 All right, but this stinks. Toby walks outside.   Dwight follows. 
 Hotshot, you don't know it yet, but me and Concrete are in your blood. We're going to make a man of you yet -- and in years to come you'll thank me. You'll remember me. Me and Concrete. 
 Oh, I missed you! 
 Me, too. 
 You look good.     How are you? 
 I'm okay.    I'm fine. 
 I said to hell with the budget and bought a roast. I made dumplings -- God, what's wrong with your hands? 
 It's just juice from some chestnuts -- it'll wear off. 
 I hope so.   My, your hair's short. 
. 
 (to Dwight) Well, it's done him a world of good to be up there with you. 
 Oh, we have us some pretty good times. Don't we, Jack? Have us some good times? Toby, not looking away from the radio, nods. 
 We go to the Scouts together every week. He's got a good start already on merit badges... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (CONT'D) (to Toby) ... though he does concentrate too much on the easy ones, like the one for dental hygiene... (to Caroline) ... and we had snowcream one night, and, oh, just lots of stuff. Caroline glances at Toby, then at Dwight, then back again. 
 How is it in Concrete? 
 It's fine. 
 School? 
 School's school. My grades are okay. 
 You haven't been in any trouble? (as he shakes his head) Good. How're you and Dwight? 
 He made us all snowcream, like he said. 
 Stop that, honey. 
 What? 
 (stops walking) Well, you've got your eyes out of focus. Look at me. Now, are things all right? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm fine. 
 You swear?   You act odd. 
 No, I'm fine. 
 Well, good. I'd feel awful if it hadn't worked out. A pause. 
 I told Dwight I'd marry him. In two weeks. I don't know what else to do. I mean, he's been helping me with the rent since Kathy left. And you need a father. I think it's the best thing all the way around -- what d'you think? There is a pause as they look at each other. 
 I think it's the best thing. 
 I think it's the best thing, too. Caroline smiles, smooths his hair, then goes into the house. Toby continues to walk. Suddenly, he spins around and tears out toward the house. By God, he'll tell her just what's been going on. He bangs through the front door and up the stairs. 
 Hungry. He makes another sign. 
 Food. He makes another sign. 
 Want. He makes another sign. 
 Great mystery. He makes another sign. 
 Father. He stares silently at himself in the mirror. 
 Now that's a song. Not all this Elvis Presley shit. Elvis sings about like I do brain surgery. He imitates Elvis -- moves his hips slightly and sings a few notes: 
 '... uh-huh-huh, my blue suede shoes.' Dwight gives Toby a flash of his teeth and Toby smiles back. 
 Let's get this place ready for Caroline. They begin painting.   After only a few strokes, though, Toby looks doubtful. (CONTINUED) 
 It's so white. 
 I got a good deal on this paint. (stands back; appraises) It'll darken up when it dries. 
 What?   I like it. It looks clean. 
 Yeah, but it makes everything else look so dark. Dwight's face changes.      He has an idea. 
 
 Sort of stands out, doesn't it? 
 Yeah, you could say that. 65   G)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 They paint the Baldwin white. Dwight hesitates, then starts to paint the foot pedals. 65   H)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 Dwight's face tells us that something still doesn't suit him. He glances at Toby, Toby nods, and they converge on the piano. 65   J)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 Very carefully, Dwight and Toby finish painting the dark ivory keys to match the rest of the room. ELVIS SCREAMS OUT the last line, "You can do anything, but stay off of my blue suede shoes!" 
 Oh! Oh, I'm so sorry... don't know what's the matter with me... you're right... it does look clean... But she can't stop laughing.    Her laughter has just a tinge of hysteria. 
 M-m-m. There's not a straight line on you -- everything's curved. Caroline draws him up   to her, and they kiss. Then Dwight turns Caroline   on her side, away from him, pre- paring to enter her.    Caroline makes a small sound of protest, turning back   toward him. 
 Oh, Dwight, not like that.    Not this time -- not tonight. 
 It's good this way. 
 But I want to see your face while we make love. 
 (uncomfortable laugh) Oh, no -- I just don't... uh... like that way. (CONTINUED) 
 You mean you don't like to make love face to face? 
 (same laugh) No, I don't like it. I can't handle it -- I don't like to see the face. 
 You mean ever? 
 But that's grotesque... 
 (stung; flares up) Look, you can get it doggie-style or you can get it laying on your side -- those are your only choices. This is my house, and I get to say. Wherever McGinty sits is the head of the table, you know? Disgusted, Caroline turns back away from Dwight. He shifts down on the bed a few inches, again preparing to enter her. 
 Happy Wedding Breakfast! Caroline's eyes    are red and swollen. Dwight turns ON a RADIO, sips his    coffee, and chats with Norma. Toby gives Norma's rear-end    an appreciative glance, then comes up behind Caroline,    speaking sotto voce: 
 So how's the bride? (CONTINUED) 
 Don't. 
 The bride doesn't want to chat? 
 Stop it. 
 Well, the bride is sure snotty this morning. Smiling, Toby waits for some response to his teasing, but there is none. She turns away and sits at the table. 
 What's his name again? 
 Arthur Gayle. 
 What a homo. 
 He sure walks like a girl. 
 And runs like one and talks like one and throws like one. Probably takes a pee like one too -- just squats right down. 
 He smarted off to me the other day -- told me I was a bourgeois. 
 What the frig's a bourgeois? (CONTINUED) 
 (to Toby) Call him a sissy. 
 Why? 
 Just see what he says. 
 Yeah, do it. By this time Arthur is next to them. Smiling a superior smile, he stops and glances at all three of them as if they were just the oddest things he's ever seen. Then his eye falls on Toby's yellow hands. 
 Oh, my, my -- look at all that yellow: Didn't your mama teach you to wash your hands after you pee? 
 Oh, shut up. 
 (rolls his eyes; heavily sarcastic) Now that's what I like -- an insult with some originality. Did you just make that up? Just now? So clever. 
 Why don't you take a long walk off a short pier? 
 (though he's not nearly close enough to smell Toby's breath) Excuse me, but has anyone ever told you your breath would gag a maggot? Both of Toby's friends laugh. 
 Well, at least I'm not a great big sissy! Two things happen instantly: the superior smile vanishes from Arthur's face, and Toby's friends exchange a single expectant look: "Here it comes." (CONTINUED) 
 GET UP! GET UP, YOU SON OF A BITCHING MAGGOT GAGGER! I'LL STOMP YOUR GUTS OUT! I'LL KILL YOU! Toby gets up, and again Arthur sails in with those wild roundhouse swings. Then Toby gets in a solid punch to Arthur's face that rocks the bigger boy back on his heels. Arthur grabs his head and roars like a wounded buffalo. Almost immediately Arthur's eye puffs and begins to swell shut. Snot streaming from both nostrils, still roaring, Arthur flies at Toby again. Toby closes with him, to hold those flailing arms still, and the two stagger around the street like drunken dancers. They separate, exchange a few blows, then grapple with each other again. Then Arthur hooks Toby's leg, trips him, and the two roll off the shoulder of the road and down an embankment. They hit the muddy bottom of the gully still hitting, flailing, kicking -- first Toby is on top, then Arthur, then Toby, then Arthur. By now they are panting, each breath is a heave, a gasp. Then, suddenly, Arthur gives out completely -- he falls on top of Toby, pressing him deeper into the mud. With his last bit of strength Toby throws the bigger boy off him and sits up, while PEPPER BARKS FURIOUSLY at him and threatens to nip his leg. Toby staggers to his feet and starts to climb the gully. He looks relieved -- at least it's over. No, it's not. From behind him he hears three words. 
 Take it back. (CONTINUED) 
 Take it back. Arthur's words are not angry anymore.    Toby's worn out too... 
 Okay. 
 Say it. 
 Okay.   I take it back. 
 No, say 'You're not a sissy.' Toby glances at Oscar and Jimmy. Their faces are gleeful but he doesn't care what the hell they think. 
 You're not a sissy. Arthur immediately turns and walks away, but Toby ignores them and walks away in the opposite direction, delivering his hated newspapers. 
 I won't do it, you know. I won't be a referee between the two of you. 
 Who asked you? 
 You both do. You do. Just by coming home like this you ask me to take your side when he raises hell. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 CAROLINE (CONT'D) Well, the answer's 'No.' I'm going to make this marriage work. No fights. 
 Oh, the bride is calm.   Who the hell cares? Caroline refuses to argue. She picks up a piece of material and holds it up to the window to see if her choice of color was a good one. 
 (to herself) ... seems like this place is so ugly. Seems like everywhere I look there's something... ugly. 
 Who won? 
 (surprised) Uh, well, uh... he's the one can't see out of one eye. 
 Hot damn! You actually gave little Lord Gayle a black eye? 
 Well, it wasn't black yet. 
 But it was all puffed up? (as Toby nods) Then it was a shiner. (CONTINUED) 
 How'd it start? 
 I called him a sissy. Dwight hoots with laughter and slaps his leg. 
 Well, he sure's hell can't sue you for slander. That boy fights for the pink team. Did you make him cry? 
 Well... he was just ready to. I called him a big-assed, squat- to-pee sissy. (as Dwight slaps his leg again) I'd have won bigger except he hit me when I wasn't looking. 
 (suddenly serious) He dry-gulched you. Now that's your fault. You gotta keep your guard up. There's no excuse for getting dry-gulched. I'll show you a couple moves after supper that'll leave Miss Arthur Gayle wondering what month it is. 
 ... so he says, 'You and who else's army?' 'Just the three of us,' I say. 'Me, myself and I.' (a beat) Well, after school he's waiting for me and he yells something -- I tell you, with people like that, you got to hurt 'em, gotta inflict pain, or they'll never leave you alone. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (CONT'D) (a beat) So it was real hot out, okay? And there were these horse turds laying all over the place. I picked one up and went up to him, but not acting tough, okay? Acting more like, 'Oh gee, I'm so scared, please don't hurt me.' Sort of like this: Dwight slumps his shoulders, drops his chin, and looks up through his eyebrows, a simpering expression on his face. 
 So I say, 'Excuse me, but what's the problem?' And he starts in on me again, blah, blah, blah, and I jam a horse turd right into that big mouth. Then I give him a sucker punch in the breadbasket, and he goes down like a... Dwight goes on, relishing the story. 
 No, no. From the shoulder. Straight. (demonstrates) Like this. This. Otherwise you leave yourself wide open. (as Toby tries) Yeah, better, better... and keep those feet moving, shuffle, shuffle, that's right... now try for my face... good... 
 ... not good, to tell you the truth not good at all. (listens) No, he's not mean to me... (listens again) No, he's good about that: comes home right after work every night. (listens again) Oh, Marian, I don't know -- maybe I just got my hopes too high, although I don't think so. All I want is a little... (searches) ... a little son-of-a-bitching sweetness. That's all. (listens; laughs) You think so, huh? You always did have an eye for Dwight, didn't you? (leans back; watches Dwight and Toby) The thing is, he's out on the porch teaching Jack to box right now. I keep thinking if I can hang on, things'll settle down. If I can just hang on long enough, it'll work out and my kid'll have a father. You know? 
 You said you'd show me how to dry-gulch somebody. 
 Okay. Now you can always  kick somebody in the balls, but I like this one better: What you  do is hit 'em in the throat with the side of your forearm. You  wait 'til -- hah! Without warning, Dwight lunges at Toby and swings the side of his arm toward Toby's throat. Toby dodges wildly, falling backward over a box of sports equipment. (CONTINUED) 
 Now that's dry-gulching. Hit 'em in the throat, but do it before they're expecting it. Now you try. 
 I'm afraid I'll hurt you. 
 You won't. 
 But I might. Finally Toby gives a half-hearted "Hah!" and swings the side of his forearm toward Dwight's throat. Dwight catches the arm easily. 
 Come onnn.   You're not trying. Again Toby hesitates, again he says "Hah!" and gives a lukewarm swing at Dwight's throat. 
 Well, don't go all shy and delicate on me -- you're as sissy as little Miss Arthur Gayle. Yeah -- I'll just call you 'Little Miss Jackie Wolff.' Ooh, my, yes -- Hello, Jackie. Toby's eyes flare up, then he lowers his head, biting his lip, sniffling a bit. 
 Aw, Jesus Christ, if you're gonna -- 
 You just about got dry-gulched, my man. Dwight manages a grin, but he is not happy to have been bested. 
 I know you may think this is silly, Dwight, but it seems like... I don't know, like an emblem or something. I want to be able to see your face when we make love. How else can we be cl -- The rest of the word is jerked out of her as Dwight turns her onto her side, away from him, and proceeds to make love again in his favorite manner. 
 You just don't know what's good, Sugar. You're too tense. You just relax and Dwight'll take you on a little trip. Okay? You'll have a good time. Caroline closes her eyes. 
 ... are the prettiest thing I've ever seen. I mean it. You are. The way your hair curls up right there. So pretty. I just love you so much. I don't know what I'd do if you ever left me. I couldn't take it. (smiles) Guy I knew in the Navy had a saying: 'If you love her, here's what to do: Let her go visit places new. If she loves you, she'll come back to you.   If she don't come back... hunt the bitch down and kill her.' (laughs) That's awful, I guess. I don't feel that way, but close. My pretty thing... We see that Caroline realizes the enormity of her mistake. 
 ... but ask him again, why don't you? I hate it so much. 
 (never stops sewing) I asked him a week ago, I asked him this morning -- he wants you to keep the paper route. 
 Then make him give me the money. It's mine, I earned it. It's $220.00 already. 
 He won't. He says he'll keep it for when you really need it. 
 That's not fair. I ought to be able to have my own money. (as Caroline shrugs) But it's mine. (CONTINUED) 
 You remind me of a baby bird -- you know those frantic little things with their mouths wide open, wanting, wanting. 
 Well, at least ask him about my gym shoes again. I can practice barefoot but for games I gotta have shoes. 
 I'm not a referee. I won't do it. 
 Oh, we know, we know: the bride won't argue. The bride won't raise her voice. 
 Well, I'll tell you what    the bride will do: the bride will     get up and walk over there and    slap hell out of the bride's son.     Now does the bride's son want his    face slapped? 
 Oh, I hate it here! I wish we could just get up and go. 
 I don't have another 'get up and go' left in me! You understand? I'm telling you I've hit a god- damn wall. I can't run anymore. Now this whole thing isn't perfect for me, either... let me impress that on you real strong, okay? I don't wake up singing every morning. But I'm going to make this marriage work -- I won't join in any fights, you got that? I won't even raise my voice! Caroline points to the sink. 
 See those two roses? He picked them for me on his way home last night. (CONTINUED) 
 Big deal. 
 I'm trying to concentrate on the good stuff. Norma appears in the kitchen door, wearing her cap and gown. She strikes a pose. 
 What d'ya think? I think I look like a fool. (shrugs) Who cares? Six weeks to graduation, and California, here I come! Norma snaps her fingers and goes back to her bedroom. 
 (lamely) Seriously: you have to concentrate on the good stuff. Caroline turns her attention back to the curtains. 
 (breathy) Try to find the good stuff, honey. 
 I'm telling you I didn't. 
 And I know damn well you did. 
 Well, you're wrong. 
 About some things, yeah. Not about this. You're a goddam hog, and I proved it. 
 How do you know Skipper didn't eat it? Or Norma? Or Pearl? 
 I told all three of them to stay away from this candy for twenty- four hours. 
 Well, how do you know I even ate any? 
 (a triumphant smile) I counted them. You hogged down eleven chocolate covered cherries since yesterday afternoon. (CONTINUED) 
 So what? 
 So that makes you a hog. I just wanted to establish that fact, and now I have. Caroline and Skipper enter, carrying throw pillows and materials. 
 (to Caroline and Skipper) Hey. Mr. Hotshot Hog and I've just been establishing some facts, and what we come up with is this: One, he's a pig who gobbles down everybody's candy; two, he lies about it; three, he lays around on his lazy ass day and night reading, reading; and four, he's not getting any ten-dollar gym shoes. That's about what we've come up with so far. 
 Oh, Dad... 
 (a high, mincing voice) Oh, Dad! Skipper leaves the room. Caroline sits down, begins to try various materials as coverings for the pillows. 
 (to Caroline) Why don't you ever take up for me? 
 (to Caroline) Why don't you ever help me straighten that boy out? Caroline doesn't even look up. She threads a needle and begins to sew. Whilst Dwight paces around the room. 
 All he does is read or listen to records or sing. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DWIGHT (CONT'D) (he sings five seconds of a grotesque "Blue Monday") I'm so sick of that shit! And when he isn't singing, he's watching T.V. (to Toby) And don't say you don't 'cause when I come home I always put my hand on top of it to see if it's warm, and it always is. This is the news, kid -- I'm wise to you. 
 Oh, big, big deal, who cares, and as long as we're passing out news here, I don't want to do my paper route anymore. 
 I bet you don't -- big lazy candy hog like you'd rather lay on his ass and read, wouldn't you? Let me tell you something: you're gonna deliver those papers if I have to walk behind you with a horsewhip ever' step of the way. 
 Then give me the money I earn! 
 Hell, no. I'm putting that in the bank for you for when you really need it -- cuss me now, thank me later. 
 Mom,  won't you at least make him let  me have the shoes for gym? How  can I play basketball without gym  shoes? I'm the only one who -- Toby stops suddenly. He looks at Dwight for a beat or two, and then speaks in a different tone: 
 It's not the shoes, is it? Or the candy. It's me, isn't it? You just can't stand the fact of me. Dwight glances at Caroline, who still looks at her sewing. (CONTINUED) 
 I, well, no, it's not that -- I just want you to be well-behaved. Your rich daddy 'Duke' doesn't care anything about you, and so somebody's got to train you, and one of the things you've gotta be trained about is not to be a hog and eat everybody's candy like a -- Dwight stops short as Caroline says one word. 
 Oh. 
 (her eyes still on her sewing; soft) Oh. 
 What's the matter, honey? 
 (louder) Oh. 
 TOBY                                 DWIGHT Are you sick, Mom?                   Don't you feel good? 
 
-H-H-H! 
 I.    Will.   Not. Referee. 
 (taken aback) Jack, I think you've made your mother nervous, so why don't we just go on to Scouts and let her rest? (to Caroline) You lay down and rest awhile. Dwight and Toby grab their caps and hotfoot it out the door. 
 Check for the tongue tonight -- you forgot it last week. Otherwise you won't get your life-saving badge. 
 Bastard.   Swallow that. 
 (laughing) Give my pud a big squeeze while you're at it, why don't you? Toby and the life-savers on either side of him laugh a bit. 
 You like my dog? 
 Yeah, he's nice. (CONTINUED) 
 Smart, too -- he can talk. 
 (smiles) Sure -- I just about believe you. 
 Hey, Pepper -- what's on a tree? As PEPPER BARKS TWICE: 
 Bark! Way to go, Pepper -- pretty smart. Oh, I was wondering, Pepper -- I wanted to ask you something: how's the world treating you? As PEPPER BARKS ONCE: 
 Rough!   Yeah, I know what you mean. 
 That's dumb. A little funny, though. How come your dad never comes to meetings with you? 
 I don't have a dad. Never did. I sprang full-blown from my mother's forehead. You want to walk home with me and Pepper? 
 Sure -- compared to a ride home with Dwight, it'll be like heaven on a June day. 
 ... Tobias? Your real name is Tobias? Toby... Tobias... I like it -- it's very elegant. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ARTHUR (CONT'D) My real parents would probably have given me an elegant name, too. I say 'real parents' because I suspect I'm a foundling. Somebody royal -- or at least very, very beautiful had me and gave me to my poor but honest mother. (a beat) Tell me more about you. 
 (shrugs) Every day of my life feels like a mile on the Bataan Death March. 
 (laughs) I knew I'd like you. 
 Why'd you point at me that day? 
 Because you're an alien. You don't belong in Concrete any more than I do. This place would like to kill us because we're different. 
 Oh, come on, Arthur.   That's a little dramatic. 
 Think so? You know what chickens do if one chicken's born with a little difference? With a few black feathers on its head, say? They peck at the black spot 'til the chicken's dead -- they can't stand the fact that it's different. Now we're both different. Your difference is something other than... (husky-voiced actress) ... my difference... (normal tone) But we're both aliens here. 
 I don't exactly feel like an alien. I've got friends here. (CONTINUED) 
 Yes, and they're fools. And you act like a fool when you're around them. A prediction: if you stay in Concrete, you'll wind up working at the A&P -- either that or you'll go on a rampage with a hunting rifle. 
 Yeah, and you'll wind up a recluse that everybody says likes to dress up in his mama's old clothes. 
 (laughs) Maybe, maybe, but no matter how many times I have to repeat: my primary goal's to get out of Concrete. 
 Burma-Shave! Arthur and Toby laugh.   As they walk on, though, Toby's face is thoughtful. 
 Whose dog is that on the porch? (CONTINUED) 
 Yours. 
 Mine? 
 You said you wanted a dog. 
 A collie, though. Not this one. 
 Well, he's yours. You paid for him. Go get ready for Norma's play. 
 What d'you mean I paid for him? But Dwight doesn't answer.   Toby waits, then shrugs and leaves the room. 
 My Winchester's gone. 
 (eyes never leaving the TV) This dog is pure-bred Weimaraner. A champion. 
 I don't want it. 
 (as above) Well, you're purely out of luck, aren't you, 'cause that rifle's on its way to Seattle. 
 I want my rifle! (CONTINUED) 
 Well, want in one hand and shit in the other -- see which gets full first. 
 But, Dwight, that Winchester was mine. 
 And Champ's   your dog.     Jesus, I trade some   old piece of    crap for a valuable   hunting dog,    and all you can do   is piss and    moan. 
 I'm not pissing and moaning. 
 The hell you aren't. You can just make your own deals from now on. 
 What's wrong? 
 Dwight traded my rifle for a dog. He says the dog's for me, but it's some stupid dog he wanted. 
 All right.    Okay, Dwight. You stay here.    Don't come inside. Toby nods.   Caroline heads inside, loaded for bear. 
 (calm) Get his rifle back. 
 But that dog's a champion! Caroline calmly SMASHES another PLATE on the countertop. 
 Get his rifle back. 
 Am I supposed to go clear to Seattle just to get... 
 Get his rifle back. 
 Jesus Christ, woman, I don't even know the guy's last name. Caroline picks up a bowl. 
 All right, all right. The guy's supposed to send the A.K.C. papers. When he sends 'em, I'll know his name and address, and I'll go get the god-damn rifle back. Jesus. Caroline exits leaving Dwight, Norma, and Pearl with their mouths open. 
 Well, I did it -- and the bride didn't even raise her voice: he says he'll get the rifle back as soon as the guy who sold him the dog sends the papers. Toby nods.   Caroline looks up at the evening sky and then shrugs. (CONTINUED) 
 'Course, having seen that dog, I wouldn't suggest you hang by your thumbs 'til those papers come. I mean, that dog is ugly. Toby gives her a dirty look, but Caroline's smile makes Toby grin. 
 That's nice -- I haven't seen a real smile out of you in a month. 
 Oh, Mom, can't we leave here? I hate it so much. You don't like it either -- all you do is stick your head in a sewing machine night and day. Let's just leave and start over someplace else. 
 'Start over.' Do you know how many times I've started over, sweetheart? I don't want to do it anymore. This is as far as I want to go. This place. I have to make this work somehow. We do. You're fourteen now -- you have to help me. 
 But if... 
 But me no buts, honey. I told you: I've hit a wall. And besides, it's not so bad here, if you just try to -- 
 If you say 'look for the good stuff,' I'm gonna get Dwight's 30/30 and shoot myself! 
 Seriously, though: give the place a chance. Give him a chance. 
 Great. Just great. What a life: I gotta live with Dwight... I got a sissy for a new best friend... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TOBY (CONT'D) I got no rifle... I got no gym shoes... 
 Well, look on the bright side... You got a dog. In spite of his disappointment over the rifle, in spite of all that Caroline had said about staying with Dwight, Toby is happy to see Caroline completely back to her old self again, joking with him. He grins and, with the palm of his hand, he gives her shoulder a gentle shove. She returns the gesture. And the two of them sit on the steps, staring into the twilight. 
 (O.S.) Heh Hotshot! He looks up just in time to see a flashlight fly through the air toward him. He catches it. Dwight stands in the doorway. 
 If you can tear yourself away from your pedicure, I want you to fetch me some of that paint from the attic. Dwight switches the room light off. 
 Yeah. 
 Is now too soon. 
 God! 
 (V.O.) ... Cheryl Crane, daughter of Lana Turner, was held for questioning today in the stabbing death of Johnny Stompanato, Miss Turner's companion. A spokesman for Miss Turner said today that the stabbing was an accident, and that Miss Turner's daughter will not spend even one night in jail for what the spokesman called a 'tragic accident.' Suddenly aware of another presence in   the room, Dwight turns and sees Toby, who is standing   in the doorway, also listening to the NEWSCAST. Toby    is not watching the television, though, he is staring   fixedly at Dwight. Dwight reacts then glances back at the set, where the Stompanato murder story continues. He turns slowly back to Toby, whose eyes are still locked onto his face. The SOUND on the TV FADES. 
. The Buick begins to shudder and wobble -- Toby hits the brakes but the Buick spins and goes sideways into the ditch. SILENCE. 
 That your car in the ditch back there? (as Toby nods) How'd you do that, anyway? 
 It's hard to explain. 
 Get in. 
 Your mother said you were sick. Feeling better? 
 Yeah, I am. 
 Good, good.    Get some sleep, did you? 
 Yeah, I slept about four hours. 
 Must've needed it. A pause: 
 Oh, by the way, you didn't happen to hear a funny pinging noise in the engine, did you? 
 What engine? 
 I was downtown with Champ a few minutes ago, and I met a guy who recognized him. Said he'd seen my dog this very morning. Told me an interesting story of how he and the dog happened to meet. What d'you think about that? 
 I don't know what you -- Suddenly Dwight is across the floor and onto the bed. He straddles Toby and slaps him across the face with the left hand then the right, again and again. Toby holds a forearm protectively across his face. Dwight holds both Toby's hands with one of his and, slaps the boy's face again and again. Finally Toby manages to get his right hand loose.      He slams his forearm across Dwight's throat. Dwight rears back, choking and gagging. Toby throws off the covers and tries to run. Still choking, Dwight grabs the back of Toby's hair and forces the boy's face down against the mattress. (CONTINUED) 
 Only me. On this whole earth, to straighten you out. And I will do it kill or cure. Now get your ass up -- you're going to school. 
 (screams it) Ag-Hhh! Gorilla blood. 
 Oh, Psycho, shut up. 
 (pointing) Oh, look -- there goes Carol Baumgarten. Ain't she sweet? She's hot for Wolff. 
 I wish. 
 Won't do her any good, though -- Jack's saving himself for Rhea Clark. 
 Knock it off. 
 You know what he said about Rhea? Said even the inside of her arm turned him on. You slay me, Wolff. She is pretty though. 
 (after a pause; wistful) I'd sure like to eat Rhea Clark's pussy. There is general laughter, mixed with groans. JERRY         PSYCHO CHUCK God, here we        Eatin' pussy        Jesus, give it go again.           is all that         a rest, Arch. man knows. 
 No, I   mean it. I'd like to get down   and really grovel on it. Spend   about a week with my face right   in it. (CONTINUED) 
 Aghhh, pussy! 
 Where's Mom? Still singing, Pearl points to the living room. 
 Oh, honey, good news -- Truman's going to campaign for him. (lowers her voice) I gave twenty-five dollars to his campaign office today. I've been thinking I'd like to work... She is interrupted by Dwight's voice O.S. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Here I am, you lucky people! Toby and Caroline exchange a glance.     It speaks volumes. 113   INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                          113 Dwight, Caroline, Toby and Pearl sit at the table, eat- ing. Champ sits by Dwight's chair -- obviously his dog. Dwight seems unchanged by the two years. Just now, Dwight is in the middle of telling another of his "Dwight Is The Best" stories. From the bored faces around the table, this is another in a long series. 
 ... So the S.O.B. had been on my back for a week at work, okay? Sayin' I stole his wrench, an' poured oil all over his tools, as if! Anyway, he went just one step too far with old Dwight, okay? Spat on the floor as I walked by. I turned around and walked back to him, acting so dainty and humble and scared, you know, all innocent -- and the minute he took his eyes off me, BLAM, I dry gulched him! I shut his water off good! Never gave me another second's grief to this very day. There is a pause.   One more story.   Nobody has much of a reaction. 
 I heard Kennedy on the news again tonight -- I don't know: I hate the Democrats and the Republicans, but then once in a while somebody comes along who doesn't seem like... (she searches) ... a liar. 
 Kennedy -- the senator from Rome. 
 He gives me hope. 
 I know what he gives you, and it sure as hell isn't hope. (CONTINUED) 
 (laughs) It's true he is attractive! And it may just be those white teeth that I respond to. But I don't think so. (a beat) I'm going to work for his campaign. 
 No. Too many Republicans   in this town. They hear my wife's   working for the Democrats, they'll  take their cars someplace else  to be fixed. Bad idea. No. 
 Oh, Rickyyy! (louder; same whine) Oh, Ricky-y-y! Please let me come down and work at the club! 
 What the hell are you doing? 
 Well, you treat me like Lucy, I'll act like her. I'll be working for Kennedy's campaign. 
 (V.O.) (on T.V.) ... please, Mr. Capone, it'll never happen again, I swear it. It was an accident. I can promise you faithfully it won't be repeated. Finally Al Capone speaks.   He leans across his desk, bugs out his eyes, and hisses: (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) (on T.V.) Why don't you take a little ride with Frank? The man's eyes bulge with fear, and he cries, "No!    No!" as two men escort him out the door. In the next shot we see a long black car parked on a country road, and we hear a SHOT. 
 I'll be through in a minute. Dwight looks around. 
 You left the lid off the damn toothpaste again. 
 (not looking at him) Oh, Dwight, is that the best you can come up with? Angered, but keeping his voice low.   He pushes Toby's shoulder. 
 This is my bathroom, and I say about the toothpaste, got it? (pushes again) Huh? Have you? Huh? Now if you lived with your daddy Duke and his rich wife, maybe things'd be different, but he's not here now, is he? (high, flutey voice) Oh, Duke? Duke, are you here? Dukie? Oh, how sad -- Duke's not here. Oh, boo hoo! (normal voice) My bathroom. I get to say. Got that? Still Toby doesn't respond -- Dwight reaches out and pinches the skin on Toby's waist, hard. Toby still doesn't respond, when Dwight begins to twist it. Toby spins around, eyes blazing. (CONTINUED) 
 Come on. Oh, come on.     Give me an excuse. Toby hesitates, then leaves the bathroom, humiliated. 
 You didn't pick this up yesterday -- congratulations, you got nothing higher than a C. 
 Shut up. He signs the grade card, saying, "Presto." 
 You're gonna get caught some day. (as Toby laughs a moronic laugh) You act more like those morons you hang around with every day. Aghhh! I'm psycho! I'm retarded! (CONTINUED) 
 He hears you do that, you're dead. Hey, lemme copy your math homework. 
 No, but I'll show you how to work the problems. 
 I tell you I'm thirsty, you offer me a sandwich thank you and fuck you. 
 Oh, Jack. 
 Oh, Jaaack! 
 I take it back you don't act like Psycho, you act like Dwight. 
 (new tone) I know it. He's winning. I do act like him. I feel like him sometimes. I've gotta get out of this place or I'm a dead one. 
 I know, but you've said that for two years. 
 I mean it. I may go live with my brother Gregory in Princeton. 
 You mean the brother Gregory in Princeton who never calls you? That brother Gregory? 
 He wrote me. 
 And he asked you to live with him? (CONTINUED) 
 No. But I'm going. Or maybe I could go to a prep school like Gregory did. Like my dad did. 
 What about your grades? And what would you use for money? 
 I don't know. Dwight owes me over twelve hundred bucks! If I hadn't let him keep my paper route money, I'd be okay. 
 If the dog hadn't stopped to pee, he'd have caught the rabbit. Suddenly Toby is angry.   He stands up, moves to another seat. 
 I think Dwight was right about you I think you fight for the pink team. Toby falls into another seat, then, pulls his head back and bangs it against the window. Then does it again, harder. 
 Nobody in your family ever even been in a Corvette, let alone owned one. 
 You wait and see if I don't get one. I'm gonna move down to Seattle, get a job at Bendix and drive a 'Vette to work every day. 
 My uncle can have any car he wants. He makes big bucks as an electrician. 
 Yeah?   How big? 
 Hundred seventy-five a week, take home. 
 Bullshitter! 
 Fuck you, it's true. 
 Even the supervisors at Bendix don't make that. 
 So how are you ever gonna make enough to drive a 'Vette then, fuck-face? The others all laugh at Chuck. Toby has reached the group and stands on the lip of the large wooden platform that they are on and listens while leaning on a large hook. 
 I'm gonna drive a T-bird, someday. 
 An' I'm gonna own a Corvette if I have to hold up the Bendix payroll to get it. 
 Fuck you. (CONTINUED) 
 Me. I want to eat a big red-haired pussy. The others all laugh at him.     Toby regards them with a sneer. 
 Losers.   What a bunch of losers. 
 Who you calling a loser, fuck-face? 
 All of you. (to Chuck) You're gonna drive a Fairlane just like your daddy does. (to Psycho) How you ever going to drive a Thunderbird when you're a janitor like the rest of your family? (to Jerry) An' you can forget being an electrician, you can't even pass tenth grade math. 
 Well fuck you.     Who died an' made you King Shit? 
 Yeah, you're no better than us. 
 I know that, Psycho. That's my point: Ha, ha, ha. You guys are my buddies. You guys are my pals. And my dear old dad's called Dwight. (he spreads his arms wide) Welcome to Concreeee... Toby topples over and falls down a bank of rubble. The other burst out laughing and hooting. The CAMERA MOVES off them and CRANES DOWN to a spread-eagled Toby's face. The LAUGHTER ECHOES around the building. Toby begins to laugh, but it soon turns to bitter tears. DISSOLVE TO: 
 What is it? 
 I called Gregory at Princeton. (as Caroline reacts) He's sending me applications for prep schools. I need you to take me to Seattle to take some entrance exams. 
 Would a prep school take you with, uh, your school record? 
 I've got to get out of here, Mom. I've got to. I've got to get away. 
 When are the tests? 
 Saturday. 
 You'll be there. 
 He won't let you have the Buick. 
 You'll be there! 
 How was it? 
 Hard. I think I did okay.    I'll know Monday. 
 Take that trash out for me, honey. Toby grabs the trash and exits. 
 My application forms must've come today, and he threw them away. 
 Hey, I thought I was helping him -- thought I'd save him some trouble 'cause he's got no chance of getting into some fancy prep school. 
 You've always got your nose pressed up against the bake shop window, don't you, Dwight? 
 What? 
 You feel like everybody else is inside, and you're stuck on the outside. It turns you mean. It turns you ugly. And one day do you hear me, Dwight? One day all that ugliness is going to snap back and hit you in the face. (CONTINUED) 
 Ooooooh, oh, I'm so scared.   Oooh. 
 I won't do it. 
 But why? You work right in the office -- nobody'll ever know. 
 I'm surprised you'd want help from anybody who fights for the pink team. 
 I'm asking you to help me, man. I got word yesterday that I did really well on those tests -- but that's not enough. I've got to cheat and lie -- but I don't care: this is my one chance to get out of here! 
 No. Why should you get to be the one? Why not me? 
 You could leave too, you know. 
 No, I've grown progressively fond of Concrete. I think I'll stay here all alone and dress up in my mama's old clothes sometimes -- like you said. Arthur turns and    swishes away. Toby pats   the manilla envelope, turns    back to the saw. Suddenly   he jerks, looks down, and    sees that the ring finger  of his left hand is spurting    blood. Toby says a mild,   astonished "Hey," and sinks    to his knees. 
 Come help me stuff envelopes. 
 I'll do some this afternoon. 
 No, I need to take them with me. 
 I'll be in in a minute.    Let me finish this article. (CONTINUED) 
 Boy, you irritate me. (new tone) I think maybe you ought to... Yeah -- I think maybe you should just... (hisses) ... TAKE A LITTLE RIDE WITH 
. Toby laughs, and gets up to help her. 
 'You got letters from those schools!' Toby grabs them as if they were the very stuff of life. Pearl stands expectantly. Toby notices her, then walks off holding the letters to his chest. 
 Maybe that last school will come through. 
 Yeah, or maybe he'll get a contract in the mail asking him to be a singing star on T.V. (on Caroline's look) Well, he's got about as much chance of one as of the other. Toby gets up and leaves. 
 A Concrete boy. 
 We only take boys who really want to work hard. Is that you? (as Toby nods) I'd want you to start evenings now, and I'd want you all summer -- no vacations. (as Toby nods) Food service work isn't easy. It's not something that comes to you in a year or two. So. You think you have what it takes to be an A&P management trainee? 
 (straight) That's exactly what I've got. 
 I can't find where this green piece goes -- it's gotta be grass. Dwight sighs with irritation at the interruption of his listening pleasure, and turns UP the VOLUME on the record. 
 (to Toby) Don't go off without eating. 
 I'll get a sandwich after work. 
 I was trying to listen to a record. Dwight rises, walks outside into the back yard. Then the TELEPHONE RINGS. Pearl answers it, listens, then says, 
 "Yeah, he's here," She holds the receiver out to Toby, whispering, "Are you Tobias?" 
 Hello? All right.     Tomorrow, then. Goodbye. Toby hangs up, turns to Caroline, quietly: 
 It's Hill School -- the last one I applied to. They haven't accepted me, but they're sending somebody up to interview me. Caroline upsets the puzzle getting up to hug Toby. 
 ... Yeah, I enjoy my classes, especially the ones that are advanced, but I've been feeling a little restless lately. It's hard to explain. 
 MR. HOWARD Well, you're probably bored. Not being challenged. Your application was very good, Toby, but we have many boys who want to go to Hill. Not everybody is comfortable at a prep school. 
 I think I would be. My father and brother went to prep schools. 
 MR. HOWARD Is that right?     Where? 
 Deerfield and Choate. Mr. Howard is impressed. 
 MR. HOWARD I see. Well, maybe you'd like it. Hill was difficult for me, though -- classes were hard, and the boys seemed cold -- interested in money and social position. (laughs) And I hated those snowy Pennsylvania winters! But then in my last year, something changed. The guys in my class grew close, so close that I still think of them as a second family. 
 (honest) I want that. I do, and -- (CONTINUED) 
 ... so she said, 'No, I don't want you to do that,' and I said 'Oh, baby, let me get down and grovel on it.' I mean, I ate her pussy 'til my tongue was calloused, and then... 
 ... so anyway, she went off like a Roman candle -- I mean that woman can scream. I said, 'You liked that, didn't you, baby?' I said, 'You liked the old Arch Cook special, didn't you?' Arch decides to let the sunglasses go. He and Psycho move toward the front of the store, he talks about pussy. Toby exhales. 
 MR. HOWARD Toby, boys at Hill talk roughly sometimes too -- you'd have to be ready for that. I can see you've had sort of a sheltered life. Toby nods his head. 
 MR. HOWARD You seem like a fine boy, and I'll give you a good report tomorrow. But there are lots of boys applying, and we'll just have to wait and see whether -- From O.S., we hear Dwight's voice, and Toby goes rigid. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Ohh, it's the Hotshot Boy. Both Mr. Howard and Toby turn to see Dwight, wearing his coveralls, ten feet away. 
 Yeah, it's the guy who thinks he knows everything. Thinks he's so smart, but fella, what you don't know would fill a book. (glances at Mr. Howard's new Chevrolet; offhand) General Motors makes shit cars. 
 (weakly) That's, uh, that's this guy... he's a mechanic... did some bad work on our car... It's not much of an explanation, but Mr. Howard seems to buy it. He says goodbye to Toby, gets into his car, drives away. Toby stares after him. DISSOLVE TO: 
 I know something'll make you feel good: that man called -- you got the scholarship. Toby grits his teeth and clenches both fists victoriously. He's won. (CONTINUED) 
 He said they're gonna give you two thousand three hundred dollars a year and it costs two thousand five hundred dollars... so you gotta come up with the other two hundred. Great, huh? (sympathetic) I'm making hot dogs -- I'll make one for you. Can you put mustard on some bread for us? Toby gets a jar of mustard from a cupboard, but it's empty, so he tosses it on top of the trash can, gets a new jar and starts to open it. 
 What're you doing home so earl... Oh! Toby he got that scholarship -- two thousand and three hundred dollars! Dwight makes himself a drink, takes two large swallows, then turns to Toby. 
 Hey, leopard. I say, 'Hey, leopard.' I know you, leopard -- I can see those spots you can't change. (laughs) Thinks he can go to some fancy prep school and fool everybody. Not a chance. I know a thing or two about a thing or two. Toby won't rise to the bait, and Dwight falls silent, he, looks around and sees the jar of mustard on top of the trash. 
 Who threw that away? 
 I did. 
 Why? 
 Because it was empty. (CONTINUED) 
 Empty?   That look empty to you? 
 It looks empty to me. 
 It looks empty to me, too. Dwight pushes the jar against Toby's eye, leaving mustard stains on the boy's face. 
 Look again, hotshot.    Is it empty? Toby jerks his head away, not answering. Dwight slams down the jar of mustard, grabs Toby by the back of the hair and forces his face down against the mustard jar. 
 Dad! 
 (to Toby) Now. Now, Mr. Big-Time Prep- School fucker, is it empty? Toby struggles, but Dwight has the strength of anger: trying always to protect his throbbing finger, Toby pulls free and jumps up from the table. Dwight is too quick for Toby, though: he grabs an even bigger handful of hair and forces Toby's face down onto the mustard jar again and again. And again. Each time he asks if the jar is empty. Finally, Toby gives up. 
 (muffled) No, it wasn't empty. 
 (lets him go) All right -- clean it out. His face smeared with mustard, Toby's expression is murderous. He picks up a knife and scrapes at the mus- tard, trying to get up under the neck. He manages to get a few brown and yellow smudges on the knife, which he transfers to the edge of a plate. Dwight watches. (CONTINUED) 
 Now.     Was it empty? Slowly he stands up and faces Dwight. 
 Yes! Dwight slaps Toby across the mouth and the battle is on. As Pearl stands frozen, Toby lunges at Dwight, they grapple and stagger around the room. GLASS SHATTERS, the kitchen table CRASHES over, and their feet STAMP and SHUFFLE but Toby is a wild man. Even though he has only one good hand. He lands a blow between Dwight's eyes that bangs the man back against the wall. 
! 
 (level) Get away from him or I will kill you. Toby manages to stand up, Caroline speaks to both of them. 
 What is this? (CONTINUED) 
 I got the scholarship and he went nuts. He's crazy, and I'm leaving. (screams it) I'm leaving! 
 Great.   Go! 
 Give me my paper route money, and you'll never have to see my face again. 
 (manages a smile) That money is gone with the wind. (as Toby stares) That's right. I spent it as you made it. It's gone. Poof. Toby starts for Dwight again. Caroline grabs him, saying, "No. No. No," over and over, literally dragging Toby away from Dwight. Caroline looks at Dwight. 
 It's not so much that you're disappointing -- it's that you're consistently disappointing. 
 Oh, fancy, fancy talk -- fancy talk for a whore.    I know a thing or two about a thing or two. I got friends in this town that tell me things, and I found out some man down at that campaign headquarters found you a job in Washington, D.C. Gonna run off with him, aren't you, Miss Whore? 
 He's just a friend. 
 Miss Liar.     Miss Whore Liar. 
 I'm leaving, Mom. You can leave, too. You don't have to stay here. (CONTINUED) 
 I don't, do I? 
 No, you don't. 
 I could leave with you, couldn't I? 
 Yes, you could! 
 What about me? 
 I could just walk right out that door, couldn't I? 
 Yes, you could! Caroline takes a deep breath, a weight has been lifted. 
 My God... the lightness. 
 What about me? 
 I'm leaving, too. 
 No. 
 Oh, Dwight, why do you want me to stay? You don't even like me, not really. 
 You're not leaving! 
 (gentle) Look again, Dwight -- I'm already gone. (CONTINUED) 
 ... you two've always sided in against me, always thought you were better than me. I tried. I did the best I could. What about me? Am I supposed to just crawl off in a ditch someplace and die? I've always been the nigger. Everybody's nigger. Ever since I was little. Caroline and Toby are at the door, run across the yard and down the street. Dwight stands in the doorway, yelling: 
 What about me? When is it ever Dwight's turn for some consideration? What about me? I'll tell you one thing -- you'll remember me! 
 Man, oh man. 
 Man, oh man, oh man. 
 Well, we're out. 
 Great, isn't it? 
 Yes. It's great. And you got the scholarship! Congratulations, honey. (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah, I'm out! I'm outta here! Maybe I'll crash and burn, but it's a chance, so I'm gone! I'm history, Histoire. Nobody's gonna tell me what to do now, nobody. I'm free as a bird. Sayonara nest. (yells it; really bawls it out) Heaven on a June day! Caroline's smile becomes fixed during Toby's speech and she begins to regard him oddly. 
 (weakly) Yeah, heaven on a June day... 
 What'd he say about you having a job in D.C.? 
 Oh, Helen found me something in a real estate office, but... 
 So now you can go! Oh. Oh! I am so damn glad to get out of this place! I'll be in 'fourth form.' Doesn't that sound great? And if you get a two-bedroom place in D.C., I can come for vacations and summers. I'm out. I'm out! 
 (notices she's upset) What? Oh, don't cry -- he's not worth it. As sad as she is, Caroline smiles... 
 She holds Toby at arm's length and studies him. 
 My you've grown, haven't you. Then clutches him to her fiercely.   Smiling, the two walk on through the sunny afternoon, singing softly to each other. 
 Are you sure you'll be all right? 
 (nice) Get on the bus. 
 (stuffing bills into his pocket) I borrowed money from everybody I know -- it's the two hundred you need for the tuition, and an extra fifty. Buy yourself a blazer. Oh, God. I'll miss you. I'll write you. You sure your hand's okay? 
 Get on the bus, Mom. Caroline puts her arms around Toby, kisses his cheek hard, then whispers something into his ear. When Toby speaks, his words are full of love: 
 
