 
 (Give me tactical.) 
 (In Klingonese) Visual. 
 (In Klingonese) Tactical again. Stand by on torpedoes. 
 (O) 
 (quickly; Klingonese) Full force fields; evasive maneuvers. 
 (In Klingonese) ... severely damaged. Returning fire... 
 (In Klingonese) Imperial Klingon Cruiser Amar... severely damaged by unfamiliar weaponry... intruder unidentified.. 
 Our sensor drone is intercepting this on Quad L-14. 
 (V.O.) ... believe luminescent cloud to be enormous power field surrounding alien vessel... size and description unknown.. our sensor scans unable to penetrate. Imperial Klingon Cruiser Amar... continuing to attack. 
 That's within Klingon boundaries. Who are they fighting? 
 Unknown, sir. 
 We've plotted a course on that cloud, Commander: it will pass into Federation Space fairly close to us. 
 Heading? 
 LIEUTENANT'S VOICE Sir, it's on a precise heading for Earth. 
 (chidingly) Spock . . . ! 
 Here are these sands, our fore- bearers cast out their animal passions. Here our race was saved by the first attainment of Kolinahr. 
 Kolinahr: the final shedding of all emotion. 
 You have labored long, Spock. Now receive from us this symbol of total logic. 
 (gestures Spock forward) Come, give me your thoughts. 
 (continuing) Our minds, Spock... One and together.... 
 (continuing; sadly) This consciousness which calls -- it stirs your human half, Spock? You have not achieved Kolinahr -- Your human emotions are not fully extinguished. (turns to the other Masters) He will not achieve his goal with us. His answer lies elsewhere. 
 (M) 
 Commander Sonak... ! 
 (continuing) You've received your appointment as Enterprise Science Officer? 
 (nods) Based, I am told, on your recommendation, Admiral. Thank you. 
 Why aren't you on board? 
 Captain Decker requested I complete final Science briefing here before... 
 (interrupting) Here at Starfleet...? The Enterprise is in final preparation to leave dock... 
 Which will require twenty more hours at minimum, Admiral... 
 Twelve! I'm on my way to a meeting with Admiral Nogura which will not last more than three minutes. Report to me on the Enterprise in one hour. 
 To you, sir? 
 I intend to be there following that meeting. Report to me. One hour! 
 Admiral, I've been hoping to see you. Maybe you can get through to those thick heads in Starfleet that... 
 Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister Scott? 
 We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral... 
 See that it is. (moving toward pod) Take me over, please. 
 (carefully) Admiral, the Enterprise has just finished eighteen months redesign- ing and refitting. She needs testing, a shakedown... 
 Mr. Scott, there's an alien object with unbelievable destructive power less than three days away from this planet... 
 (continuing) ... the only Starship in interception range is the Enterprise! Ready, or not, she launches in twelve hours! 
 The crew hasn't had near enough transition time with all the new equipment. And the engines, Admiral: they've yet to be even tested at warp power. Add to that, an untried Captain... 
 (hint of smile) Two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made me a little stale, Mr. Scott -- but I wouldn't exactly consider myself 'untried.' 
 (continuing) They gave her back to me, Scotty. 
 "Gave' her back, sir...? I doubt it was that easy... (returns smile) But any man who could manage such a feat, I wouldna dare disappoint. She'll launch on time, sir... (with confidence) And she'll be ready. 
. 
 Granted, sir. Welcome aboard, Admiral... Commander Scott, you're needed in Engineering immediately. 
 (to Kirk) Sir, you'll excuse me...? 
 (nervous) Sir, if you'll follow me, I'll... 
 I think I can find my way, Ensign. 
 Bridge! 
 Captain... Starfleet just signaled your transfer-of- command orders! 
 I appreciate the welcome; I wish the circumstances were less critical. (to Uhura) Epsilon Nine is monitoring the intruder; keep a channel open to them. (glances around) Where is Captain Decker? 
 He's in Engineering, sir... (uncomfortable, indicates Captain's chair) He doesn't know. 
 Mr Chekov, assemble the crew on the Rec Deck at 0400 hours. I want to show them what we're facing. 
 I wouldn't have wanted to have been standing in his way. He wanted her back; he got her! 
 (perturbed) And Captain Decker? He's been with the ship every minute of her refitting... 
 (brittle) Ensign -- our chances of coming back from this mission in one piece may have just doubled...! 
 (quietly elated) I thought so! See... the trans- porter sensor was not activated... 
 (impressed) Aye, you were dead right about that... (to Technician) Clearly, put a back-up sensor into the unit. 
 Admiral Kirk... (shakes Kirk's hand) We're getting a top brass send off...? (self assured grin) She'll launch on schedule if we have to tow her out with our bare hands. Right, Scotty? 
 (lamely) Aye, sir, that we will... 
 (to Decker) Will, let's go over here and talk. 
 Let me now when the back-up is in place. 
 All due respect, sir, I hope this isn't a Starfleet pep talk; I'm just too busy. 
 I'm taking over the Center seat. I'm sorry, Will. 
 You are what...? 
 I'm replacing you as Captain of the Enterprise. 
 (continuing) You'll stay aboard as Executive Officer... a temporary grade reduction to Commander. 
 (finding his voice) -- You, personally, are assuming command? 
 Yes. 
 May I ask Why? 
 (nods) My experience -- five years out there dealing with unknowns like this -- my familiarity with the Enterprise, this crew... 
 Admiral, this is an almost totally new enterprise. You don't know her a tenth as well as I do. 
) 
 That's why you're staying aboard. I'm sorry, Will. 
 No, Admiral. I don't think you are; not one damned bit. I remember when you recommended me for this command. You told me how envious you were, and if only you could find a way to get a starship command again. Well, sir, it looks like you found a way. 
 Report to the bridge, Commander. Immediately. 
 TECHNICIAN (CLEARY) Transporter room, come in! Urgent! (to Scott) Redline on the transporters, Mister Scott! 
 Transporter room, do not engage! Do not.... 
 TECHNICIAN (CLEARY) (reacting to the reading; interruption) Too late; they're beaming now! 
 (into intercom) Starfleet, override us! OVERRIDE...! Yank them back! 
 Unable to retrieve their pattern, Enterprise....! 
 We're losing the pattern...! 
 (into intercom) Starfleet, boost your matter gain; we need more signal! 
 Oh, no! They're forming! 
 Oh, my God...! 
 (into intercom) Starfleet, do you have them? 
 (shaken) Enterprise... what we got back didn't live long. Fortunately. 
 Starfleet... Kirk. Please... express my condolences to their families. Commander Sonak's can be reached through the Vulcan Embassy. (see Rand's stricken expression) There was nothing you could have done, Rand. It wasn't your fault. 
 Turboshaft eight...? 
 Back that way, sir. 
 We'll have to replace Commander Sonak. I'd still like a Vulcan there, if possible... 
 None available, Captain. There's no one in fact, who's fully rated on this design. 
 You are, Mister Decker. I'm afraid you'll have to double as Science Officer. 
 That's all we know about it; except that it's now 2.2 days from Earth. Enterprise is the only Federation starship that stands in its way. 
 (O.S.) We assume there is a vessel of some type at the heart of the cloud. Our orders are to intercept, investigate; and take whatever action is necessary... and possible. (beat) ...We can only hope that the life form aboard that vessel reasons as we do. 
 (from intercom) Bridge to Captain. Priority signal from Epsilon Nine -- 
 Put it on the viewer here...! 
 (from the viewer; checking console readings) Enterprise... the Cloud is definitely a powerfield of some kind... Measures... My God! Over 82 A.U.'s in diameter... Must be something incredible inside there generating it. (looks up from console) We're transmitting linguacode friendship messages on all frequencies. No response. 
 Definitely something inside.. there but all scans are being reflected back. (studies readings) Receiving an odd pattern now.. (toward Branch) They seem to be reacting to our scans, sir. 
 (inspecting another console) Some kind of energy surge... (looking up) Enterprise... they could be mistaking our scans as a hostile act... (reacts at readings) Deflectors, emergency full! 
 (continuing) We are under attack...! 
 (to Uhura) External view...! 
 (O.S.) Viewer off. 
 Pre-launch countdown will commence in forty minutes. 
 Transporters Room and Chief Engineer Scott report trans- porter system fully repaired and now functioning normally, sir. 
 Dock signals clear, Captain. 
 Rely we are holding position awaiting final crew replacements. 
 Captain, Transporter Personnel reports the Navigator... (consults console) ... Lieutenant Junior Grade Ilia (Eye-lee-ah) is already aboard, and en route to the bridge. 
 She's a Deltan. 
 (reprovingly) And there are no finer navigators in Starfleet, Commander. 
 Lieutenant Ilia reporting for duty, sir. 
 (formally; rising) Welcome aboard, Lieutenant. 
 Hello, Ilia. 
 (surprised) Decker....! 
 I was stationed on the Lieutenant's home planet some years ago... 
 (eyes his rank stripes) 'Commander' Decker? 
 Our Exec and Science Officer... 
 (bitingly) Captain Kirk has the utmost confidence in me. 
 (pointedly) And in you, too, Lieutenant. 
 My oath of celibacy is on record Captain. May I assume my duties? 
 By all means. 
 Captain, Starfleet reports our last six crew members ready to beam up... (puzzled) ... but one of them is refusing to step into the transporter. 
 (pleased) Oh? I'll see that he beams up...! 
 Mr. Sulu, take Lieutenant Ilia in hand. 
 (startled) Sir...? (then understands) Yes, of course... (to Ilia) Your pre-programming is already set in, Lieutenant. 
 I'm sworn to celibacy, Mister Sulu. That makes me as safe as any human female. 
 I now the Captain meant no person- al insult. 
 (eyes on console) I would never take advantage of a sexually immature species. (looks at him) You can assure him that's true, can't you? 
 Yeoman, what was the problem down there? 
 (through intercom) He insisted we go first, sir. Said something about first seeing how it scrambled our molecules. 
 Thank you, Yeoman (hits transmit control) Starfleet , this is Captain Kirk. The officer is to be beamed up immediately! 
 Well, for a man who swore he'd never return to Starfleet... 
 (straight-faced) They didn't...! 
 Bones, there's a 'thing' out there -- 
 (continues) -- headed this way. I need you... 
 (nods) Bones, I need you badly. 
 (elated) Permission granted, sir! 
 All decks, this is the Captain. Prepare or immediate departure. 
 Dock control reports ready, sir. 
 Helm ready, sir. 
 Orbital departure on plot, sir. 
 Yard command signaling clear, sir. 
 Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Sulu. 
 Maneuvering thrusters, sir. 
 Hold station. 
 (working controls) Thrusters at station-keeping, sir. 
 Thrusters ahead, Mister Sulu. Take us out. 
 Intermix set, Bridge, impulse power at your discretion. 
 (after a moment) Impulse power, Mr Sulu. Ahead Warp point-five. 
 Departure angle on viewer. 
 Departure angle. 
 Viewer ahead. 
 (V.O.) Captain's Log, stardate 7412.6. 2.7 hours from launch... 
 (V.O.) (concerned) ... in order to intercept the Intruder at the earliest possible time, we must now risk engaging Warp drive while still within the solar system... 
 Captain, assuming we have full Warp capability, accelerating to Warp Seven on leaving solar system will bring us to IP with the Intruder in twenty point one hours. 
 Science Officer's computations confirmed, sir. 
 Well, Bones, do the new medical facilities meet with your approval? 
 (turning to Decker) Programming ready? 
 Program set for standard Warp entry, Captain... 
 (continuing) ... but I still recommend further simulation study. 
 Mister Decker; every minute brings that object nearer Earth! (using intercom) Engineering! Stand by for Warp Drive. 
 Engineer, we need Warp speed now! 
 (into intercom) Hold one minute, please, Captain -- 
. That's it, sir; I can't do any better. 
 (grim) Aye, lad... (into intercom) It's borderline on the simulator, Captain: I canna guarantee that she'll... 
 Warp Drive, Mr Scott. 
 (continuing) Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu. 
 Accelerating to Warp One, sir. 
 (continuing) Warp point seven... point eight ... nine... 
 Warp One, sir. 
 Mr. Decker -- 
 (continuing) Wormhole!... Get us back on impulse power! Full reverse! 
 Negative helm control, Captain! Going reverse on impulse power...! 
 Subspace frequencies are jammed by Wormhole effect! 
 (terse, flat) Collision alert...! Collision alert...! 
 (consulting his viewer) Negative control from inertial lag will continue 22 point five seconds before forward velocity slows to sub-light speed. 
 Unidentified small object has been pulled into the wormhole with us, Captain! Directly ahead...! 
 Forcefields up full! Put object on viewer...! 
 Navigational deflectors inoperative...! (consulting her console, alarmed) Directional control also inoperative, Captain...! 
 Wormhole distortion has over- loaded main power systems...! 
 (toward Ilia) Time to impact...? 
 Twelve seconds...! 
 Mr. Chekov, stand by on the phasers...! 
 (racing to Chekov's station) Delay that phaser order! Arm photon torpedoes...! 
 Photon torpedoes armed...! 
 Object is an asteroid, reading mass point seven... (consulting instruments) Impact in eight seconds... seven... six... five... 
 Fire torpedoes...! 
 (punching button) Torpedoes away...! 
 (relieved) We're out of it...! 
 We are at warp point eight. Position report, Navigator..? 
 Helm control restored, sir. 
 Computing new interception course. 
 Communications are normal, Captain. 
 (to Kirk) Negative damage report, sir. (to McCoy) No casualties reported, sir. 
 (into intercom) Engineer... report status there. 
 In just a second, Exec; we're picking up the pieces down here. 
 Warp Drive as soon as possible, Mr. Scott. 
 That object out there is less than two days from Earth, Mister Scott. We've got to intercept while it still is out there! 
 Mr. Decker, I'd like to see you in my quarters. (toward helm) You have the conn, Mr. Sulu. 
 Maintaining warp point eight; I show our new heading as 287 point three Mark 105. 
 (continuing; gently reminding) Lieutenant Ilia...? 
 (a beat; then quickly) Confirmed, Mr. Sulu. Confirmed. 
 Explanation, Mr. Decker: Why was my phaser order countermanded? 
 (cool, polite) Sir, the Enterprise redesign increases phaser power by channeling it through the main engines. When they went into anti-matter imbalance, the phasers were automatically cut off. 
 Then you acted properly, of course. 
 Thank you, sir. I'm sorry I embar- rassed you. 
 You saved the ship. 
 (coolly) I'm aware of that, sir. 
 (flaring) Stop competing with me, Decker! 
 Permission to speak freely, sir? 
 (tight) Granted. 
 Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design -- in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission. 
 I trust you will... nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister? 
 Yes, sir, I'll do that. 
 Then I won't keep you from your duties any longer, Commander. (whirling at McCoy) Yes, Doctor? 
 Was he difficult? 
 No more than I expected (hesitates) Not as difficult as this. I'm sorry... 
 That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'? 
 If I'd seen you again, would you have been able to say it? 
 (long hesitation; then shakes head) No. 
 Get out of here, Bones. 
 Make your point, Doctor. 
 (tight) I intend to keep her, is that what you're saying, Doctor? 
 Viewer on. 
 For what purpose? 
 It is a courier, Captain. Grade One priority. Non-belligerency confirmed. 
 Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off. 
 (continuing) Your... opinion has been noted, Doctor. (beat) Is there anything further? 
 Permission to come aboard, sir? 
 Granted, sir! Granted! 
 Spock...! Spock, where...how...? 
 Commander, if I may...? 
 I have been monitoring your Starfleet transmissions, Captain, your engine design difficulties. 
 (continuing) I offer my services as Science Officer. 
 If our Executive Officer has no objections...? 
 (interrupting) Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications. 
 (grinning openly now; turns, calls) Mister Chekov, log Mister Spock's Starfleet commission reactivated; list him as Science Officer; both effective immediately. 
 Mr. Spock...!!! 
 That's how we all feel, Mister... 
 With your permission, I will now discuss these fuel equations with the Engineer. 
 Mister Spock, welcome aboard! 
 (V.O.) (buoyant) Captain's Log. Stardate 7413.4. Thanks to Mr. Spock's timely arrival - and assistance... 
 (V.O.) (continues) ... we have the engines rebalanced into full warp capacity. Repair time less than three hours... 
 (V.O.) (continues) ... which means we will now be able to intercept Intruder while still more than a day from Earth. 
 Warp point eight... point nine... 
. 
 (continuing) Warp one, sir. 
 (continuing) Warp two, sir... warp three... 
 Reporting as ordered, Captain. 
 Sit down, please. 
 Sir, I would appreciate Dr. McCoy absenting himself from this interview. 
 I want him here. (indicating) Sit down! 
 You've reported that you felt strong thought emotions. A group of minds from a space vessel? Could you make out any plan, anything to do with Earth? 
 (still formally) Negative, Captain. I could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. I can explain nothing more; I understand nothing more. 
 Also -- there was nothing in your report about why you're here. 
 That inquiry invades my personal life, Captain. 
 I inquired about you -- learned you were studying with the Masters... 
 (facing McCoy for the first time) Your deductions do you credit, Doctor... if your puerile curiosity does not. 
 (beat; nods) I still contain fragments of my human half. 
 And whatever you sensed out here.... 
 ... is my only hope of accomplishing what the Masters could not. 
 Let it drop, Bones. (to Spock) You are my Science Officer -- I'll expect an immediate report on anything further you learn or sense from here on. 
 I have accepted service here as a Starfleet officer... sir. 
 (nods) I know this has been painful, Spock. For me too. Thank you. 
 CHEKOV'S VOICE Red alert! Red alert! 
 Full mag on viewer! 
 (continuing) Linguacode? 
 Continuing friendship messages on all frequencies, sir. 
 All decks and divisions confirm status red. 
 (flat, impassive) We are being scanned, Captain. 
 Do not return scan, Mr. Spock! It may be misinterpreted as hostility! 
 Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un- known to me. 
 (after a moment) No response to friendship messages, Captain. 
 Should I go to battle stations, sir. 
 Negative, We'll take no prov- ocative action. 
 Recommend defensive posture, Captain: Screens and shields. 
 No... (pause) ... that could also be misinter- preted as hostile, Mr. Decker. (to Spock) Cloud composition, Mr. Spock? 
 Twelve power energy field -- 
 (in disbelief) -- twelve power?! 
 (urgently) Captain, we've seen what their weapons can do. Shouldn't we take every possible precaution -- ? 
 Mr Decker.... 
 (interrupting) Captain, I suspect there's an object at the heart of that cloud. 
 (cool) Mr. Decker, I will not provoke an attack, If that order isn't clear to you... 
 (interrupting in mid sentence) Captain, as your Exec, it's my duty to point out alternatives. 
 Five minutes to Cloud boundary! 
 (a look) I stand corrected Mr. Decker. (toward Ilia) Navigator, lay in a conic section flight path into the cloud center; bring us parallel to whatever we find in there... 
 That measures twelve power? Ten thousands of starships couldn't generate that much... 
 They have... they have been communicating with us. I sense ... puzzlement. Why have we not replied? 
 Communicated with us how? 
 Signal medical alert, Mister Chekov! 
 Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, ... mark, zero. Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, mark, zero. 
 (O.S.) Forcefields now...! Deflectors up full! 
 (O.S.) Commencing evasive maneuvers... ! 
 Forcefields and deflectors up full, Captain. 
 Bypass...! Alternate Integrators! 
 The new screens held...! 
 No, I can stop his pain. 
 Captain, the Intruder has been attempting to communicate! Now placing their transmission on the speaker... 
 (continuing) ... frequency more than one million megahertz at such high speed their entire message lasts only a millisecond. 
 I suspect our messages were too slow for them to be noticed. (touches a control) Programming computer to send linguacode at their rate. 
 Here it comes...! 
 Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, mark, zero, point two. Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, zero, mark, zero... 
 (into intercom) Engineering... what's happening to our forcefields?! 
 Systems are overloading, Captain! Our shields cannot handle another attack! 
 (desperately) Mr. Spock? 
 Impact in fifteen seconds... 
 Transmit, Mr. Spock! Now! 
 Ten seconds.... 
 Transmitting...! 
 ILIA'S VOICE ... five seconds. 
 It appears that our message has been understood, Captain. 
 (to Uhura) Any reply from them? 
 Negative, no reply, sir. 
 (returning to Spock) Spock, have you sensed anything else? 
 The 'puzzlement' I sensed was fleeting... minor... (ponders, then) ... as if carrying a sense of our insignificance, Captain. 
 Our... 'insignificance'? 
 We are obviously confronted by a highly advanced mentality... yet they cannot understand who we are, or what we want. 
 But they understood our messages; they broke off the attack. 
 They may have attacked only as a warning to us, Captain. To keep away. 
 That would presuppose a feeling, Commander... compassion. I sensed no emotion, only... (reverentially) ... pure logic. 
 Tactical plot on viewer. 
 Thirty seconds to Cloud boundary... 
 Opinion, Mister. Spock? 
 Recommend we proceede, Captain. 
 Mr. Decker... ? 
 I advise caution, Captain; we can't withstand another attack. 
 That thing is twenty hours from Earth. We know nothing about it yet. 
 That's precisely the point, Captain. We don't know it will do. Moving into the cloud -- at this time, is an unwarranted gamble. 
 How do you define unwarranted, mister?! 
 You asked my opinion, sir. 
 Fifteen seconds to Cloud Boundary. 
 Viewer, standard ahead. 
 (to Helm) Mr. Sulu, steady as she goes. 
 Aye, sir. 
 (staring at viewer, frustrated, awed) No vessel could generate a powerfield of this magnitude... 
 Instruments fluctuating, Captain. Patterns unrecognizable. 
 SULU'S VOICE Captain....! 
 Incredible dimensions, Sir! ... I make it as seventy-eight kilometers in length... 
 It could hold a crew of tens of thousands...! 
 Evaluation, Mister Spock? 
 (awed; compelled) That vessel is generating a forcefield measurably greater than the radiation of the Earth's sun. 
 (turns to Uhura) Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication. 
 (interrupting) Unable to make contact with Starfleet. Our transmissions out of the Cloud are being reflected back. 
 Distance to object now seventy- thousand kilometers... 
 (turning; concerned) We're closing in on it rapidly, Captain. 
 Reduce magnification. Factor 4, Mr. Sulu. 
 (uneasy) We're already two settings below that, sir. 
 (reacts, then) Adjust parallel course, Navigator. Bring us in to one hundred kilometers distance. 
 One hundred kilometers... 
 Hold relative position here... 
 COMPUTER'S VOICE Intruder alert...!  Intruder alert! 
 No weapons...! 
 Security... do not send further teams! 
 (shaken) No intruder readings on other decks, Captain... (to Spock) Can that be one of their crew? 
 (quiet) A probe from their vessel... (to Kirk) A plasma-energy combination... 
 Don't interfere with it...! 
 Absolutely, I will not interfere! 
 No one interfere...! It doesn't seem interested in us -- only the ship...! 
 Computer off! 
 It's taken control of the computer...! 
 It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth defenses... 
 We could have cut it off at the main computer... 
 This served the purpose. 
 Mr. Spock, don't move...! 
 (to Kirk, quiet fury) This is how I define unwarranted! 
. 
 (voice amplified) The ship is under attack...! Man all defensive stations...! 
 Forcefields, full remaining strength...! Total reserve! 
 Captain, we have been seized by a tractor beam...! 
 (to Decker) Get someone up here to take the Navigator's station...! (into intercom) Engineering... full emergency power! 
 (into intercom) Chief Difalco to the bridge; on the double! 
 Going to full emergency... (studying readings) But Captain, if we don't break free in fifteen seconds, she'll burn up... 
 We cannot break free, Captain. (indicates monitors) We do not have a fraction of the power necessary. 
 (into intercom) Delay that order, Scotty...! Disengage all main drive systems! 
 Captain, suggest a maximum phaser strike directly at the beam might weaken it just enough for us to break free -- 
 Break free to where, Commander...? (to Kirk) Any show of resistance would not only be futile, Catain... 
 (troubled; suspicious) We don't know that, Mr. Spock. Why are you opposed to trying? 
 They're pulling us inside...! 
 (to Spock) Why bring us inside? Not to destroy us; they could have done that outside. 
 They could have many ways of destroying things, Mr. Decker. 
 (peering at Viewer) Something about us puzzles them... perhaps even concerns them. 
 Captain, photic-sonar readings indicate the aperture is closing; we're trapped, sir...! 
 Reverse angle on the viewer, Captain. 
 The tractor beam has released us, Captain. 
 Confirmed: Vessel is floating free. No forward momentum. 
 Viewer ahead. 
 Viewer ahead, sir. 
 Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu; ahead one third. (to Spock) Full sensor scan, Mr. Spock; they can't expect us not to look them over now! 
 (manipulating controls) Thrusters ahead, one third. 
 (manipulating controls) Commencing sensor scans. 
 (of Viewer) Something ahead, sir; looks like another area... (reacts) It's closing up...! 
 Hold station...! 
 (manipulating controls) Thrusters at station keeping... 
 Captain... 
 (continuing) All scans are being reflected back, Captain. Our sensors are useless. 
 Have you been able to analyze any of this...? 
 (voice increasingly reverential) I believe the light flares to be energy fields -- undoubtedly part of the vessel's inner mechanism. A technology so incredibly sophisticated that I cannot -- 
 (overlapping) Intruder Alert! Intruder Alert..! (continues) 
 Deck four, Captain; Officers' Quarters...! 
 (to Chekov) Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator! 
 (continuing) Take the conn, Mr. Decker: Hold present position... (gesturing Spock to join him) Spock... 
 "ILIA" I have been programmed by V'ger to observe and record normal functioning of the carbon-based units infesting USS ENTERPRISE. 
 Who is...'V'ger'...? 
 "ILIA" V'ger is that which programmed me. 
 Is V'ger the Captain of the alien vessel? 
 "ILIA" V'ger is that which seeks the Creator. McCOY (of "Ilia") Jim, this is a mechanism...! 
 Where is Lt. Ilia? 
 "ILIA" That unit no longer functions. I have been given its form to more readily communicate with the carbon-based units infesting Enterprise. 
 "Carbon-based units"...? 
 (to "Ilia") Why does V'ger travel to the third planet of the solar system directly ahead? 
 "ILIA" V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator. 
 Find the Creator? What Creator? Whose...!? (to "Ilia") What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'... ? 
 "ILIA" To join with him. 
 Join with the Creator... ? How? 
 "ILIA" V'ger and the Creator will become One. 
 Who is the Creator? 
 "ILIA" The Creator is that which created V'ger. 
 Who is V'ger? 
 "ILIA" V'ger is that which seeks the Creator. 
 "ILIA" (continuing; pleasant, bland) I am ready to commence my observations. 
 (fast; to McCoy) Doctor, a thorough examination of this probe might provide some insight into those who manufactured it, and how to deal with them. 
 "ILIA" I am programmed to observe and record normal functioning procedures of the carbon-based units. 
 The examination is a normal function. 
 "ILIA" (a beat) You may proceede. 
 (impressed) An osmotic micro-pump... here and here. Even the smallest body functions are exactly duplicated. (traces with finger on screen) And every exocrine system is here, too -- 
 (continuing) -- even eye moisture. 
 "ILIA" (peering at Decker) Deck -- er. 
 (to "Ilia") Interesting. Not 'Decker-unit'? 
 Captain... this probe may be a key a key to the Aliens. 
 It's a programmed mechanism, Mr. Spock... 
 We have just seen that its body duplicates our navigator in precise detail. Suppose that beneath its programming, the real Ilia's memory patterns are duplicated with equal precision. 
 They had a pattern to follow... 
 (nods) ... they may have followed it too precisely. 
 (comprehending) Ilia's memory, her feelings of loyalty, friendship, obedience... might all be there. 
 Exactly. (to Decker) And you did have a 'relationship' with Lieutenant Ilia, Commander. 
 That probe in there -- in a different form now -- is the same thing that killed Ilia! 
 Commander, we're locked in an alien vessel, six hours from Earth orbit, our only contact with our captors is the probe. If we can control it, persuade it, use it in some way... 
 "ILIA" I have recorded enough here. (motions to Kirk) You will now assist me further. 
 (indicating Decker) The Decker-unit can assist you with much greater efficiency... 
 (continuing) Carry on with your assignment, Mr. Decker. 
 Aye, sir. 
 Spock? Concerned about his chances? 
 I am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information. 
 (V.O.) Captain's Log. Stardate 7414.1. Our best estimates place us some four hours from Earth. No significant Ilia memory patterns within the alien probe. This remains our only means of contact with our captor. 
 (of pictures) All these vessels were called "Enterprise". 
 A faint signal from Starfleet, sir. They have the intruder on their monitors... (struggling to hear) They show us... three hours... twenty-four minutes from Earth! 
 KIRK'S VOICE (thru intercom) Thank you. 
 The carbon units use this area for recreation... (carefully) What type of recreation does the crew aboard your vessel enjoy...? 
 "ILIA" The words 'recreation' and 'enjoy' have no meaning to my programming. 
 Ilia 'enjoyed' this game... she nearly always won -- 
 "ILIA" This device serves no purpose. 
 Damn...! 
 The crews of the previous Enterprises were also carbon units. In what way is the life form in your vessel different? 
 "ILIA" Carbon units are not true life forms... Do those images repre- sent how Enterprise has evolved into its present form? 
 (hoping he's struck a responsive chord) Yes. 
 "ILIA" Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement. 
 (controlling surprise) What is Enterprise's proper evolvement? 
 "ILIA" Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units. 
 (carefully) Enterprise would be unable to function without carbon units. 
 "ILIA" More data concerning this functioning is necessary before carbon units can be patterned for data storage. 
 What does that mean? 
 "ILIA" (stopping; almost pleasantly) When my examination is complete, the carbon units will be reduced to data patterns. 
 Within you are memory patterns of a carbon unit. If I can help you revive these patterns; you could understand our functions better. 
 "ILIA" That is logical. You may procede. 
 Computer, commence recording. Captain Kirk -- this message will detail my attempt to contact the aliens... 
 Starfleet signals, sir, growing in strength... (listening intently) They -- have Intruder on their monitors -- it's decelerating -- powerfield cloud beginning to dissipate... 
 Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit... 
 (interrupting) Sir! Airlock four has been opened; a thruster suit is reported missing! 
 (reacts knowingly) Spock...! (to navigator) Get a fix on his position! 
 (from the start) ... I don't want him stopped, Bones; I want him to lead me to whatever's out there...! 
 Then he'll have still led me to it, won't he? 
 SULU'S VOICE Bridge, Captain. We make Spock as 26 Mark 345 degrees off ship's axis. 
 I have him in sight. 
 I remember Lt. Ilia once mentioning that she wore this... 
 (reacting; tight) ... when we met. 
 (gently) Put it on. 
 (helpfully) Ilia... 
 (quiet; urging) On Delta... remember...? 
 "ILIA" (haltingly) Dr. Chapel... 
 "ILIA" (to Decker) "Will..." 
 (gently; but urgingly) Ilia, help us make direct contact with V'ger... 
 "ILIA I... cannot. 
 Then tell us who V'ger is; where he's from... W need your help. 
 "ILIA" Why have two carbon units entered V'ger...? 
 They want to make contact with V'ger... (trying to revive "Ilia's" memory again; touches her hand) Ilia... 
 (continuing; distressed, to "Ilia") Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units? 
 "ILIA" The carbon units are of no consequence; V'ger will determine their purpose. 
 "ILIA" That is also V'ger's purpose. 
 You said V'ger's purpose was to find and join with the Creator. 
 "ILIA" That is how V'ger will survive. 
 "ILIA" I wish to continue my observations. 
 Bridge...! 
 KIRK'S VOICE ... stand by, I may be in trouble... 
 Your phaser, Captain...! Use your phaser...! 
 KIRK'S VOICE (transmitter, weak) Can't... reach... phas -- (transmission breaks off in heavy STATIC) 
 Airlocks two and four -- prepare to launch rescue teams! (glancing at viewer) Chief Lang! Get them out there! Fast! 
 Mr. Spock, the Captain is in trouble, directly behind you -- three hundred meters! (beat) Mr. Spock! 
 KIRK'S VOICE (weak; STATIC) ... Spock...! ... need help...! ... trapped...! 
 KIRK'S VOICE (continuing; weakening; STATIC) ... pressure on me...! ... can't move...! Spock...! 
 Bridge, cancel rescue teams. (hard) Spock, what in the hell are you doing out here! 
 I am seeking answers, Captain. 
 (with insight) Answers to what, Spock? Our dilemma -- or your personal one? 
 (pointing) Captain, I believe there we will find an indication of whoever -- or whatever -- is aboard this vessel... 
 It would appear that the atomic arrays of these crystals store information. A remarkably efficient system. 
 (indicates) And these 'sensor-swarms' collect that data, carry it here. 
 (nods; indicates) New crystals: they must contain the most recent data obtained -- 
 Klingons... our Epsilon 9 station ... and Ilia!! They seem to be more than just images... 
 (agreeing) Exact patterns. The energy bolt that hit them wasn't simply a weapon -- it dematerialized them, stored them. But why? 
 If this is their ship's data banks, where is the crew? Or is their entire ship automated? 
 Captain, I do not believe there is a crew -- or that this is a vessel as such. 
 (continuing) I am almost certain now that all of this is V'ger -- I believe that we are inside a life form, a living machine. 
 I must attempt mindmeld with it, Captain. 
 (warningly) Spock... 
 Spock, if you're right, its mind may be enormous... 
 SPOCK'S EYES. 
 Now scanning pons area at spinal nerve fiber connection... 
 (quiet) Jim... 
 (continuing) This simple feeling... (looks at Kirk) ... is so far beyond V'ger's comprehension. 
 (gently) Were you right? Spock? V'ger is a living machine...? 
 (nodding) A life form of its own; a conscious, living entity. 
 (reacting) A living machine...?! 
 And it considers the Enterprise a living machine: that's why the probe refers to our ship as an entity. 
 If it thinks our ship is alive what does it think we are? 
 I saw V'ger's planet: a planet populated by living machines. Unbelievable technology. (pained) V'ger has knowledge that spans this universe. And... in all this order... all this magnificence, V'ger feels no awe...no delight... no beauty... (a beat; exhausted) I should have known... 
 Know what, Spock? What? 
 (continuing) What should you have known? 
 (weak) No meaning... No hope... (summoning strength) And, Jim, no answers...! Jim, it's looking for answers itself! 
 What answers? 
 'Is this all I am? Is there not more?' 
 UHURA'S VOICE A faint signal from Starfleet, sir! Intruder Cloud has been located on their outer monitors for past twenty-seven minutes... dissipating rapidly as it approaches. 
 SULU'S VOICE Starfleet reports forward velocity has slowed to sub-warp speed! We are three minutes from Earth's orbit!- 
 (into intercom) I'll be right there... (to Chapel; crisp) I need Spock on the bridge. 
 A machine planet...? Sending a machine to Earth looking for its Creator...? 
 'To find the Creator,' the probe said. Find God...? 
 Mr. Chekov, Commander Decker's present location? 
 CHEKOV'S VOICE He... they... are in Engineering, sir. 
 (into intercom) I want to make a ship's announcement. But it's to be heard only in Engineering. 
 UHURA'S VOICE Ready, Captain. 
 (voice amplified) This is the Captain speaking. It appears that the alien ship... V'ger... is NOT a manned vessel... 
 KIRK'S VOICE (amplified) It is a living entity...! A machine life form. We are attempting to ascertain its intentions. All personnel will maintain yellow alert status! 
 A machine...! Then it had to be programmed. By whom...? 
 "ILIA" By the Creator. 
 (probing) To join, and become One with the Creator? 
 "ILIA" To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming. 
 Well, sir, now what about all that? A living entity, the Captain says... entity... A living thing...! 
 Thank you, Scotty... 
 (dourly) Your welcome, sir. 
 "ILIA" There is no logical reason for carbon units to control Enterprise's power systems. 
 (to "Ilia") Lassie, if I were functioning 'logically,' right now I'd be showing you the inside of our scrap metal compactor! 
 We're now locked into Starfleet's transceivers; Admiral Nogura has received your reports, sir. 
 The visual is a lunar monitor relay, sir. 
 (continuing) Heavy interference, sir -- it's coming from here, inside the intruder itself... 
 Puzzling! The interference appears to be a rather simple carrier wave code signal... 
 On an old style radio frequency, sir... 
 "ILIA" (to Decker; interrupting) As I stated, V'ger calls to the Creator. 
 (nods; turns to Kirk) V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir -- that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect... 
 "ILIA" 'To learn all that is learnable.' 
 (to Kirk) It expects a return signal now, ordering it to transmit that information to the Creator. 
 (whirling) Sir! V'ger's signals have stopped... 
 "ILIA" (as if frightened) Decker... The Creator has not responded. 
 Picking up Starfleet again; a lunar monitor relay... 
 (interrupting; from science console) These read as identical composition... (turns to Kirk) ... however, Captain, they measure several hundred times more powerful! 
 High mag, Mr. Sulu! 
 The third one is moving off too -- a fourth one is forming... 
 (overlapping) Urgent signal from Starfleet, Captain! (turns, shaken) All Earth defense systems have gone dead. 
 (continuing) Sir, Starfleet computes their trajectories as moving toward equidistant positions over Earth. 
 From four equidistant positions, Captain, a detonation would blanket the entire surface of the planet. 
 I plot them as reaching equidistant positions in... twenty-nine minutes, sir... mark! 
 Why...?! 
 "ILIA" The carbon-units infection will now be removed from the Creator's planet. 
 Why?! 
 "ILIA" The Creator has not answered. 
 The carbon-units are not responsible for that. 
 "ILIA" You infest and control Enterprise. V'ger believes carbon-units interfere with the Creator in the same manner. 
 (to Kirk) Then V'ger believes the Creator to be a machine too. 
 (nods) It seems we all imagine God in our own image. 
 (grimly amused) Of course: we all create God in our own image. 
 V'ger! If we are lesser beings, we are still, like you, living. And because we are alive, we -- like you -- wish to survive. You must not destroy -- 
 (quiet, terse) Captain... (reaches Kirk) Treat V'ger as you would... a child. 
 Child...!? 
 Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood -- learning, searching -- instinctively needing. 
 (intrigued) Needing what...? 
 It doesn't know what it needs, Comm          ander... (to Kirk) It does not know. 
 (abruptly to "Ilia") The carbon--units-know-why-the Creator-has-not-responded. 
 (to "Ilia," urgingly) Ilia... we can help V'ger find what it needs -- 
 "ILIA" (to Kirk, hard) Disclose the information. 
 (cool, calm) Not until V'ger withdraws the devices orbiting the third planet. 
 "ILIA" KIRK UNIT! DISCLOSE THE 
! 
 (to "Ilia," almost pleasant) No. (then to crew commandingly) Secure all stations. Clear the bridge. 
 (amplified) Bridge to all decks,secure your stations. 
 Clear the bridge, Captain...? 
 That was the order, Mr. Sulu: Clear the bridge. 
. (leaving bridge; to Captain) Severe stress on engine pylons, sir. 
 "ILIA" (to Kirk; flat) V'ger requires the information. 
 Bridge secure all stations! Move out! 
 All ship's functions going to automatic, Captain. 
 If V'ger destroys the Enterprise, the information V'ger requires will also be destroyed. 
 "ILIA" It is illogical to withhold required information. 
 "ILIA" (almost polite) Kirk-unit, why do you not disclose information? 
 Because V'ger is going to destroy all the carbon units on the third planet. 
 "ILIA" They have repressed the Creator. 
 The information will not be disclosed. 
 "ILIA" (almost a plea) V'ger needs the information. 
 Then V'ger must withdraw its orbiting devices. 
 "ILIA" V'ger will comply if the carbon units disclose the information. 
 Captain, the vessel -- V'ger -- obviously operates from a central brain complex... 
 (to Spock) The orbiting devices would be controlled from the point, then...? 
 Precisely. 
 The carbon units' information cannot be disclosed to V'ger's probe... only to V'ger directly. 
 Forward motion, Captain...! 
 A tractor beam... 
 Captain, what's the next move? 
 The question is, Mr. Decker, is there a next move... 
 Resume duty stations, Mr. Decker. 
 (into intercom, voice amplified) All personnel resume stations...! 
 Well, Mr. Decker, it seems my bluff is being called. 
 I'm afraid our hand is pretty weak, Captain. (slight smile) But it's the only game in town. 
 Mr. Chekov, when do those devices activate? 
 They reach final position in... Twenty-seven minutes -- mark. 
 (a beat; then into intercom) Engineering... 
 Scott, here, sir. 
 (into intercom, eyes on "Ilia") Mr. Scott, be prepared to execute Starfleet order two zero zero five. 
 (with a glance at Ross, into intercom) When, Captain? 
 (somberly, into intercom) Aye, sir. 
 Why has the Captain ordered self- destruct, sir? 
 (a beat; gently) I would say, lass, because he thinks -- he hopes -- that when we go up... we'll take V'ger with us. 
 Will we? 
 (with grim satisfaction) When that much matter and anti- matter are brought together? Oh, yes; we will, indeed. 
 Twenty-five minutes to device activation, sir. 
 Starfleet has been apprised of our situation, Captain. 
 Tractor beam remains constant... 
 We are seventeen kilometers inside the vessel... 
 Spock... Spock... 
 (starts) Mr. Spock -- I think... 
 (quiet, feeling) Not for us? 
 No, Captain, not for us... for V'ger. 
 (continuing) I weep for V'ger, as I would for a brother -- far more knowledgeable than I -- and yet one step behind. 
 As I was -- when I came aboard... so is V'ger now: empty, incomplete. Searching. Logic and knowledge are not enough. 
 Has not, Doctor -- and now, because of what we are planning... will not... 
 (almost hard) There is no alternative. 
 (gently pressing) Mr. Spock, what would V'ger need to fulfill itself? 
 V'ger has begun to understand the true limits of our universe, thereby realizing the existence of other dimensions. To fulfill itself it must evolve to a higher dimension; V'ger believes this can be achieved only by joining with the Creator. 
 SPOCK (ALTERNATIVE) Each of us, at some time in our life, turns to someone, a father, a brother, a God and asks 'Why am I here?' 'What was I meant to be?' V'ger hopes to touch its Creator to find its answers. 
 (understanding) 'Is this all that I am? Is there nothing more? 
 
 Captain...! 
 (flat) Captain, I believe that is our destination. 
 Forward motion slowing, Captain...! 
 (into intercom) Engineering... Status, Mr. Scott? 
 (into intercom) Thank you, Scotty. Stand by. 
 Tractor beam strength lessening, Captain. 
 (into intercom) Mr. Scott... on my next signal. 
 (fast) Captain, the orbital device will     (ALT.) not be triggered for twenty-two      (nineteen...) minutes...                           (fifteen...) 
 The point... (Your) 
 (eying "Ilia"; carefully) The point is, Captain, twenty-two    (ALT. 
 (shakes head, no) (ALT: "19",)    (Mr. Spock), if we do not provide (     "15  )    V'ger with certain information, we won't have twenty-two seconds; the plan must be implemented upon arrival. 
 Captain, we can't be sure that our... move... will actually save Earth. 
 No! 
 Forward motion stopped, Captain. 
 Tractor beam is released. 
 "ILIA" (indicating viewer) V'ger... 
 (into intercom: with finality) Mr. Scott... 
 Captain... I read an oxygen and gravity envelope forming outside the Enterprise...! 
 Sir, I have located the source of V'ger's radio signal: (it's) directly ahead. 
 That transmitter is a vital link between V'ger and the Creator. (its) 
 (urging) (ALT. "18",)   We have twenty-one minutes. Captain, (.... "14" )   we can still save V'ger... and ourselves. 
 "ILIA" The carbon units will now provide V'ger the required information. 
 (into intercom) Mr. Scott... we're holding off; there may be a chance... (rises, gestures Spock and McCoy) Spock, Bones... 
 Mr. Decker... I will contact you every five minutes. Otherwise... inform Mr. Scott immediately. 
 (calls after him) Captain... I'd like to go along... 
 Mr. Sulu, you have the conn... 
 V'ger plans to literally meld to reduce both itself and the Creator to patterns... 
 ... and then to reassemble itself combined with the Creator. The most certain way of obtaining all the Creator's answers. 
 (to "Ilia") Our data is being prepared. 
 "ILIA" Answer! 
 We will answer and present proof of our answer when it is ready! 
 (continuing) V'ger, we will bring the Creator to you! Here! 
 We need only a few more minutes. Believe me... 
 Ilia, believe me... the Creator will appear! 
 Problem, Captain: the response signal is not in our records. Voyager Six was sent out by Earth's "United States Subdivision.' The code was probably... 
 And when V'ger melds? What will happen to you? 
 "ILIA" It will... take me from you... 
 There's no way to know. V'ger expected it to be a machine -- some single entity. (indicates entire site) All of us here may be reduced into patterns... 
 That seems to be what it has planned -- to have the Creator physically present here. 
 Commander... 
 (continuing; into communicator) Kirk here. 
 Stand by. Transmit it on my orders. 
 (continuing) Enterprise... transmit. 
 Recording... 
 Enterprise, are you transmitting? 
 Confirm code and transmitting frequency. 
 (calling) Captain Kirk! 
 (continuing) The fault is here, sir, not in the transmission. (indicating into hatch) The antenna leads have been disconnected. V'ger never intended to accept a transmitted signal. 
 Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come here!... 
 And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this... (indicates into access) ... point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder playback. 
 (lifting communicator) Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit! 
 Jim... he wants it. 
 You got the Enterprise, it's what you wanted. This is what I want. (smiles) But, Jim... (now very seriously) ... I'm the right choice for this mission. 
 Spock, we were its answer! 
 (nods) Yes, Captain. It needed our mortality, the fear of it, our struggle against it, our fears, our dreams... 
 ... and the 'foolish' emotions which drive us? 
 (looks at Kirk; then) I prefer your poet Dante's phrase -- 'the divine restlessness of the human spirit.' 
 Starfleet signal, Captain! Return to orbital dockyard for inspection. 
 Ignore that signal. (to Scott) Shall we give the Enterprise a proper shakedown, Mr. Scott? 
 (suddenly beaming) I'd say it's time for that, I would, sir. (toward Spock) We can have you back on Vulcan in four days, Mr. Spock. 
 (coolly) I have no business on Vulcan, Engineer. 
 Ahead Warp One, Mr. Sulu. 
 Heading, sir? 
 (taking center seat; indicates generally) Out there.  Thataway. 
 
