 
 (to camera) I was born jaundiced. Once I sat on a toilet seat at a Truck stop and caught hemorrhoids. And i've learned to live with this chicken Bone that's been lodged in my throat for the past three years, so I knew Dad would be devastated when he learned of my latest affliction. (to Harry) Dad, I don't wanna upset you, but my left breast is developing at a significantly faster rate than my right. It can only mean one thing.  Cancer.  I'm dying. 
 (ignoring Vada) O.K. Sweetie, hand me the mayonnaise out of the fridge. 
 All right, who's in raise your hand. 
 Are you coming or not Thomas J? 
 J I don't think so. 
 I knew he wouldn't come. 
 J I can't, I have to go home. 
#2 Yeah, to play with his DOLLS. 
 Leave him alone! Come on, let's go. 
 (to boy#2) Hey, you didn't pay me! 
#2 How do I know you were gonna show us one? 
 You're such a baby. 
#2 All right, here. 
 All right, follow me and don't say a word. 
#3 I'm not chicken! 
 Okay. Lean forward. 
#1 It's empty! 
#2 You're so weird! 
 I want my money back! 
 I was afraid of this. 
#2 Of what?? 
 Well, sometimes when we get 'em, they're not completely dead, you know, like when they cut a chickens head off and it still runs around crazy. 
#3 You're full of shit. 
 I bet she's roaming around this house somewhere. 
 Hi Grammoo. 
 (in distance, from downstairs) Vada would you bring down my cigarettes? 
 Seeya later. (kisses Grammoo on forehead) 
 Did I tell you, he was my woodshop teacher. 
 You took woodshop? 
 Yeah, I made a tie rack. 
 I made a tie rack. 
 Ahem. 
 Vada, just put 'em on the stool. 
 Daddy guess what I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday. 
 (completely ignoring Vada's comment) Ya, that rack holds six ties. 
 I still have mine. 
 Arthur!! 
 Vada!! 
 I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday. 
 Good for you baby. 
 Once you put the hotels on board walk and Park Place he puts a shoe in your way. 
 I like to buy off all the railroads. 
 Vada, we're trying to work here. 
 
 Cruella deville stole all the puppies, she was gonna make a fur out of 'em! 
 (to Arthur) Hand me the canula. 
 (annoyed) 
! 
 Dad? 
 I'm embalming my high school teacher, don't sing. (beat) All right Arthur, just a slide of the needle..... (fades out as Vada climbs stairs) 
 (to corpse) One nice model C-501 bronze stainless eternal journey, yeah, you look like a champion. 
 Is Mr. Harry Sultenfuss in? 
 Sure, come on in. 
 (puzzled look) Could I see your Dad, just for a second? 
 DAD, SOMEBODY'S HERE!! 
 Oh. 
 How may I... Help you? 
 I'm Shelly devoto. We spoke, the other day regarding the make up artist job. 
 Oh yes. 
 I think it's still available. 
 Uhh, Miss devoto... 
 Uhh, Miss devoto, these people are already at ease. This is not a Beauty Parlor, it's a Funeral Parlor. 
 Yes they are. 
 (for want of a better word) Deceased. 
 Ahh, excuse me a second will you? (opens door) Hi George, this is a twelve-fifty-eight, I didn't want the burnished handles. (door closes off scene) 
 Is that your camper? 
 That's really cool. 
 She's shy. 
 Just put it back in the display room fellers. 
 Okay Harry. 
 Daddy, how come that coffin's so small? 
 They come in all sizes honey, just like shoes. 
 Is it for a child? 
 Of course not. 
 Then who's it for? 
 Short people, very short people. 
 Pardon? 
 Oh, You still want it? Even though uhh... 
 You'd be doing hair and makeup and answering the phone. 
 Great, you can start right away. Call me Harry. Now, umm, is this what you'd normally wear for work? Don't get me wrong, I like it, very much, but the.... 
 J Hey look at this, no feet! 
 Oh wow, a real evil canieval. 
 WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING IN MY GARAGE, GET 
!!! 
 Hi Vada, what's wrong today? 
 I'm very sick. 
 Okay, take a seat, i'll check if the doctor can see you. 
 Okay, he'll see you, why don't you go in? 
 Well, what is it? I can handle it. 
 You are perfectly healthy. 
 That can't be, I have all the classic symptoms. 
 Sweetheart, did they bring Mr. Layton to your house today? 
 Yes. 
 Vada you've gotta stop this, there's absolutely nothing wrong with you! 
 I'll just have to get a second opinion. 
 J So, what'd he say was wrong with you? 
 The whole medical profession is a crack. 
 J Hey wait up for me! 
 Hey look! 
 J At what? 
 That's Mr. Bixler, let's go talk to him. 
 J I don't wanna talk to a teacher, it's summer! 
 Hi Mr. Bixler! 
 MR. BIXLER Mademoiselle Sultenfuss and the amazing Dr. J! How's the summer treating you? 
 It's okay. Mr. Bixler, I finished all the books for summer reading. 
 MR. BIXLER Really? Already? The summer's just begun. 
 Yes, and now I'm reading War & Peace for fun. 
 MR. BIXLER No wonder you're my prize pupil. What about you Thomas J? 
 J I haven't started yet. 
 MR. BIXLER Better get on his case Vada. 
 Mr. Bixler, how come you're painting this old house? 
 MR. BIXLER Well I just bought it, now I'm fixing it up. 
 This is one big house for one single person. 
 MR. BIXLER Well, you never can tell... (Vada gets worried look on her face) I might get a pet. (Vada's expression relaxes, she smiles) 
 How are you gonna get the money for this old house if you're not working? 
 MR. BIXLER Well I'm gonna teach creative writing this summer, so, I'm doing some work. 
 How much does it cost? 
 MR. BIXLER Thirty five dollars. 
 What do you get for that? 
 MR. BIXLER Me, two hours a week, talking about poetry. This an interrogation Vada? 
 No. Well, guess i'll go home and finish off War & Peace. 
 MR. BIXLER It's summer! You're kids! Go play! 
 J Wanna go to Gray's orchard and pick some peaches? 
 No, I'm going home. 
 J Why? It's not dinner time yet. 
 Dinner time?? You're like a dog! You just go home to eat. 
 VADA'S BEDROOM 
 
 Oh, she's just pretending. Vada, get up here and eat your broccoli! 
 (very sick sounding voice) I think it's my prostate. 
 I got rhythm, I got music, I got my man who could ask for anything more? I got daisies, in green pastures, I got my man, who could ask for anything more? 
 
 I am. 
#1 Look, there's Vada and her little BOYFRIEND (very mocking voice) 
 He is not my boyfriend! 
#2 I bet she kissed him on the lips! 
 Do you think I kissed that ugly old thing? 
 J Yeah anyway. 
#2 Come on let's go. 
 GIRL#1 & GIRL#2 Judy's father owns the movie theater and we get to see all the movies WE want for free. 
 Maybe you can come some time. 
#2 Eeeuww, don't invite HER, she'll have to bring her boyfriend. 
#2 (together) Vada and Thomas, sitting in a tree, K-I-S-S- I-N-G, first comes love, then comes marriage, then comes Thomas J in a baby carriage. 
 I'm not upset. I will never play with those girls. I only surround myself with people who I find intellectually stimulating. 
 J I'm allergic to it. 
 He's allergic to everything. 
 VADA & THOMAS J 
. 
 It's a mood ring, it tells what mood I'm in. 
 J It doesn't work, it always stays black. (NOTE ring is BLACK) 
 It's only black when you're around 'cause you put me in a bad mood. 
 I don't think so. (pause) Shelly, how can I get thirty five dollars? 
 J She's crazy, she wants to go to school over the summer. 
 It's not a real school, it's a writing class, I wanna be a writer. 
 J She only wants to do it because her sweetie pie's the teacher. 
 Shut your big fat mouth! 
 He won't give it to me. 
 
 Daddy, can I have thirty five dollars? 
 That's a lot of money for a little girl. 
 It's for school, for summer writing class. 
 (engrossed with TV show) Any more soda left? 
 Shelly thinks I'd be a good writer. 
 Last month you wanted to play the violin. Then you wanted to be a ventriloquist. 
 Dad? 
 (referring to TV) I love this guy! (he laughs) 
 Dad?? 
 What? 
 The money? 
 Ahh, maybe next summer. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS He forgot about the time I wanted to be a magician, I was really great at making myself disappear. 
 
 Wanna play? 
 No, I gotta go to the cemetery, keep your head up. Don't look at the ball, look at me. 
 
 (extremely frightened and timid) My ball, I lost my ball. 
 
 Uh huh? 
 Yeah. 
 This was the Reverend Porter's wife, you have her looking like a two dollar hooker. 
 She did. This photo was taken a month ago at the church food drive. 
 That wasn't an image. She WAS an old school Marm. (beat) Fix it. 
 What do you mean?? 
 Oh that, she just likes to play. 
 She was raised in a funeral home, she knows a thing or two about it. 
 (annoyed) She's a perfectly happy eleven year old girl, look, don't give me any advice about my daughter, okay? 
 There's Shelly! 
 Can we look around in your camper? 
 J Wow, this is the coolest thing, like you really eat and sleep here? 
 J I'm gonna drive us to Liverpool. 
 Big Ringo fan. 
 I would. 
 J Yes please. 
 J What are you reading? 
 Did you read ALL these books? 
 What are they about? 
 J Eeeeuuuww, gross. 
 Are you married? 
 Daddy said it's bad when people get divorced. 
 J Mine aren't divorced. 
 J Hey, where are all the cookies?? 
 J What are you saving for? 
 J I'm supposed to be home at noon for lunch, thanks Shelly. 
 Can I use your bathroom first? 
 You don't have to wait, daddy'll be mad if you're late. 
 MR. BIXLER The great way, is not difficult for those with no preferences, with the absence of both love and hate, everything becomes clear and undisguised. That was written by a Chinese Philosopher in the year 600. Now why would I choose to bring that up in a creative writing class? Because, the absence of judgment helps us to appreciate reality. In other words, I want you to listen to your classmates writing, with a clear and open heart, okay? So who's gonna go first? 
 I got one. 
#2 That's not funny, his poem is about futility, we toil in unrewarded obscurity. 
 MR. BIXLER Now, I hear judgment, let's not forget the part about the open heart... 
 (very nervous) I paid the money. 
 MR. BIXLER For this class? 
 Uh huh, I wanna be a writer. 
 MR. BIXLER Vada, this is an adult writing class. 
 Hey, I think it's real beautiful. She want's to be a writer. 
 MR. BIXLER Vada, you sure you wanna do this? 
 MR. BIXLER Welcome to the class, go find a seat. 
 I experienced something with my boyfriend the other day, and I wrote a few words down. 
 MR. BIXLER The floor's yours Ronda. 
 He covers me like a blanket, from the cold, dark night, As I look into his eyes, I know it's right, To touch, To feel, I know he's real, Flesh all a mush, Flesh ALL a mush, I can't fight it, There's no point, I wake up in Lighter joint. 
 MR. BIXLER Uhhh, va, uhh, Vada. 
 I wrote a poem too. 
 MR. BIXLER Please. 
 Loads of ice-cream by Vada Sultenfuss I like ice-cream a whole lot, It tastes good when days are hot, On a cone or in a dish, This would be my only wish, Vanilla, chocolate or rocky road, Even with pie a la mode. 
 I hear that Vada, Flesh all a Mush or Rocky Road, it's about desire. 
 MR. BIXLER Vada that's... It's very sweet, and it rhymes and that's also good  but, you're not expressing to me what's in your soul. I want you to show me how you see the world, your fears, your desires, your innermost secrets. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS My fears and secrets. I'm afraid I killed my mother. 
 (sung, to Grammoo) Can not do without, Harry's wild about me. 
 Thanks, listen I wanna apologize for the other day downstairs, about Vada, I was a little harsh. 
 After my wife died, Grammoo moved in here to help take care of Vada. They were very close, but lately as her mind's been wandering more and more, Vada's been acting kinda crazy. I'm sure she'll snap out of it though. 
 J Nothing's biting today. 
 Maybe they had a big breakfast. 
 J (hanging from tree) I'm gonna be an acrobat when I grow up. 
 Big deal, I can do that too. (Thomas J's reel begins to click) Thomas J, you got something! 
 J Oh no! (he jumps down from the tree) 
. 
 Hurry! 
 J I'm trying. 
 Reel it in. (Thomas J reels the fish in) He's only tiny, throw him back. 
 J I don't like touching fish, how do you pull the hook out without touching it? 
 You're hurting him, don't kill him!! 
 Ouch! Darn hook! 
 I'm bleeding, did he get away? Go look. 
 J Yeah he got away. Come on let's go. 
 Hey, we can become blood brothers. 
 J Naah, I don't wanna. 
 You could pick that scab on your arm. 
 J It's a mosquito bite. 
 It'll bleed. 
 J If I do it, can we go? 
 Uh huh. 
 J Okay, OW! 
 Okay, rub them together. 
 Now we're blood brothers for life. 
 
 Oh Hi, what can I do for you? 
 Oh, I'm just typing up a funeral notice, you know when someone dies people want it in the paper usually, it's a service we provide for the family. 
 I wrote that. 
 I prefer it to "instead", it has more dignity. 
 It's no big deal. 
 I haven't been to the movies in AGES. 
 I do enjoy playing bingo, if you'd like to join me for a game tomorrow night at church you're welcome to. 
 Are you going out somewhere? 
 So how come you're putting lipstick on? 
 I think lipstick looks fake, no-ones lips are that color. 
 No. 
 Shelly, do you think I'm pretty? 
 The boys at school don't think I am. 
 Do you like putting makeup on people? 
 Shelly, I would definitely hold off on that Hollywood thing. 
 J Your lip bleeding? 
 No. 
 J What's wrong with your eyes? 
 A girl can never wear enough eye shadow. 
 J Where's your bike? 
 Oh, in the garage. Walk me over. 
 It's only a garage, come on. 
 Hey, one of my streamers is gone! It probably fell off in here. 
 J Hey look at this! 
 That was Grammoo's. It's a phrenology chart, they used to study the bumps in your head to see if you had a good personality or not. Come here, i'll diagnose your head. 
 J No, I don't wanna. 
 Come on, it's fun. 
 Hmmmm, interesting. 
 J What? 
 You have no personality. 
 J Hey, where does it say that? 
 Never mind. 
 J Is that your Dad? 
 Yes. 
 J Who's that with your Dad? 
 It's my mother. 
 J Do you remember her? 
 No. Grammoo said she's in heaven. 
 J What do you think it's like? 
 What? 
 J Heaven. 
 I think, everybody gets their own white horse, and all they do is ride and eat marshmallows all day, and everybody's best friends with everybody else, when you play sports, there's no teams, so nobody gets picked last. 
 J But, what if you're afraid to ride horses? 
 It doesn't matter, 'cause they're not regular horses, they got wings, and it's no big deal if you fall, you just land in cloud. 
 J That doesn't sound so bad, come on, we'll never find that streamer. 
 Well well well, what's going on in here? 
 Nothing, I'm dressing. 
 Oh, you're dressing, uh huh, Harry Harry Harry Harry, don't you know it's not nice to lie to your big brother? 
 HEY! WATCH THE HAIR!! THIS SHIRT GIVES!!! ALL 
!!!! 
 Oh yes, oh that's great. 
 I'm very nervous. 
 Why? 
 The last date I had was twenty years ago. 
 That's true. Harry Harry sit down, let me fill you in on today's women, since the last time you dated, something happened, "The Sexual Revolution", now before that, you used to have to hold a door open for a woman, pull her chair out, pick up the check, no more no more, you wanna know what else is missing? 
! 
 Oh come on. 
 Harry, I'm serious, trust me Harry this woman's lifting us in, you gotta treat her like every Tom Dick and Harry. 
 Are you sure about all this? 
 Did you not tell Vada I'm a womanizer huh? 
 Oh, I'm running late. Shelly'll be here any minute. 
 Oh she's picking you up, good you're on the right track. 
 No, she's just driving over here, then we're taking my car. How do I look? 
 Like a Sultenfuss. Go get 'em. 
 Goodnight Vada. 
 Dad, why are you dressed up to go to bingo? 
 Ahh, I just wanna look nice. 
 You never cared before. 
 Well Shelly's coming over, we're gonna go together. 
 Why? 
 She likes to play bingo. 
 Can I go too? 
 Naah, I think you'd better stay here and keep Grammoo company. 
 J Vada? Vada?? Where are you?? 
 Here. 
 J Don't DO that!! 
 Sorry. 
 J What do you want? My mom will skin me alive if she finds I'm out here. 
 Let's go to the church, they're playing bingo tonight. 
 J I told you i'll get in trouble. 
 Pacifist! 
 J I am not. 
 Bed wetter! 
 J I stopped that! 
 Don't worry, there's a strategy to bingo. For instance, on a given night anybody can win, but I play the odds, when choosing bingo cards, I use a range of theories from the laws of probability to avoiding duplicate number systems. This way you get much more activity. 
 No. Just, more activity. 
 (as he sits down, to the person next to him) Hi Carl. 
 J They're not gonna let us in Vada, we're kids. 
 We're not gonna bet, we're just gonna watch. 
 J Watch bingo? I don't even like to play bingo. 
 Duck! 
 J Hey there's your Dad and Shelly. 
 Ssshhhhh, I don't want them to see me. 
 What's that? 
 Why d'you think these seats were empty. 
 J Can we go yet? 
 Go??? 
 J You know I'm not allowed outside my myself after dark. 
 Look, it's not always luck, I mean, depending upon the placement of the numbers, a guy with 10 cards could win just as easily as a guy with 100. 
 Oh, how do you mean? 
 (in semi-deep fake voice) 
! 
 We have a winner. Will the winner please raise their hand? 
 There was no bingo, it came from outside. 
 How could someone outside get a bingo? 
 Someone outside didn't get a bingo, someone outside yelled bingo you moron! 
 Who are you calling a mowon? (false teeth) 
 VERNON'S WIFE Put a lid on it Vernon! 
 Put a lid on it?? If you weren't 200 years old, I'd kick your wrinkled ARSE!! 
 Hey fellers fellers, it's just a bingo game. 
 We can go now. 
 I haven't had a bingo partner in ages. 
 Okay, sure. 
 It's nice. 
 Well it certainly looks bigger that it seems. 
 Yeah. 
 No, why? 
 Oh, that was Phil, trying to give me advice on dating 70's women. Look I'm so out of touch, I haven't dated women in ages, not since my wife died. 
 Ahh, complications during child birth, she died two days after Vada was born. 
 I brought the baby into the room a couple of times, she opened her eyes, yeah, yeah I think she saw Vada. It was..... 
 Here? 
 Is there enough room? 
 I haven't danced in..... 
 Rock? 
 At Widdman High I was considered a pretty hot date, I did a killer frugue. 
 Old Spice, Phil says it's a timeless classic. 
 Want to what? 
 Yes. 
 I ahh, better go. 
 Goodnight Shelly. 
 
 I'm tired of bingo, maybe we should try that drive in of yours. 
 VADA'S ROOM 
 MR. BIXLER Before the class started, Ronda and Justin wanted to lead the class in a group meditation. 
 Ooooh that's really cool. 
 Okay what we're gonna do is, send our vibes out into the group. 
 Everybody hold hands, and close your eyes. Relax your muscles and take deep breaths. 
 Now, try to feel what the other person is feeling, without speaking any words, send out your vibe, and receive the vibes around you at the same time. Can you feel it? 
 Okay, open your eyes. What did everybody feel? 
 I felt Mrs. Hunsaker's strength. 
 I can feel that Ronda is one with the Earth, she's so cosmically in tune. 
 So right on, that's exactly what I sent out, and I felt like, you were full of inner peace and harmony. 
 MR. BIXLER Vada, what did you feel. 
 I felt Justin's hangnail. 
 No Vada, that's not what we're looking for, a hangnail is insignificant. What's in my soul, feel my aura. 
 I don't think I'm allowed to. 
 I tell you what, let's try it again, hold hands. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS Grammoo once had a hangnail on her big toe. It got infected and traveled to her vocal chords, it ruined her singing voice, I don't think Grammoo thought it was insignificant. 
 Lettuce, watch out for the rust when you get lettuce. 
 Hi. 
 I'm just picking some things up for the barbecue. 
 Not at all. Lot of potatoes! 
 I'm looking forward to that. 
 HEY, OUCH, damn it!! Vada, watch what you're doing. 
 Sorry. 
 Really? 
 (picking up large can of prunes) Dad, didn't you say you needed prunes REAL bad? 
 Ahh, Vada, just put anything you want in the cart, anything at all. (to Shelly) I don't know what's gotten into her today. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS I used to like to play with my Ken and Barbie dolls, Ken was my favorite. Then one Christmas I got them a camper, and all they wanted to do was hang out in it by themselves. So I wasn't too upset when they took that wrong turn and went over a cliff. 
 Harry Harry Harry Harry Harry, I told you to use fewer briquettes and now look what you've done. You've cremated them. 
 That's what I do. Do you wanna do it?? 
 No, no no.... 
 Look if you think you know how, why don't you pre-measure the briquettes in little packages, put out a product, support me for a while! 
 Okay. 
 Are they ready yet? 
 No, sweetie, not yet. 
 When? 
 Soon honey, soon. 
 When?? 
 In a minute, look it's hot, sweetie you'll burn your nose, look out. 
 SULTENFUSS' DRIVEWAY 
 I'll second that. 
 Hey Shelly, like seafood? 
 See food! 
 Hey Shelly, who lives here? (pointing at hearse) The Addams Family? 
 What am I doing here????? What am I doing here? 
 You told everybody where you were going, I'm here for the motor home. 
 These two people do not have a good relationship. 
 Excuse me, MUTUAL ASSET, that's what the lawyer said, it's supposed to be "OUR MUTUAL ASSET", not "Shelly's recreational vehicle". Gimme the keys. 
 What? 
 (sarcastic) I'm impressed. 
 Yeah, all right... 
 Vada Sultenfuss?? Tough break. 
 (matter-of-fact) I like my name. 
 (extremely hopeful, to Danny) Are you here to take Shelly back? 
 Uhh, it's nice to meet ya. Uhh, we got burgers and hot dogs here if you'd care to join us? 
 Can't stay, I'm just here because my wife..... 
 My __EX__ wife seems to have ripped off my camper. 
 Shelly? 
 I don't think so, I got a copy of the property settlement right here. 
 Danny? 
 WHAT? 
 Okay, I know you've suffered a terrible loss, and there's really nothing anyone can do to comfort you, but I urge you to focus on the times you had with the camper, the trips you took, the sights you saw, those days are gone now, but they'll live on in your heart forever. 
 (to Shelly) This guy bonking you? 
 (to Danny) Look, you're not gonna take Shelly's camper. 
 Oh.. Oh.. Oh no?? Oh? 
 It's her home! It's where she lives!! 
 Oh really, okay fine look, go cook, (to Shelly) Gimme the goddam keys. 
 Danny..... 
 What'd you do that for?? 
 Who are you? 
 I'm his brother. 
 Oh then you'll probably be visiting us here quite often. 
 WHY?? 
 Because if he ever tries to take Shelly's camper again, I'm gonna bury him in my front yard. 
 (quiet voice, to Vada) Your father is a savage. 
 Is it really your camper? 
 You can get the general idea... 
 Yep, there they are... They always look the same every year... 
 Did you ahh, love him? 
 He must like Shelly, I never saw him hit anyone in his life. 
 He likes her. 
 Does he love her? 
 Probably. 
 Do you like her? 
 Yes I do, and I think she's very good for your father. 
 Why? 
 After your mother died, he was sad all the time, but before that, he was pretty funny. 
 Really? 
 Now when I see him with Shelly, sometimes he seems like the old Harry. 
 My Dad was funny? 
 Well he wasn't one of the Marx brothers, but he made me laugh. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS My Uncle fought in the Korean war, he had a steel plate put in his head, Daddy said he didn't come back the same, one night, he picked up a radio station from Oklahoma in his teeth, it was really neat. 
 Aaaaaaaaaahhhhh. 
 (with stick in mouth) Carnnk yu sheeee ik?? 
 Can't you see it? 
 No. 
 It's there. 
 Vada there is no chicken bone stuck in your throat. 
 Dr. Welty, are you sure those are yours? 
 So you fill it with water like this, and what have you got? A water gun. 
 J Cool, can I get one for Vada? 
 Oh yes, yes. 
 J Cause she's dying. 
 Do you think she is? 
 J No. 
 Why do you think she says that? 
 J Cause she gets scared of all those dead people in her house, and you know that saying, If you can't beat 'em, join 'em, well if she's one of them, she won't be as scared. 
 You know what I think? I think Vada's very lucky to have a friend like you. 
 J She's my best friend. 
 Miss Vada, how are you feeling? 
 As good as can be expected. 
 J Hey Vada, guess what we got? 
 What? 
 J THIS!! (squirt) 
 
!!!! (squirt) I'm gonna get you!!! (squirt) I'll get you!!!! 
 
 J Woah!! 
 What? 
 J Pointing There's a beehive right there! 
 So? 
 J Stand back. 
 Are you crazy, you'll get stung!! 
 J You're right, let's knock it down. 
 What do you want it for anyway? 
 J For their meat. 
 J Got it! 
 My mood ring! It fell off! I gotta find it! 
 J They're alive!! Run for your life!!! 
 J Run faster they're after us!! 
 I am running faster!! 
 J Hurry!!! 
 Jump in the water!! 
 J But I have my clothes on! 
 Do it! 
 (in the distance, from upstairs) Vada is that you? 
 Yes.. 
 Hey guess what? We're going to the carnival tonight, be ready to go in 10 minutes. 
 Shelly's coming with us. 
 I like the freak show. 
 I know, I know, let's go on the "sit on the bench and rest" ride. 
 Nephritis? It's a kidney disease, you don't get it from hot dogs. 
 Watch you don't knock out a fish. 
 I don't know which ball's mine. 
 I won, I won!!! 
 Hooray, we have a winner, (picks up fish in plastic bag) There you go little girl. (gives fish to Vada) See how easy it is folks! 
 Where'd you get that ring? 
 (extremely hopeful) Did you win it? 
 Vada we have some good news, Shelly and I are getting married. 
 Oh my fish!!! 
 We're having the wedding sometime near the end of the summer. 
 Not acknowledging Harry's comment You'll be okay little fish. 
 (angry) NO!, He's fine. (less angry, talking to fish) Fish are very resilient animals you know. Don't worry, I won't get another fish. 
 THE BUMPER CARS!! THE BUMPER CARS!! FOR JUST 50 CENTS A HALF DOLLAR, FIVE DIMES, 10 NICKELS, WE HAVE A RIDE THAT'S GUARANTEED TO REARRANGE ALL OF YOUR INTERNAL ORGANS. 
 I fall asleep at the wheel. 
 (malicious grin) I'll ride on the bumper cars with you! 
 NO! 
 Vada, keep your hands on the wheel!! 
 Careful Vada, careful. 
 Shelly LOOK OUT! 
 
 MRS. SENNETT Hi Vada. 
 Hi, can Thomas J come out? 
 MRS. SENNETT Sure, come in. 
 J Hi Vada. 
 Hi, wanna ride bikes? 
 J Sure. 
 MRS. SENNETT Ohh, did you make your bed? 
 J Yes. 
 MRS. SENNETT You're sure? 
 J It's made. 
 MRS. SENNETT Come here, you've got a milk mustache. 
 J Come on, let's go. 
 Bye Mrs. Sennett. 
 J Bye Ma. 
 MRS. SENNETT Have fun kids. 
 I'm running away. 
 J Where you running to? 
 California, I'm going to Hollywood to live with the Brady Bunch. 
 J I wanna live with them too. 
 No, you can't, they have enough kids, you'll have to live with the Partridge Family. 
 J Really? 
 J That's it. 
 Get up!? 
 J I'm tired of running away. Besides, we past this place two times already. We're not getting nowhere. 
 J Why are you running away? 
 My Dad gave Shelly a ring. 
 J Wow, was it a decoder ring? 
 You're such a retard, it was an engagement ring. 
 J They're getting married? 
 J So now you'll have a mother. 
 I don't like her. 
 J I do, she's real funny. 
 He likes her better than me. 
 J I'm hungry, I can't last any longer. 
 Then go home, baby. 
 J I have to anyway, my mom will be worried. 
 Leave then, some friend you are. 
 J You can come to my house for dinner? 
 No, I'm hiding out. 
 J Okay, seeya. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS In social studies we learned some people stole the Limburg baby right out of his house, I think i'll sleep with my window OPEN tonight. 
 
 OH MY GOD!!! 
 DADDY!! Daddy daddy!!!! Daddy!!??!?! 
 Daddy??!?!?! 
 Where's Daddy? 
 I'm hemorrhaging. 
 (very weak, scared voice) I don't want, I don't need your help.... 
 I'm eleven and a half. 
 My Mommy and Daddy did THAT? 
 I think it should be outlawed. 
 Oh, that's probably Thomas J, I don't wanna see him. It's not fair. Nothing happens to boys. 
 J Hi Vada, can you come out? 
 I dunno.. 
 J Please, it's real hot, maybe we can go swimming? 
 NO! 
 Grammoo, I'm going to the bathroom, i'll be right back. 
 It's quarter to three, there's no-one in the place, just you and me. 
 I'm so sorry, it's all right ma, I'm very very sorry. 
 Grabs Vada by the shoulders Now what were you thinking, huh? HUH???? It's your responsibility to watch her!! Do you have any idea how upset those people are in there???! 
 Why do you think people want to get married? 
 J Well when you get older, you just have to. 
 I'm gonna marry Mr. Bixler. 
 J You can't marry a teacher, it's against the law. 
 It is not. 
 J Yes it is, cause then he'll give you all A's and it won't be fair. 
 Not true. 
 (nervously, uncertain) Have you ever kissed anyone? 
 J Like they do on TV? 
 Uh huh. 
 J No. 
 Maybe we should, just to see what's the big deal. 
 J But, I don't know how. 
 Here, practice on your arm like this. 
 J Like this? 
 Uh huh. (they kiss their arms for a while) Okay, enough practice. 
 Close your eyes. 
 J But then I won't be able to see anything. 
 Just do it. 
 J Okay, okay. 
 Okay on the count of three. 
 One. 
 Two. 
 Two and a half. 
 Three. 
 Say something it's too quiet. 
 J Umm, Ummmmm 
 (agitated) Just, hurry. 
 J On political agents to the flag of the United States of America, 
 THOMAS J & VADA And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, individual, with liberty and justice for all. 
 You better not tell anyone. 
 J You better not either. 
 Well, let's spit on it. 
 J Okay. 
 Seeya tomorrow. 
 J Okay, seeya. (Vada starts off down the road) Vada? 
 What? 
 J Would you think of me? 
 For what? 
 J Well if you don't get to marry Mr. Bixler. 
 I guess. 
 
 J (as he finds the mood ring) Yes! 
 J (reacting to the bees) Ow, ahh, NO!, Get away!!! 
 Hi Vada. 
 Hi. 
 What are you doing. 
 Feeding my fish. 
 Is that the fish you won at the carnival? 
 Yes. 
 He's getting big. (sad pause) Vada, come here and sit down for a minute. 
 Vada, something happened to Thomas J last night, he stepped on a beehive. 
 (beginning to look worried) I told him not to tease those bees. Did he get stung? 
 Maybe I should go over and yell at him. 
 No sweetheart, you can't. 
 (looking very worried) Why not? 
 He was allergic to bees. 
 (extremely worried) He's okay isn't he? 
 (shakes head, near tears) There were just too many of 'em. 
 Dr. Welty!!!? Dr. Welty?? 
 Vada, what's wrong sweetheart? 
 I can't breathe, I'm suffocating. 
 Oh, wait relax now, let me look, let me look, come up here and we'll have a look. 
 It hurts, it hurts so bad, make it stop. 
 What Hurts Vada? 
 The bee stings! I can't breathe! 
 
 Hi, is Vada home? 
 Oh, I'm Judy, I go to school with her, I wanted to tell her I'm sorry about Thomas J. 
 Will you tell her I came by? 
 Thank you. Bye. 
 Hi Harry. 
 Ahh, Reverand Miles. 
 The Sennetts want to thank you for taking care of things so quickly. 
 IN A COFFIN 
 
 The funeral's starting. 
 I know that, but what do you want from me? 
 Yeah, and when those suppers are disrupted because there's a car crash, or there's a fire, or a little boy steps on a beehive. 
 Excuse me Harry, Shelly, the minister's about to begin. 
 Thank you Arthur. 
 We are here to honor Thomas James Sennett. He was born, May 7 1961, in Madison, Pennsylvania, and he was survived by his loving parents, Charles and Susan Sennett...... (fades as camera changes) 
 
 The family has asked me to say a few words before we proceed. No words that I could say, would begin to describe the loss and grieving, one word that keeps ringing in my ear is Why?. Why would God choose to take this little boy from us? I can't give you an answer to that question, but I can tell you that God has chosen Thomas J for some very special reason, we must find solace in knowing that Thomas J is now in Gods care. In that face, there is no sorrow such as.... 
 ....disciples began to chastise them, and Jesus said "Let the children come to me, do not hinder them, for the Kingdom of God belongs to such as these. (the minister notices Vada coming around the front of the room) He laid his hands on their heads before he left that place, let us pray in silence. 
 Wanna go tree climbing Thomas J? 
 His face hurts, and where is his glasses? He can't see without his glasses! Put his glasses on! (Harry and Shelly are rapidly approaching Vada, Shelly takes hold of her and tries to pull her away) Put on his glasses! He was gonna be an acrobat. 
 He's gone sweetheart. He's gone! 
 Get away, get away!! 
 Vada wait! Vada! Vada!! 
 MR. BIXLER Vada! I was just on my way to your house. Are you all right? I'm so sorry about Thomas J. 
 MR. BIXLER Okay, okay we don't have to talk about him, Vada, Vada we don't have to talk about him, it's okay. We won't talk about him all right? 
 (crying) Justin and Ronda say that I should tell people what I feel. 
 MR. BIXLER (nods) Come here, sit down over here. 
 Mr. Bixler, (emotional pause) I love you. 
 MR. BIXLER Oh, Vada... 
 I love you like my Dad loves Shelly. I wanna live here. 
 MR. BIXLER Pause as he takes all this in I think your Dad would miss you. 
 No he wouldn't, I can't go home. 
 I'll be ready in a second, I just can't seem to find my other earring.... 
 MR. BIXLER Suzanne, this is Vada. 
 (comes over to Vada and crouches) Vada, hi, I'm really sorry. 
 MR. BIXLER Could you just give us a minute? 
 Yeah. 
 Who's that? 
 MR. BIXLER That's Suzanne. (pause) She and I are gonna be married this Fall. 
 No.... 
 MR. BIXLER I...I was gonna bring her to class next week. I wanted to hear your poem. Oh Vada, please honey I cared for him too, Vada please! Vada, Vada sweetheart don't..... 
 Get away from me! 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS Why do you think people wanna get married? 
 THOMAS J'S VOICE When you get old, you just have to. 
 THOMAS J'S VOICE Who's that with your Dad? 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS It's my mother. 
 THOMAS J'S VOICE I'm gonna be an acrobat when I grow up. (pause) Vada, would you think of me? Well if you don't get to marry Mr. Bixler. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS Now we're blood brothers for life. 
 Shelly I'm sorry but we haven't found her yet. 
 We'll keep looking. 
 I know, I know you told us. 
 I should have told Thomas J that he was my best friend. 
 Shelly, I stole some money from your cookie jar, to pay for the writing class. 
 I'll pay it back, besides, I don't think i'll ever go to class again. 
 I will I promise. 
 Goodnight. 
 Did I kill my mother? 
 What?? 
 The bees killed Thomas J, and I killed my mother. 
 No, no. 
 No sweetie that wasn't your fault, things like that aren't anybody's fault, it just happened. 
 I found this. 
 I forgot about that picture, where did you find it? 
 In the garage. 
 Ahh, that little Chevy was your mothers favorite car. 
 What was my mama like? 
 She was pretty, and kind, she had your eyes. Oh boy did she love to laugh. Sometimes when you laugh, you sound just like her. 
 Really? 
 Uh huh. You know what your mother did when she found out she was gonna have you? She came home and painted this whole room pink. She was so sure she was gonna have a little girl. 
 Do you miss her? 
 Yes, I did, very much for a long time, and even now, I get a little sad when I think of a pretty flower or a sunset that your mother would have liked. 
 I think every time I see a climbing tree i'll think of Thomas J. 
 That's good, memories are good sweetheart. Vada, I'm sorry; I was trying to keep it from you, I just couldn't. You're a good girl, and I want you to be happy; don't be an old grump like me. (Vada puts the photo back under her pillow, Harry gets up and kisses her) Seeya in the morning. 
 Daddy, it's not so bad to be like you. 
 Mrs. Sennett, how are you doing? 
 MRS. SENNETT Some days I think i'll be okay, others, well I have to force myself even to get out of bed, I know it's crazy, but sometimes I think he's just away at summer camp. How's Vada? 
 Oh she's doing much better. Ahh she's just inside. (walks over to entrance) 
! 
 Mrs. Sennett. (she runs and gives her a hug) 
 MRS. SENNETT Vada. I've been wanting to come over to see you, (she reaches inside her purse and gets out something, it is Vada's mood ring) Thomas J had this on him, I thought you might like to have it. 
 I will, I promise. 
 Mrs. Sennett. (she stops and turns around to look at Vada) Thomas J will be all right, my mother will take care of him. 
 MRS. SENNETT Thank you Vada. 
 MR. BIXLER (reading from book) Encased in talent, like a uniform, the rank of every poet, is well known. They can amaze us like a thunderstorm, or die so young, or live for years alone. My advice to you on our last class, be a thunderstorm. 
 What exactly do you mean by that? 
 MR. BIXLER I mean, be dangerous (Vada enters the back of the room) And unpredictable. And make a lot of noise. 
 MR. BIXLER Vada. 
 Hey, we missed you man! Gimme a hug! 
 MR. BIXLER I was hoping you'd stop by today. 
 I can't stay, I just came to read my poem. 
 MR. BIXLER We'd love to hear it. 
 Weeping willow with your tears running down, Why do you always weep and frown, Is it because he left you one day, Is it because he could not stay, On your branches he would swing, Do you long for the happiness that they would bring, He found shelter in your shade, He thought his laughter would never fade, Weeping willow stop your tears, There is something to calm your fears, You think death as if you forever part, But I know he'll always be in your heart. 
 Hi Judy. 
 Hi Vada. 
 VADA'S THOUGHTS 
