 
 
 
 They say it's only going one way. 
 It looks like a great deal. 
 These are the plans,...it costs ten and it'll be worth twenty with planning. But first you gotta give the councilor a drink. 
 (off the envelope) Tell them they'll get the planning,... 
 You'll get the planning. Take care of the councilor and it will move like shit through a goose. 
 
 Lenny Cole? 
 But he moves fast and he loves bricks and mortar. 
 I do move fast and I love bricks and mortar, properties are always the safe bet, but you better know what you're doing 'cos this ain't soft money. You trip up,... (beat) And it's not me that's gonna get hurt. You got security? 
 We got property. 
 Don't let me down boys. (beat) Come on then, give us your hand. They shake hands and sign the papers. 
 
 (into phone) Can't talk now, but there has been a problem. I can't get you the planning. 
 (into phone) I'm sorry boys, can't get the planning. 
 He can't get the planing? 
 What do you mean you can't get the fuckin planning? (pointing) There is seven million of my cash in there, without planning it's worth five,...you owe me. I take the building, you lose your share, but I am still outta pocket two large ones. Find it. 
 
 Is that you Councilor? (Lenny smiles) I hear you got that car you was after,....now, sort the planning out. 
 (V.O.) Sorted Lenny. 
 What's wrong with you Arch? 
 That's a bit strong isn't it Len? They come from the same place as you, you'll clean 'em out. 
 Same place as me? Do I look like an immigrant Archy? (beat) No one gave me a leg up, did they? They need a bit of fear, 'cos otherwise they're gonna come up against me,...need a little lesson don't they? 
 And be left with what? 
 
 
 Glad you could join us here Lenny. 
 It's nice to see you Uri. 
 Good. (there is a pause) I can see we are very much alike you and I Lenny. We like to get things done. (beat) What's it going to cost me? 
 First, let me make clear how much we can help you benefit from this deal. With out me, it will take you five to ten years to get the permission to erect your arena. (beat) Second, with Government policy as it so stands we both know it's unlikely that you'd ever get that consent. (beat) Thirdly, in legal fees, transactions and building consent, you'd be paying 6 to 12 million without any real guarantee of that result. 
 
 So Lenny,..... how much? 
 
 Seven million Euros. 
 I expect a guarantee that I have consent within six months and no red tape. 
 That's right Uri, you can consider that done. 
 Drink!     Follow me. 16   INT. SPORTS ARENA - PRIVATE BAR                                 16 
 Oh, that's a nice picture Uri, hasn't it got, errrh depth? 
 That picture has brought me nothing but luck Lenny,..it's my lucky picture. (he has a good idea) You like? Take it for a while, maybe it will give you luck. 
 Oh I couldn't Uri,... 
 Now we're partners, I insist. I will get it sent around to your house and you can give it back to me when our deal is finalized. 
 
 I thought you lot drunk Vodka. 
 Whiskey is the new Vodka. 
 You not joining me Uri? 
 
 I don't drink. 
 Oh,...cheers then,... 
 To success. 
 You all right there Len?      You look a little pink. 
 (Flustered) Turbo, get us a perrier and a wet wipe live-o. 
 So, how's the billionaires club? 
 That Communism didn't seem to slow 'em down did it? We've hit the big time here Archy boy! (beat) What's wrong? Where's the old Archy smile? 
 
 You wanna watch out there. Times are changing, they don't have too much respect for the old school. 
 
 Shut up Archy,... (under his breath) No school like the old school,...I still run this town see? That's why he came to me right? Got that? 
 Yeah, got that. 
 You think you should have leant him your lucky picture? 
 It makes the peasant feel royal,... don't spoil it, we need him at the moment. I want that consent. (beat) Call the accountant and get her to clear the money. 
 Look, can we shut the door? 
 Shut the door. 
 Let's put our cards on the table. We both know you aren't going to get the full forty out of my clients. 
 This is the tax office and in the end we get what we want. 
 
 Save that speech for the tourists Charlie and let's strike a deal - take the twenty now and let it go. Otherwise, they'll move the company off shore tomorrow and you'll spend the next twenty years chasing an imaginary forty million around every republic that grows bananas. 
 I see why you married her now Bertie. 
 I told you we'd make a great team,.. You know why you get those deals? 
 BERTIE (CONT'D) Because those fat, sad, old men like it when you swear at them. They shake like cocktails and sweat like semtex when you raise that posh little voice. You my love are a rare commodity. (beat) Now come on, give your Bertie a smile. 
 I don't feel like smiling. I am a thirty two year old accountant married to a homosexual lawyer. (beat) I'm a beard without kids Bertie! I'm in a marriage of convenience that can be quite inconvenient at times. 
 Yes, she's right here. (MORE) 
 
 BERTIE (CONT'D) (he puts his hand over the receiver) It's Omovich. (mincey) Are you sure he isn't gay? 
 
 What are you talking about Fred? They got an informer, a grass, and a rat with a roach-smoking-a canary,..they've got more information than the fuckin Internet. 
 Leave him alone Fred, you're stressing him out. Dolly get him a cuppa tea. (beat) Come on deal the cards Fred. 
 All right chaps? 
 Want to be dealt in? 
 Can't stay for long, but throw us in for a quick spin. 
 
 
 What's happening? 
 The accountant, what about her? You haven't heard from her in a while, too dangerous that one. 
 Let's have a meet. 
 Is that what they call humor where you come from? ONE TWO Well, don't they call that art where you come from? 
 You're quite the entertainer aren't you Mr. One Two? And you are late, please don't be late, I have a very busy schedule. 
 
 I have some work and thought you'd be interested, its your kind of work. 
 
 There are two accountants taking out seven million Euros from a bank I know and it won't be protected. (beat) Twenty percent for me, as normal. The details are in here. 
 Yes,..I don't want this coming back to me so, if you could give them a black eye,..that might help. She see's a slight pause and look of concern from One Two. 
 STELLA (CONT'D) A black eye, nothing more. 
 (she smiles) Why thank you, you'll be able to afford your own pair in a couple of days. Good bye. 
 
 I need the dry ice Mickey, I need the dry ice. My show just doesn't work without it. 
 (hand over the receiver) If you told me yesterday you needed dry ice, I would have gotten you the driest ice the world could offer, but you didn't ask for no dry ice. You asked for two cases of Johnny Walker black label and four ladies of the pole and I got them for you didn't I? 
 MICKEY (CONT'D) Didn't I? 
 Yes you did I do confess, but Mickey, you're the manager and I am the rocker. You've got on the managers hat, now pluck something out of it. 
 My hat is deep and full of magic. I got rabbits, handkerchiefs, and ladies of the pole drinking Black Label. I got smoke machines, bubble machines, I even got love marines and still the hat goes deeper, but....there ain't no mother fuckin dry ice. 
 ROCK N ROLLER Ok, ok, come home, you've made your point. (he turns on his way out) But tomorrow, I need dry ice. 
 Have you read this? 
 What? 
 
 Johnny Story singer extraordinaire, fell off a boat, they say. Missing, assumed dead, they say. 
 What,..our Johnny? 
 How many rock stars by the name of Johnny Story do you think there are in this universe Mickey? 
 The only thing he's fallen off is his junkies spoon, he's no deader than the suit you're wearing now. He'll be gearing himself up somewhere happy as clam in a fisherman's net. Rockers like that never die, they just wither and give me pain. 
 Johnny Story singer extraordinare, fell off a boat, missing, assumed dead. 
 I don't know what to say Lenny. 
 I bet he took a lot of people with him in his hot little crack pipe. (beat) We will never mention this again, all right Arch? 
 
 
 Very good councilor, you must of had lessons as a boy. (beat) Fancy a cool down and a chat with Lenny? 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Do you know Jackie? 
 No, no, no, Archy, don't say anything. 
 Don't worry, she's a friend,..and a member. (raises his voice) Jackie,..fancy a run'a'round with the Councilor? 
 Only if he's wicked. 
 (excited and shy) What does she mean by that? 
 I think she likes you boy-o. 
 They say that times are changing Councilor, that this country isn't what it used to be, it's the new New York, they say. You being a political man must know all about that. 
 
 
 Errh, I think they are probably right, times have changed, but that shouldn't affect you Lenny. 
 They say it's all gone "international" now, out with the old guard in with the new, but I think they're wrong. (beat) Anyway, where are my manners? Look at you sweaty as a native and pink as a pelican,...and I haven't even offered you a wet one. 
 A lemonade and orange please. 
 Oh that's nice,..refreshing, that'll put you back on top boy. 
 I don't mind if I do,...that's a nice lighter. 
 Eight grand they wanted for it cheeky toads and I paid, you know why? 
 Tell me Lenny. 
 'Cos it's all about the details. 
 (awkwardly) Is our little deal in there too Lenny? 
 
 Oh I wouldn't forget that, the most important things first. 
 
 Oh Lenny, you forgot your lighter. 
 Can't be mine, it's got your name on it. 
 Don't you get bored of that? I mean, your not really going anywhere. If you wanna run, why don't you run to the shops or do something useful? 
 It's all about the zone isn't it? (MORE) 
 
 MUMBLES (CONT'D) You boys and girls like to find funny places in your head where nothing can get you, don't you? You're scared, you're running away from yourself One Two. 
 
 Yeah, it looks like a heap of shit, but it can't half go. (beat) A bit like you One Two. 
 I reckon he's trying to get fit for the lady. Nothing gets under his skin like a lady he can't have, does it? (pause) A straight going, cocky, educated, arrogant posh bird trips him right up. I reckon we should set Handsome Bob on her. That'll liven you up One Two. 
 I'm good with the posh ones, don't you worry about that. 
 He can't half run for a white fella. 
 Archy? You awake? (beat) Never mind, you are now. I had a horrible dream that the Councilor didn't come through, I don't want anything going wrong on this one, that Russian's the key to the big time. (pause) You think he's all right? (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 Where was it Len? 
 
 Let's take a wild stab in the dark shall we Bandy? Archy slap him and then send him to school 'cos I can't take any more of this. You sort it out, get that picture back and bring me a body, I am going to back to bed. 
 Bandy if you ever ask a stupid question like that again, you see Danny there? He's gonna slap you. 
 Sorry Arch, it's just,...I was trying to use initiative. 
 Danny slap him. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) With the right Danny,..properly. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) I said properly, with the back of your right hand Danny. 
 What is this a tennis match Arch? 
 Slap him! 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Like that! (MORE) 
 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) (beat) Now, if you men can master a slap like that, there's no need for your clients to hold back. They'll open up like a fountain full of words after one of those. (MORE) 
 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) No need for strong violence, no no, they're straight back to their childhood. Putty in your hands, ask Bandy,... (motioning) Look, thinks he's back at school. 
 But he never went to school. 
 Daniel, do you want a slap as well? Now, if the slap doesn't work,..Cut 'em...or pay 'em, but keep the receipts 'cos this ain't the Mafia. (beat) Now, get to work and find that painting. 
 You ready? 
 
 Don't be silly boys, do as you are told. Put the bags in the car, give him the keys and walk away smiling. 
 
 You have to lift up the nob under the gear stick. One Two struggles, then finds the gear. 
 (to accountants) Slowly and keep smiling. 
 What? 
 Why? What did he ever do to you? Come on we've got the money now let's piss off! 
 Yes? 
 
 (looking) You're an embarrassment to crime you are. 
 She's sick that bird of yours, sick. Quickly changing the subject. 
 He's there. 
 The developement has been underway for four years and will be completed within another two. The area covers twelve acres and it will become one of Londons premiere residences. 
 URI (CONT'D) Thirty two floors and six acres,....excuse me gentlemen,.. 
 URI (CONT'D) What is it? 
 
 URI (CONT'D) (in Russian) Do they know who we are? 
 (in Russian) It's not like the old country, it's cowboys and Indians out here. 
 (in Russian) We don't have time to play games,..people and business are waiting. Speak to the accountant and get some more money. (beat) And Victor, this time no problems. 
 You don't need to copy anything any more, welcome to the nouveau riche Mr. One Two. 
 Why thank you Mr. One Two. I see you didn't think much of the black eye though. 
 Until next time. 
 
 
 She's a looker ain't she One Two? 
 What, you got it all? 
 I'll come round the speeler. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Got another call, gotta go. 
 Archy, the Russian didn't come through with the money. 
 Calm down Len, the Councilor can wait. (MORE) 
 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) (beat) Some good news for you, One Two and Co came through with the scratch. 
 
 What, all of it? 
 (V.O.) Yeah, all of it. 
 (surprised) Where did they get that from then? 
 Ask no questions hear no lies. (beat) Just gotta do is find your painting now Len. 
 Just make sure you find it. (beat) I gotta another call. 
 I have all my people waiting Lenny. You can't let me down! 
 It's just a delay, that's all Councilor. Just a delay. 
 Stop here Turbo. 
 
 
 Gary. 
 Hello Arch. What brings you down here? Want some tickets? 
 I want the Tank. 
 You won't see him on the cobbles at this time of night, you know how much he likes the cold. He's at the end of the street tucked up watching a Zulu movie. 
 Hello Arch, what you doing here? 
 I need a word. 
 Well don't stand out there on the cobbles it's freezing, step into my world. (too the girl) Shavawn get us a couple of vanilla chai lattes, there's a good girl. 
 Great movie this Arch. They've had it digitally re-mastered, glorious picture and the sounds exquisite. 
 
 TANK (CONT'D) Oh I like this bit, thousands and thousands of 'em, but them red coats just don't move. That's courage that is Arch. (beat) They did have guns mind. 
 Turn it down a tad, I need to have a word. 
 Where are my manners? Sorry Arch, what do you want, tickets? I got just the show for you, a Chinese orphan with a learning disability that don't stop singing and dancing all the way through the first half. Then, up pops a Geisha girl and it all goes magical in the second; the wife will love it and you can't get tickets for love nor,... 
 I don't want tickets, I need you to find me a painting, a classic, been nicked outta of Lenny's house. And since you got more feet on the street than coppers on the beat,... (starting to make his way out) I'd like you to assist. I'll leave you a little livener. There's a large twenty to get some tongues wagging. 48   INT. SPEELER - NIGHT                                               48 
 
 
 Not again, please Fred. 
 Glass of milk for me, my love. 
 Good afternoon gentlemen. 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) Excuse me my love, any chance of a wee dram of water to oil the larynx? 
 (cough) Ok gentlemen here we go. First, my colleague Paul will be modeling the grey wolf. 
 
 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) I must apologize for my assistants handicaps. He has unusually long arms and an alarmingly small neck. (beat, the crowd is unimpressed) Now, I do agree it doesn't seem like the right time to acquire a coat of such thermal efficiency. However, I have been informed that we are looking at a very white winter. PLUS gentlemen and fine lady,.. (He winks at Dolly who has got him a very large glass of water) Christmas is always round the corner. He downs the water without it touching the sides. 
 Where did you find these two junkies? 
 All in good time gentlemen, all in good time. (beat) Paul, why don't you sit down for a while. 
 MALCOLM (V.O.) (CONT'D) (from under the table) Next, we have a very much sought after affair seen in very, very glossy magazines,.. 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) The famous, but rare black bear from the dark mountains of Siberian Calcutta. 
 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) Get an eye full of that stripe gentlemen. 
 Have a look at that, it's a six foot skunk. 
 And all of this could be yours for a staggeringly low,... 
 Come on Paul, we'll be going now. 
 
 Fred,... (pause) The speelers very quiet today, everything all right? 
 
 All right Mumbles?       One Two? 
 So where is it then? 
 Silly bastards. 
 They say there are only two days you enjoy a boat, the day you buy it and the day you sell it. 
 Well, according to my figures that sounds about right, but what can you do? (beat) Beauty is a cruel mistress. 
 I must remember that line.        Can I pour you a glass? 
 
 Not for me thank you. 
 
 You know, I like you. I like the way you...are. Always thinking about business, very professional. 
 That's what you pay me to be, isn't it? 
 Tell me about your husband. 
 My husband is a lawyer. 
 I hear he is very good at what he does, maybe we can have some work for him. 
 URI (CONT'D) Tell me, what do you do for fun? 
 URI (CONT'D) Have I offended you in some way? 
 I don't quite know where this is going and if you don't mind, I would like to keep our relationship professional. 
 You see Victor, this is what I am talking about. (in Russian) This is what I like about this country. They understand hierarchy - you do your job, I do mine and everyone gets along. (MORE) 
 
 URI (CONT'D) (back into English) Now, back to business. We have had security problems and to cut a long story short, I need another seven million Euros lost in the books. 
 
 (not happy, she's playing a good little actress) Forgive me for being immodest Mr Omovich. I am a very good accountant, but I can only cover so much of your money, it does have to be accounted for after all. It is not easy to lose seven million to the tax man. 
 But, if you are so good,.... 
 Let me think about it, there are some options I have tried to leave open. 
 Thank you. 
 You know why they call me Tank don't you Archy? 
 I should imagine it has something to do with you being a dirty great blac,... 
 Think Tank. Nothing gets past the old think Tank Arch, nothing. (pause) You got me thinking, so I fired a few questions into the right direction. Thought I'd better come see you 'cos I got some news 'bout your painting. 
 
 Right, I am going to tell you how this works. You're going in the drink and I am going to make a cup of tea. 
 What have I got to cheer up about, I am going to be locked up in an eight by ten tomorrow night. 
 
 
 (still not looking happy) It's not that I am ungrateful One Two, it's just,.... 
 Don't worry,..you wouldn't understand. 
 Would you? 
 I don't want the strippers One Two,.... (beat) I want you,.... 
 (horrified) See, I told you you wouldn't understand! 
 
 
 I only told you cos I'm going away, but I should have kept my mouth shut. 
 Hose 'em down Danny. Get those cray fish off 'em. Now, who has that painting? (beat) One name. 
 Johnny, Johnny Story. You know the singer in that group Story Time. 
 
 That didn't work did it? How can a dead man sell you a painting? 
 He's not dead, I know he's not dead because he just tried to sell us that picture and changed his mind at the last minute. He's got like an obsession with it. 
 Put 'em back Arch, before I shoot 'em. 
 Jesus! I know him, I know who he is,...we went to school with him. We're telling the truth, we're telling the,... 
 Len, could I have a word?    Private,.. it's worth it. 
 Your boy's not dead, is he? 
 (snapping) Don't you dare call him my boy. 
 Sorry, I mean your boy, the Ex's boy,...your step son. He had a set of keys to the house didn't he? 
 He won't die that cockroach. (MORE) 
 
 
 Roman and Mickey. 
 If anyone can find that smoking crack pipe, it's them. 
 Listen to me boy, listen. I never did like you and neither did your real father. You're a reject, a wrong-un, a fuckin fairy in the mirror that I inherited from your mother, but she ain't with us no more, so now it's just you and me. In one week you go back to school, the best fuckin school in the country I might add, then you'll be gone for another term. (beat) In the mean time, show me some gratitude and keep the fuckin music down. 
 
 
 Just couldn't, it's got me,...that's what art does Pete, it gets you. 
 You'd get a good few notes for that. Go on John, jog it on. 
 You wouldn't understand. 
 Why not? 
 Because,.....You,.... Are street scum Pete. 
 Leave off John, what is this shrink time? 
 Come on Pedro, share. I'm your sponsor, Doctor,...your dad if you're feeling a bit of regression coming on. (beat) But first we should have a drink in our hands. 
 My Dad made me watch Bonanza every Sunday after church. 
 
 That's got to have done some damage, all those guns and cowboys. 
 
 You think? It wasn't all bad, he sometimes made me laugh too. 
 Now we're getting somewhere. Did he interfere with you? You know, touch you inappropriate like? 
 He tickled me if that's what you mean. 
 Now that's it! That's what I was looking for, you see your Dad is a monster Pedro, a tickling monster. (singing) Pedro's dad's a tickling monster! 
 That's my drink. 
 Fuck you singalong, you're no help and stop calling me Pedro. 
 Come on boy, I'll have you and ya girlfriends! I'll do the lot of yazz. 
 
 
 He hit me bad as well the slag.        Hit with a chain. 
 (Johnny stands) What are you doing? I'm not going to tickle you Pete, I'm not your Dad. 
 I used to think it had something to do with Bonanza. 
 Your dad was jealous. Cos you dad isn't sure he's your dad, cos you don't look like him. 
 Really?     What do I look like then? 
 You have all the facial characteristics of North American native, Livapuddlian Indian. (MORE) 
 
 Really? 
 PETE (CONT'D) You slag Story! I'm not telling you fuck all,...piss taker. 
 Mickey,..Roman, there are four gentlemen who,... 
 
 Who wanna see you two. 
 I'm sorry Mickey. 
 Don't worry about it June, go and have another lunch. 
 Sorry to intrude. (seeing some fruit on the table) They call this a lichee don't they? 
 I believe so. 
 Tasty exotic, bit like your suit. 
 How can we help? 
 Don't you have an act called Story Time? 
 We did. 
 And isn't there a lead singer called Johnny Story? 
 There was. 
 Well, I would like to see Mr Johnny Story. 
 I would like to see him too, but that might be tricky 'cos according to the newspapers the only songs Mr Story is going to be singing is hymns. 
 
 And I shed a tear. I shed it for all those bone tops that read the papers and believe that shit. (beat) Have you seen his body? Have you seen him smacked up and cracked up with his tongue on his chin and his cock in his hand, swinging from the rafters, like a real rock 'n' rolla? (pause) No, you didn't did you? And nobody else fuckin did either, did they 'cos he ain't dead. He's alive-alive- o somewhere selling cockles and mussels,...and a very important painting that doesn't belong to him. 
 Sorry, but what has this got to do with us? 
 You have twelve licenses within a jurisdiction which I control. You wanna play on, do what I tell you. (pause) Now, I can tell what you're thinking. 
 That there's not much you can't do? 
 Slow down tinker bell, you'll never sing the same if ya teeth aren't your own. 
 You gonna take care of him? 
 (smiling) What do you think we are, gangsters? That's not my style and especially not with genetics and all,... 
 
 Where have you been? You were missed in court today. That's not very compassionate is it, didn't turn up for your amigos funeral. 
 Guess whoooo? 
 
 
 (V.O.) I can get any number, I work with numbers don't I? 
 I need a favor. My husbands having a party tonight and they need some "smarties" but they have nowhere to go. Look, I know it's a liberty, but I thought you might know people. Plus, I have another bit of work for you. (beat) You can bring your friends. There will be interesting people - the rich and famous, the great and good. 
 
 You're looking well Lenny. 
 
 Well thank you Uri, that's a real compliment from a man that obviously takes good care of himself. 
 I suppose you're wondering why you are here? 
 I assume you want to check that everything is still "kosher" at my end. (pause) I was a little surprised you didn't come through at the appropriate time, but I reckon you have your reasons. Silence. 
 I assume everything is still as you say,...Kosher? 
 Don't you worry Uri, that one's on me,...partners and all that, but I wouldn't like it to go south again, makes things difficult, if you know what I mean? 
 I understand Lenny and I wouldn't like things to go wrong either. Which brings me conveniently to my next point. Ever since the painting, my lucky painting, hasn't been hanging on my wall, things have not been,....so lucky. I know this is a rude request because we have not concluded our business, but I feel as though I need it. 
 
 Fuckin hell Len, he's given you that bar tan again. You wanna leave that vodka alone. 
 
 Shut up Arch! 
 Everything all right? 
 No it's fuckin not all right, he want's his painting, his lucky painting. 
 Oh, I see. That's a bit of a problem then isn't it? 
 You should have seen his eyes I swore they changed color, went fuckin red they did. 
 They don't care who's soil they are on that lot. They can buy half the country without breaking a sweat, you're small time to them. They could click their fingers and we'd be ether. 
 You speak to me like that again and I'll cut your fuckin tongue out. I run this town, got that, me! Anybody who thinks he's rude enough, let 'em raise a finger, 'cos I'll take off his whole fuckin arm. Do you understand that Archy? (beat) I said do YOU? 
 Yes, I do Len. 
 
 How about that then, Johnny Story's father? How did that get under the radar? Why doesn't anybody know? 
 
 Would you want anyone to know that he was your Dad? Would we have taken him on if we had known? 
 We're going to have to give him something, anything, a bed that's been slept in, a bone for his dog, some token of effort. 
 We need to see Cookie. 
 (A bit rude) Who are you? 
 My name is Cookie. 
 You must be with Stella? 
 No, we're with the Grand Old Duke of York. 
 Well you can't come in here, not without shaking my hand. 
 TOM (CONT'D) So you're supposed to be a hard case eh? 
 (to One Two) This is gonna be a scream, Fred get 'em in. 
 
 'Cos you look like one of them. 
 
 And take that chewing gum off your feet before you start dancing. 
 
 Good evening gentlemen. 
 STELLA (CONT'D) Help yourselves to drinks. 
 (searching for street cred) So! Who the man? 
 Come on then kids, get in a nice orderly line and we'll get the party started. 
 Well all the chaps were coming and I didn't have any plans tonight did I? Thought I might celebrate a little, do you mind? 
 
 
 And that's why they call him One Two. 
 So you're part of the wild bunch? Stella says you're dangerous. 
 Does she now? 
 So is your friend part of the wild bunch? 
 That young man is the greatest gun slinger in town. 
 (Bertie smiles) Then how come I don't know him? (beat) I know all about your type. 
 How is that then? 
 I'm a criminal lawyer,..and I know a secret about your part of town. 
 What secrets that then? 
 You have an informer in your neck of the woods. 
 Oh yeah, so what's his name? 
 You have to pay for secrets. (CONTINUED) 
 
 That's not nice, but while your at it, what's the price? 
 (he looks to Handsome) I want to meet the gun slinger. 
 Drink? ONE TWO Large one,...Dance? 
 So, you're a dancer? 
 Sure, I like to dance. 
 
 The same job's back on again. 
 Same time, same place, same money. 
 Same as before, but they're not my accountants. A couple of their's,..other than that, should be just the same. 
 Handsome, I got a job for you.    See that man on the couch. 
 The one that's staring at us?    How can I miss him. 
 Do me a favor, chat him up. 
 Fuck off what do think I am? 
 He's some big wig lawyer who knows about an informer in our part of town and since you were just looking at a five stretch, I thought you might be interested. 
 
 It's all go around here isn't it? Den of iniquity this place is. You know your old lady, well her big time lawyer husband he's a beard got a crush on the Handsome. 
 Put it this way, I don't think they married for love. 
 So, I hear you have a secret, but you look like you might have more than one. Why don't you confess? 
 I don't want to talk about work. 
 If you tell me who the informer is, we will talk about whatever you want to, anyway, you don't have to tell me anything. If he's an informer you'll have his depositions and poems. 
 My, my not just a pretty face. How do you know about those sort of things? 
 Let's have a drink during the week, and I'll tell you all about it, all I need is a little bit of paper work. 
 
 Oi One Two, I am going to make a killing out of this lot, they've definitely got more money than brains. (to One Two) I owe you one boyo. 
 Pedro?   Come back here. 
 (he's flapping) You never said it was your Dad's or whatever you wanna call him. You gotta give it back John people are looking for it, bad people. The streets are alive with the sound of pain. 
 You may have a point Pete, but I can't give it up. You know why? 
 No, why? 
 Meet me in the pub in two minutes. 
 What do you want? 
 
 Now, now no need for that tone bar steward. I am merely on mission to acquire a shot of your finest Scotch and a packet of your,... (pointing to paper's) Cheapest rolling paper. 
 Green or red? 
 King size of course - along with a packet of your shiniest coffin nails. 
 Don't make a scene in here boy. 
 Put the change in the blind box my good man and remember,... 
 Yeah. 
 
 All you need to know about life is retained within those four walls. 
 
 (in mock awe) Oh you are something special Johnny Story. 
 
 We'll use rock salt in the shot gun cartridges. Slip 'em into the revolver, if it starts getting large, we'll bang a couple in to 'em and that'll slow 'em down. They won't know the difference between lead or salt and of course Bob's driving. 
 What? He's our driver, the A-teams not complete without the driver. (beat) What's happened between you and Bob? 
 What's that then?       That he's a poof? 
 Everybody knows he's a flamer, you're the only one who doesn't. He loves the boys. 
 Did he make a pass at you, is this what this is all about? 
 Ok so what's the problem? It was supposed to be his last night so you "took care" of him, that's what friends do for one another, well done, I won't tell the chaps. 
 
 What did you do?        Suck his,... 
 Well, you must have touched him. 
 Did you give him one? 
 Was it a slow dance? 
 I think there's something else you should know about our Bob. 
 Who do you think looked after your Mum before she died, whilst you were doing a two stretch? (MORE) 
 
 MUMBLES (CONT'D) (beat) 'Cos it wasn't fuckin me and I am your best pal! (MORE) 
 
 MUMBLES (CONT'D) No, it was Bob around there six times a week without fail making sure she was looked after. You tore your mums heart out when you went away and Bob did his best to put it back. (pause) I tell you something One Two, if I could be half the human that Bob is and the price was being a poof, I'd think about it. (beat) Not for too long, but I'd have to think about it. 
 'Cos that's Handsome Bob and he's class. 
 THRU                                                                   THRU 72E                                                                    72E 
 THRU                                                                   THRU 72J                                                                    72J 
 
 Oi you, what do you think you're doing? 
 What do you think we're doing?   We're trying to get in. 
 Go home wasters, costs money to get in here. 
 Yes my good man, I am aware of that. 
 What's wrong with you? 
 Get that Archy on the phone, I think we've got a problem. 
 Run along junkies. 
 Oi looky, but no touchy. 
 Get off him you slag, he's class. 
 
 Mr. Archy,.... (beat) I hear you, but you can't just shut us down! I've got an act on. 
 (calm, but worried) Leave it John, I'm happy, I'm all right down here mate. Let's call it a night eh? 
 I'll show em' fuckin happy. 
 I understand, we'll find him,.. (still pleading) But I have to keep the club open!   I have four hundred people in here! (beat) Don't you dare shut us down! 
 Fancy some more talent boy? 
 
 
 I am going to report you, what's your name? 
 Jog on boy, before I grind your bones to make my bread. 
 Oh I'm sorry did that hurt?   Here let me help you up. 
 (to Roman) They're trying to shut us down! 
 What was that about grinding bones? 
 If we want to keep the licence and the lights on, we need to find Johnny Story. 
 There is a revolution taking place outside. 
 
 
 Joke to be inserted by Cookie. 
 COOKIE (CONT'D) Hello, it's Roman and Mickey, what are you doing here boys? 
 Can we have a word Cookie? 
 We need to find Johnny Story. 
 Well, you should be the first to know this, but isn't he,... 
 You know and I know nothing kills Johnny. (beat) Come on Cookie, you've helped him fuck up his life for the last five years, now do him a good turn. 
 Have you ever bought a ticket to the junkies bone yard Roman? (beat) It's an unpleasant place called "curl up and die." Might sound like a hair salon, but it don't fuckin look like one I can tell ya. It's a horrible sight and a terrible sound listening to a man sucking his soul through the hole in "the pipe" and even worse when he tries to tear it back. (beat) I've been there, I've done that,... then I nailed that demon in a smoke proof coffin and I did it all with Johnny. I love that man, he's what you call class..and if you would use your heads, you would love him too. You know his music sales have gone up a thousand percent in two weeks. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 
 COOKIE (CONT'D) (beat) You see, Johnny "the crack head" Story knows that a "Rocka" is worth more dead than alive, silly world ain't it? (beat) Mr Story doesn't get his gear from me, he has to travel far and wide. Leave me your number and if the dead feels like calling, you'll be the first to know. 
 
 1 Victor is Uri's right hand man, we served together for four years in Chechnya. We used to have a good time together, he's a real soldier, strong, hard, we made much trouble. I saved his life and he saved mine many times,... 
 CHECHNYAN 1 (CONT'D) Caught in tank tracks!      He pulled me out and this one,... 
 CHECHNYAN 1 (CONT'D) Stem grenade. 
 2 I have one of those,... 
 CHECHNYAN 2 (CONT'D) How many of these have you got? 
 
 THRU                                                                 THRU 92C                                                                  92C 
 1 Six thirty calibe,.... 
 
 There's another case, grab it. 
. 
 
 Let's go, we've got it. 
 
 Let's get going. 
 
 Grab my hand, we're getting out of here. 
 I've got 'em. 
 I can't fuckin shoot him, you do it. 
 (who has come back to life) I got the cases, now let go. 
 
 
 MUMBLES (CONT'D) Now One Two, now! 
 Down. 
 
 
 Get on! 
 I will have that painting   with you in a couple of days Uri.    It got locked up with some other   goods of mine, I wanted to keep it   safe, but Archy lost the key to the   lock. Didn't you Arch? 
 
 
 (in Russian) I need to speak to you Uri. 
 Something wrong with these immigrants Arch, I don't fuckin trust 'em. We're being set up, don't know how, but something's wrong, I can smell it with my sniffer. I thought he was made of fuckin money, not too happy about flashing it around here though is he? 
 He is the only one that knows. 
 He doesn't have the balls or the brains. 
 He's a crook, a small time back handing crook. Once could be a coincidence, but twice and the painting - your "lucky painting" I think he is trying to make a fool out of you. 
 Oh my God, are you all right? 
 
 
 I know what happened, it's been all over the news, but I didn't realize,... 
 I am sorry I didn't know, but shouldn't you have taken precautions? 
 Is that you Bertie? (CONTINUED) 
 
 (V.O.) What's happening about that drink? 
 What's happening about that paper work? 
 (V.O.) I am busy tonight, but Monday looks good. I'll leave the papers at my reception under your name and text you the address. 
 I'll be round in a jiffy and I'll see you Monday. The phone goes down, One Two narrows his eyes. 
 Do you miss it? 
 Arch I don't care if he's fuckin busy, if we call, he answers, that's the deal. There he is,.. (shouting) Councilor,..Councilor! 
 
 What are you doing here Lenny?    You can't come here. 
 Steady, Councilor steady,...I go wherever I fuckin want. This is my town, not yours no matter what you and your pen pushing immigrant boy scouts might think. (pause) Now, what's going on? 
 (hurriedly) Step in here. 
 I can't do it, you've left it too long Lenny. You want something that the city has a ruling against, something they said they wouldn't give permission to build. 
 Don't give me that shit. I can look out my window and there's twenty kinds of buildings this city said they'd never build, how did that happen eh? Fuckin termites got together and had a house building party did they? No sunshine, back handers put them up, back handers just like mine. 
 This isn't fuckin Zaire Lenny, I can't do it this time. 
 COUNCILOR (CONT'D) Get off my bollocks Lenny. 
 
 Don't you swear at me you yellow puddle of immigrants piss or I'll fuckin drown you in it. (MORE) 
 
 Moron,...what do you think your doing? 
 What John? 
 Letting creatures in my yard without my consent. 
 They're good stuff John, Scotch and Scouse. 
 Like the drink and the Beatles. I am Malcolm and this is my friend and colleague Paul, you know like the saint. 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) Paul doesn't say much, he's too busy thinking. (beat) Come on, we know you John, we're big fans, you're what they call a real rocknrolla. 
 Out!! Good-bye, on your way, bon voyage and fuck off. 
 
 
 JOHNNY (CONT'D) What is this a laydown?     A fuckin demo? 
 Leave us be Johnny, we're nice people. Peaceful people. This is a demonstration of peace. 
 Where the fuck did you find these two junkies? Conference, now Pete. 
 Pedro I swear this is the last time I'm having you take the piss, next time you're on your own. 
 Sorry, I thought you might like some company. 
 I am dead Pete, what does that tell you? It tells you, that dead people don't like company! Now jog 'em on. 
 All right, I'll tell 'em to leave. 
 Yes you fucking well will, smelly junkies. Meeting adjourned. Johnny and Pete walk out of the toilet, Malcolm and Paul are gone. 
 You've scared 'em off sing-a-long, but with a welcome like that it's not all that shocking. 
 Lucky you're not following them. 
 
 
 Paul, please exhibit to the audience the fine artifact. 
 MALCOLM (CONT'D) Now, now young Paul rest your weary legs. (beat. here comes the pitch) Gentlemen,...we are entering the realm of the ancient art form of paint on canvas,... 
 I'll have it, how much? 
 (stunned) One moment sir, there's a pitch that comes with this painting,.... 
 I don't want the pitch, I said I'll have it. 
 It's a very rare and expensive painting sir. 
 Here ya go, have a week in snow. 
 Good afternoon gentlemen, it's been a pleasure. I can hardly wait till the next time. 
 
 
 I'll have that painting in a couple of days Uri, trust me on that. 
 You like it out here Lenny? 
 Can't beat the great outdoors can you Uri? I can't understand it, not a soul out here. 
 That's because I have had the course cleared for us Lenny, we are not going to be disturbed. 
 Oh that's good, I love a clear fair way, that's a bitta me that Uri. Nothing worse than being jogged on by blind tourists swinging a stick on a Sunday. 
 What are we going to do Lenny? Every time I am about to make my payment something dishonest happens. (pause) You, wouldn't know anything about that, would you? 
 Excuse me? Are you trying to say something Uri? 
 I am not trying Lenny, I am saying something. 
 I think you forget who you are speaking to you insolent bastard. You forget where you are you fuckin immigrant. This is my land, my fuckin show, I run this tow,.... 
 
 
 I have to go now Lenny, I am having lunch with the Councilor, your Councilor. This, as you know, is the ninth hole and it is a long crawl back to your car. You should make it by sunrise, just in time to bring me my "lucky picture." I want it back do you hear me? 
 Yes,..yes. 
 After that, I don't want to hear from you again, disappear do you understand me Lenny? (Victor stands on his broken legs arrrrgh) Lenny? 
 Yes, yes, I understand. 
 Times just change. (Uri gets in the buggy) Good bye Lenny. 
 
 
 We've found out about that informer. Your lady "the beard," her old man came through. 
 It's here in my hands, THE informer, the one responsible for all the sentences we have been seeing - all of 'em, including me. 
 Who's Sidney Shaw? 
 Don't try and move it'll be too painful before tonight. 
 
 Give me the water, Aaaaaahhhhh,.. 
 I told you not to move. 
 
 Broke my legs in four places Archy, did you hear that? The bastard's made me limp for the rest of my days. 
 What do you want me to do? 
 I need that picture Archy, I need it bad. 
 I'll get it, don't you worry and I think I can do better than that. This catches his attention. 
 What? 
 Someone has been at the Russian's money, a couple of silly gun slingers,..he wasn't making up stories. 
 What? 
 You know 'em and you don't like 'em either. 
 I ain't playing fuckin games here Arch look at me, who? 
 Mumbles, Bob and One Two. 
 I have to go now. 
 
 
 (she smiles) I'll take you up on that. 
 You have very good taste,...Mr One Two. 
 STELLA (CONT'D) Good bye. 
 So why did you call Johnny? 
 Sorry, Johnny's not home right now, but the pipe is and the pipe says that Johnny heard you were getting in trouble boys. 
 
 Look, whoever I am talking to please relay the message to Johnny. His Dad, his jack in the box surprise gangster Daddy, paid us a visit. Shut down a few of our venues and he intends to shut down a few more unless Mr Story puts in an appearance. 
 Why are you talking to a pipe Roman? You're madder than I am. 
 Come back Johnny, come back home. 
 But home is where your head is and I don't feel at home in my head. (beat) Come back Johnny! 
 
 
 Uri is a man born with nothing, carved his way up the hard way, he's smart, young and only one thing will stop him from reaching his goals,...women. And this woman has become a problem. (pause) My job is to protect Uri and in this department he needs protecting, I don't like her or trust her and I want you to follow that snake. 
 1 Leave it with me Victor. 
 
 
 Is this a bad time One Two? 
 Shall we come back later? 
 (V.O.) One Two, it's us. 
 (V.O.) Bring 'em to the warehouse and don't hurt 'em until I've spoken to 'em, all right? 
 All right Lenny, I got a call waiting here, I'll see ya at the show. (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Hello? 
 Archy? 
 Hello Archy. 
 Johnny, you do look the part. 
 Show us your guns Uncle Arch, I told the boys all about it. 
 Shut up and get in the car. 
 Give us your money boys. Archy grabs the gun and hits Johnny on the back of the head, not too hard. 
 You little swine,... now get in the car. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Be good boys, you never know who's watching. 
 
 
 You wanna take the stairs or the elevator Mr Cole? 
 Come here Bandy. 
 No,....Mr Cole. 
 Think before you drink and before you drive me mad Bandy. 
 Don't worry boys, nothing to be nervous about, some of my Dad's best friends ended up here. 
 Still full of hot air Johnny. 
 
 
 You're looking a bit down, has that old clown been working you long hours? (beat) You always were loyal - no dog like a loyal dog. 
 Watch your mouth John. 
 (feigning fear) Don't hit me Archy, I'm a singer not a fighter. (back to normal) I've just the remedy for you, a story, a Johnny Story and it's all about you. Archy presses a button to call the elevator.       They wait. 
 I don't want to hear it. 
 Sorry, that's right get into character. (beat) Look at him boys, scary ain't he? 
 So who we got in there? Anyone I know? Anyone famous? That's right it's only a job, isn't it? Just being loyal, just following orders. (MORE) 
 
 
 Shut it, otherwise you will get hurt. 
 That, Roman and Mickey, is the famous Archy slap. I have been magically transported straight back to my childhood. 
 (shouting) Shut it, you hear me or I'll do ya myself, you poisonous little fucker! 
 (feigning fear) Don't hurt me Arch, I'm only little. 
 
 Put him down Arch, he's only little. 
 DANNY (CONT'D) You all right?     You look a little green. 
 (back to business) Fine, roll out the carpets. 
 Sidney!   Nice wheels. 
 Tell me, what are you boy if you are not poison? Look what you've left behind you. Your Dad couldn't even bear the sight ya, no wonder he fucked off and left me to pick up the pieces, but that wasn't enough for you was it? No, had to drive your mum into a bottle of pills and house full of nutters. All she got then was a hot bath a ice cold razor, why? (beat) Cos your poison Johnny, that's why. (CONTINUED) 
 
 What can I say,... (pause) I'm a junkie, crack head, no gooder, should never have wasted your money on that school. 
 Archy get him out of here. 
 I've had enough of him, I don't trust myself. (beat) Use someone else. 
 It's a gathering, I love a gathering look, Mumbles, One Two, Handsome Bob all the old faces today. (beat) It's all going so well apart from Archy who's ruining the day. I tried to cheer him up with that story about how you grassed him u,... 
 Whooooa,... 
 All right calm down, give me that, I'll take care of him. 
 That wasn't one of your better shots was it now Daddy. If you want to shut me up it should have been a bit higher. 
 
 (quietly) Danny come here, I want him taken care of, you hear? Now get him out. 
 
 The address is in my top pocket. Here, Archy,...you know I wouldn't mess you around. 
 Let me have a look first. 
 Here you can't read it without your glasses, let me have a look. 
 What does it say?      Hurry,... 
 Don't worry just yet fellas, nothing's going to happen while we're standing in the elevator because they don't (MORE) 
 
 
 (V.O.) Danny boy is going to turn around and "pop me" two in the head and one in throat just to make sure. (beat) And then, since Danny is obviously going to kill you two as well,... 
 You wanna know what this says Len? (beat) Funny thing with the law, it can be quite flexible. Every time an informer finds himself in front of a judge,... 
 A secret letter stands witness as to the cooperation and efficiency of that informer. 
 An accurate record of his treachery will be brought in to protect the informer,... 
 
 If the informer has provided adequate information, that dog of dogs will be magically released,... 
 
 A sort of, "get out of jail free" card, but this comes along with the trail of a good alibi. 
 The only evidence that will ever remain of this deal is that form of a very exclusive and hard to come by legal document called a "secret debt"... 
 As in deputation,... (beat) The likes of which I hold for the very first time in my hand. (beat) Of course they use a false name and I have seen that name many times in the last twenty years, always did wonder who Sidney Shaw was,... 
 Who's this Sidney Shaw Len? 
 (bothered) Give us that here. 
 
 
 No, I am being set up. 
 You're a dirty bastard Sidney, a very dirty bastard. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) (to One Two, Handsome Bob and Mumbles) You three, cut yourself free and get out of here,... 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) Michael Finny, ten years. Frazier Nash, fifteen years. Cousin Ronnie, six years,..you dirty bastard. (beat) Michael Dexter, eight years. 
 ARCHY (CONT'D) The Jew twins, fourteen years and of course ME, Archy, four years. 
 Shouldn't have brought me here fellas, you're just going to end up as witnesses. (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 After they have "dealt" with us, they're gonna put all three of us in the trunk of a stolen car,... 
 And pour six gallons of petrol on top, I can let your imagination fill in the rest. 
 But now Danny's rattled, he won't be able to wait because you now know what's coming, so he's gonna fire. 
 Mickey, pass me the gun. 
 
 
 Get fucking down! 
 I don't like it Uri, I don't trust her. I put two of my people on her and they haven't come back. 
 You what? I did not tell you to do this. If I had wanted her spied on I would have asked for it, wouldn't I? 
 Yes Uri, you would have, but I still don't like it. 
 I don't care what you like Victor, I am in charge, now wait here. 
 Can I come in? 
 
 Sorry to surprise you, but I have something for you, a token of my appreciation. 
 
 What is this for? 
 Please do not be insulted, you have come to mean a lot to me and I value you much more than just your services. (pause) This is simply a reflection of my appreciation. (vulnerable he likes her) I would like to ask you something personal. 
 URI (CONT'D) Not now Victor, I am busy. 
 URI (CONT'D) A very nice painting. How long have you had it? 
 Years, it's my lucky painting,... it's very special isn't it? 
 Beauty is a cruel mistress, is it not? 
 URI (CONT'D) 
