 
 P.A. Flight 784 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at inmate number 66578, Greely. 
 PRISON P.A. SYSTEM --number 5429, Garcia -- number 87645, Cole... 
 Ssssst!  Jose, what's going on? 
 "Volunteers" again. 
 "Volunteer duty". 
 I didn't volunteer. 
 You causing trouble again? 
 (controls his temper) No trouble. 
 Thank you.  You two wait outside. 
 He's got a history, Doctor.  Violence. 
 Anti-social six -- doing 25 to life. 
 I don't think he's going to hurt us.  You're not going to hurt us, are you Mr. Cole? 
 No, sir. 
 Why don't you sit down, Mr. Cole. 
 We want you to tell us about last night. 
 I went to the surface and I collected specimens like I was told. 
 (worried) I mashed the spider, didn't I? 
 We'll get to the spider later, Mr. Cole.  Right now, we want to know everything that you saw. 
 Where you collected sample #4, what street was that? 
 Uh... 
 It's important to observe everything. 
 I think it was...I'm sure it was 2nd Street. 
 MR. PONYTAIL 
! 
 Just exactly why did you volunteer? 
 Wake up, Cole. 
 Uh, I didn't hear the... 
 (tapping a pencil on the table) I asked you, why did you volunteer? 
 Well, the guard woke me up.  He told me I volunteered. 
 We appreciate you volunteering.  You're a very good observer, Cole. 
 Uh, thank you. 
 You'll get a reduction in sentence. 
 To be determined by the proper authorities. 
 You don't want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, Cole?  Have it taken away? 
 No, sir! 
 We have a very advanced program, something very different, requires very skilled people. 
 An opportunity to reduce your sentence considerably... 
 And possibly play an important role in returning the human race to the surface of the earth. 
 We want tough minded people.  Strong mentally.  We've had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types. 
 For a man in your position...an opportunity. 
 Not to volunteer could be a real mistake. 
 (tapping his pencil again) Definitely a mistake! 
 Still among the myriad microwaves, the infra-red messages, the gigabytes of ones and zeroes, we find words, infinitesimally small, byte-sized now, tinier even than science lurking in some vague electricity where, if we listen we can hear the solitary voice of that poet telling us, "We are no other than a moving row Of Magic shadow-shapes that come and go Round with the Sun-illumined Lantern hold In Midnight by the Master of the show." 
 "Yesterday This Day's Madness did prepare; Tomorrow's Silence, Triumph or Despair: Drink!  for you know not whence you came, nor why: Drink!  for you know not why you go, nor where." 
 -- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff.  All they got was his name.  They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring him... 
 Negative for drugs.  But he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs.  No drugs.  You believe that? 
 Were you listening?  We got two officers in the hospital.  Yeah, he's in restraints, plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse.  Look at him!  Still on his feet. 
 You want to go in?  Examine him? 
 (unlocking the door) James Cole.  That's everything we got.  None of the James Coles on the computer match him. No license, no prints, no warrants.  Nothing. You want me to go in with you? 
 I'll be right here...just in case. 
 I need to go now. 
 "James"!  Nobody ever calls me that. 
 No, not possible.  Listen, I have to get out of here.  I'm supposed to be getting information. 
 It won't help you.  You can't do anything about it.  You can't change anything. 
 I need to go. 
 Because I'm a good observer.  Because I have a tough mind. 
 They wanted identification.  I don't have any identification.  I wasn't trying to hurt them. 
 No. 
 You wouldn't understand. 
 I have to go. 
 Underground. 
 I love this air.  This is wonderful air. 
 It's so clean.  No germs. 
 I have to go. 
 This is April, right? 
 (sudden panic) July?! 
 What year is it? 
 1995? 
 (slightly confused) No, 1995 is the past. 
 Where are you taking me? 
 #1 South of France, buddy.  Fancy hotel. You're gonna love it. 
 South of France?!  I don't want to go to the South of France.  I want to make a telephone call. 
 #2 Zip it, scumbag -- you fooled the shrink with your act, but you don't fool us. 
 Lemme see your head, Jimbo, see if you got any creepy crawlies. 
 I need to make a telephone call. 
 (pulling Cole's head) Gotta work that out with a doctor, Jimbo. Can't make no calls 'til the doctor says. 
 It's very important. 
 What chew gotta do, Jimbo, is take it easy, relax into things.  We all gonna get along fine if you just relax. 
 Jeffrey.  Yo!  Jeffrey.  This here is James. Whyncha show James around?  Tell him the TV rules, show him the games an' stuff, okay? 
 (with a sly look) How much you gonna pay me?  Huh?  I'd be doing your job. 
 Five thousand dollars, my man.  That enough?  I'll wire it to your account as usual, okay? 
 Okay, Billings.  Five thousand.  That's enough.  Five thousand dollars.  I'll give him the Deluxe Mental Hospital Tour. 
 Kid around, kid around.  It makes them feel good, we're all pals.  We're prisoners, they're the guards, but it's all in good fun, you see? 
 Here's the games.  Games vegitize you. If you play the games, you're voluntarily taking a tranquilizer. 
 What'd they give you?  Thorazine?  How much?  Learn your drugs -- know your doses. 
 I need to make a telephone call. 
 A telephone call?  That's communication with the outside world!  Doctor's discretion.  Hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread.  Insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them!  Whackos everywhere!  A plague of madness. (suddenly sly and confidential) In fact, very few of us here are actually mentally ill.  I'm not saying you're not mentally ill, for all I know you're crazy as a loon.  But that's not why you're here.  Why you're here is because of the system, because of the economy. (indicating the TV) There's the TV.  It's all right there. Commercials.  We are not productive anymore, they don't need us to make things anymore, it's all automated.  What are we for then?  We're consumers.  Okay, buy a lot of stuff, you're a good citizen. But if you don't buy a lot of stuff, you know what?  You're mentally ill! That's a fact!  If you don't buy things...toilet paper, new cars, computerized blenders, electrically operated sexual devices... (getting hysterical) SCREWDRIVERS WITH MINIATURE BUILT-IN RADAR DEVICES, STEREO SYSTEMS WITH BRAIN IMPLANTED HEADPHONES, VOICE- ACTIVATED COMPUTERS, AND... 
 Take it easy, Jeffrey.  Be calm. 
 So if you want to watch a particular program, say "All My Children" or something, you go to the Charge Nurse and tell her what day and time the show you want to see is on.  But you have to tell her before the show is scheduled to be on.  There was this one guy who was always requesting shows that had already played.  He couldn't quite grasp the idea that the Charge Nurse couldn't just make it be yesterday for him, turn back time ha ha.  What a fruitcake!! 
 Seriously, more and more people are being defined now as mentally ill.  Why? Because they're not consuming on their own.  But as patients, they becone consumers of mental health care.  And this gives the so-called sane people work! (hysteria again) WHOOO!  SHOCK THERAPY!  GROUP THERAPY! HALLUCINATIONS!  THERAPEUTIC DRUGS! IGGIDY DIGGIDY DIG!  PERFECT!  THE SYSTEM IN HARMONY LIKE A BIG MACHINE... 
 Okay, that's it, Jeffrey, you're gonna get a shot.  I warned you... 
 (calming himself, smiling) Right!  Right!  Carried away, heh heh. I got "carried away".  Explaining the workings of...the institution. 
 I don't really come from outer space. 
 This is TJ Washington, Jim -- he doesn't really come from outer space. 
 Don't mock me, my friend. (to Cole) It's a condition of "mental divergence". I find myself on another planet, Ogo, part of an intellectual elite, preparing to subjugate barbarian hordes on Pluto. But even though it's a totally convincing reality in every way...I can feel, breathe, hear...nevertheless, Ogo is actually a construct of my psyche.  I am mentally divergent in that I am escaping certain unnamed realities that plague my life here.  When I stop going there, I will be well.  Are you also divergent, friend? 
 Staff!  Whoo!  Time for Staff.  Now the geniuses cure you.  Hallelujah! 
 This is a place for crazy people!  I'm not crazy! 
 #1 We don't use that term..."crazy", Mr. Cole. 
 Well, you've got some real nuts in here! Listen to me, all of you -- I have to tell you something that's going to be difficult for you to understand, but... 
 DR. RAILLY James...please.  These are all doctors here and we want to help you. 
 DR. FLETCHER Mr. Cole -- last night you told Dr. Railly you thought it was... (checking a file) 1995. ... How about right now?  Do you know what year it is right now? 
 1989.  Look, I'm not confused.  There's been a mistake, I've been sent to the wrong place. 
 Hey, I'm not going to hurt anybody. 
 (drawing) Do any of you know anything about the Army of the Twelve Monkeys?  They paint this, stencil it, on buildings, all over the place. 
 DR. CASEY Mr. Cole... 
 Right.  I guess you wouldn't, this is 1989, they're probably not active yet. That makes sense!  Okay.  Listen to me, three billion people died in 1995. Three billion, got that?  Almost the whole population.  Of the world! Only about one percent survived. 
 #2 Are you going to save us, Mr. Cole? 
 Save you?  How can I save you?  It already happened!  I can't save you.  I'm simply trying to get some information for people in the present so that someday... (sees their eyes) You don't believe me.  You think I'm crazy.  But I'm not crazy.  I'm a convict, sure, I have a quick temper, but I'm as sane as anyone in this room.  I... 
 DR. RAILLY Can you tell us the name of the prison you've come from? 
 DR. FLETCHER Does this bother you, Mr. Cole? 
 (recovering, new tack) No!  Look, I don't belong here!  What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out. 
 DR. FLETCHER Who would you call, Mr. Cole, who would straighten everything out? 
 Scientists.  I'm supposed to report in to them.  They'll want to know they sent me to the wrong time. 
 DR. FLETCHER So you could talk to these scientists and they do what?  Send you to the future? 
 No, no.  I can't talk to them.  It's called, "voice mail".  I'm supposed to leave messages. They monitor it from the present. 
 #2 "From the present."  We're not in the present now, Mr. Cole? 
 No, no.  This is the past.  This has already happened.  Listen... 
 #3 Mr. Cole, you belong in 1995 -- that's the present, is that it? 
 No, 1995 is the past, too.  Look... 
 DR. FLETCHER These scientists, Mr. Cole?  Are they doctors like ourselves? 
 No!  I mean yes, but... Look, I've been given a lot of drugs but I'm still perfectly lucid. You have to let me use the phone.  One call! 
 Yes? (listens, frowns, then) Whaaaaat?  "Voice mail"!  I don't know what you're talkin' about. ... Is this a joke?  I don't know any scientists. James who?  Never heard of you! 
 It was some lady.  She didn't know anything. 
 No.  That's the reason they chose me -- I remember things. 
 (lost in thought) What? 
 Wait!  This is only 1989!  I'm supposed to be leaving messages in 1995.  It's not the right number yet.  That's the problem.  Damn!  How can I contact them? 
 MR. PONYTAIL 
! 
 WOMAN'S VOICE 
! 
 You think you can remove the grill but you can't.  It's welded. 
 See?  I toldja.  And all the doors are locked, too.  They're protecting the people on the outside from us.  But the people outside are as crazy as us. 
 You know what "crazy" is?  "crazy" is "majority rules".  Take germs for example. 
 Germs?! 
 In the 18th century there was no such thing!  Nobody'd ever imagined such a thing -- no sane person anyway.  Along comes this doctor...Semmelweiss, I think.  He tries to convince people... other doctors mostly...that there are these teeny tiny invisible "bad things" called germs that get into your body and make you...sick!  He's trying to get doctors to wash their hands.  What is this guy...crazy?  Teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call 'em?..."germs"! 
 "What about the germs?"  I say.  He goes, "I don't believe in germs.  Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right?  Hey, you believe in germs, don't you? 
 I'm not crazy. 
 Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right?  That's very sane.  I can help you.  You want me to, don't you?  Get you out? 
 If you know how to escape, why don't you...? 
 Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right?  'Cause I'd be crazy to escape!  I'm all taken care of, see?  I've sent out word. 
 What's that mean? 
 I've managed to contact certain underlings, evil spirits, secretaries of secretaries, and assorted minions, who will contact my father. When he learns I'm in this kind of place, he'll have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you...properly. LIKE A GUEST!  LIKE A PERSON!  SHEETS! TOWELS!  LIKE A BIG HOTEL WITH GREAT DRUGS FOR THE NUT CASE LUNATIC MANIAC DEVILS... 
 Sorry.  Really sorry.  Got a little agitated.  The thought of escaping crossed my mind and suddenly...suddenly I felt LIKE BENDING THE FUCKING BARS BACK, RIPPING OFF THE GODDAMN WINDOW FRAMES AND...EATING THEM, YES, EATING THEM, AND LEAPING, LEAPING... 
 You dumb assholes!  I'm a mental patient! I'm supposed to act out.  Wait til you morons find out who I am.  My father's gonna be really upset.  AND WHEN MY FATHER GETS UPSET, THE GROUND SHAKES! MY FATHER IS GOD!  I WORSHIP MY FATHER. 
 They hurt you! 
 Not as bad as what they're doing to kitty. 
 Look at those assholes, they're asking for it!  Maybe people deserved to be wiped out! 
 (startled, turning) Wiping cut the human race!  That's a great idea!  But it's more of a long term thing -- right now we have to focus on more immediate goals. (sudden whisper) I didn't say a word about "you know what". 
 What are you talking about??? 
 You know -- your plan. 
 What're you writing?  You a reporter? 
 (shielding the magazine) It's private. 
 A lawsuit?  You going to sue them? 
 Yo, James -- time to take your meds. 
 Get it?  Monk - Key.  Monk! (big grin) Key! 
 (groggy) What....??? 
 Wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. Major load!  Listen up -- try and get it together.  Focus!  Focus!  The plan! Remember?  I did my part. 
 What...??? 
 Not, "what", babe!  When! 
 (pressing the key into Cole's hand) Now! 
 (leaping to his feet) YES -- NOW!  BUY NOW!  STOCKS AND BONDS! NO MORE MONKEY BUSINESS -- BUY NOW. 
 YES, YES.  ENHANCE YOUR PORTFOLIO NOW! 
 BUY!  SELL!  SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY! 
 OPPORTUNITY!  DEFINITELY!  A WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY!  OPENING NOW!  NOW'S THE TIME FOR ALL GOOD MEN TO SEIZE THE MOMENT!  YES! YES!  MASTERCARD!  VISA!  THE KEY TO HAPPINESS! 
 SEIZE THE MOMENT!  GET RICH!  NOW'S THE TIME!  GO FOR IT! 
 (missing a tackle) God damn you, Jeffrey, quit playing the fool. 
 LAST CHANCE!  LAST CHANCE!  HEY -- OW! 
 Place to go would be...Florida.  The keys are lovely this tine of year. 
 Be careful.  J. Edgar Hoover isn't really dead. 
 DR. CASEY This was in my box, but I have a slight suspicion it wasn't meant for me. 
 DR. CASEY "You are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen.  You live in a beautiful world.  But you don't know it.  You have freedom, sunshine, air you can breathe." 
 DR. CASEY "I would do anything to stay here, but I must leave.  Please, help me." 
 DR. GOODINS Hey, Kathryn, James Cole is one of yours, right? 
 DR. GOODINS He got out.  Took off.  Last seen, he was up on nine. 
 Just relax -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can... 
 Eh, excuse me.  Can I help you? 
 No more drugs.  Please... 
 DR. FLETCHER Don't be defensive, Kathryn, this isn't an inquisition. 
 DR. FLETCHER He should have been in restraints.  It was bad judgment on your part, plain and simple.  why not just cop to it? 
 DR. FLETCHER (impatient, not interested) Two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a Security Officer with a fractured skull. 
 DR. FLETCHER You see what I mean?  You're being defensive. (to Dr. Casey) Isn't she being defensive, Bob? 
 Uh, Dr. Fletcher -- we got another... situation. 
 DR. FLETCHER He was in full restraints?  And the door was locked? 
 Yes, sir.  Did it myself. 
 DR. FLETCHER And he was fully sedated? 
 DR. FLETCHER Then are you trying to tell me that a fully sedated, fully restrained patient somehow slipped out that vent, replaced the grill behind him and that he's wriggling through the ventilation system right now? 
 P.A. Flight 784 to San Francisco now boarding at Gate 38... 
 WOMAN'S VOICE 
! 
 BRUNETTE/P. A. SYSTEM The Freedom For Animals Headquarters now boarding on Second Avenue.  The Army of the Twelve Monkeys... 
 Well? 
 Uh, what? 
 He's drugged out of his mind!  He's completely zoned out. 
 Cole, did you or did you not record that message? 
 Uh, that message...me? 
 It's a digital reconstruction of a message, Cole, from a weak signal on our contact number.  Did you make that call? 
 (angrily) I couldn't call!  You sent me to the wrong year!  It was 1989. 
 1989! 
 You're certain of that? 
 (before Cole can answer) What did you do with your time, Cole? Did you waste it on drugs?  Women? 
 They forced me to take drugs. 
 Forced you!  Why would someone force you to take drugs? 
 I got into trouble.  I got arrested. But I still got you a specimen -- a spider -- but I didn't have anyplace to put it, so I ate it.  It was the wrong year anyway, so I guess it doesn't matter. 
 DR. FLETCHER! 
 What about it, Cole? 
 Did you see it? 
 Uh, no, sir.  I... 
 What about these people?  Did you see any of these people? 
 Him?  You saw that man? 
 Uh, I think so.  In the mental hospital. 
 MICRO3IOLOGIST (switching on the light) You were in a mental institution?! 
 You were sent to make very important observations! 
 You could have made a real contribution. 
 Helped to reclaim the planet... 
 As well as reducing your sentence. 
 The question is, Cole -- "Do you want another chance?" 
 Where are you? 
 My name's not "Bob". 
 Where are you? 
 What do you mean, "maybe"?  What's that supposed to mean? 
 1989. 
 It was supposed to be 1995. 
 No mistakes this time, Cole. 
 Stay alert.  Keep your eyes open. 
 Good thinking about that spider, Cole. Try and do something like that again. 
 Just relax now -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can fix it. 
 (FRENCH, subtitled) Where's your mask?!  And your clothes... and your weapon, you idiot?! 
 What?  What?? 
 (FRENCH, subtitled) Captain!  A Kraut!  We got a Kraut! 
 I don't understand.  Where am I? 
 (GERMAN, subtitled) How'd you get here, soldier?  What's your rank?  Where are your clothes? 
 I...don't understand. 
 (frowning, GERMAN, subtitled) German!  Speak German!  What are you doing here? 
 
! 
 Cole!  Oh, God, Cole, where are we? 
 DR. PETERS I think, Dr. Railly, you have given your alarmists a bad name.  Surely there is very real and very convincing data that the planet cannot survive the excesses of the human race:  proliferation of atomic devices, uncontrolled breeding habits, the rape of the environment, the pollution of land, sea, and air.  In this context, isn't it obvious that "Chicken Little" represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens' motto, "Let's go shopping!" is the cry of the true lunatic? 
 Doctor Railly -- please!  I wonder if you're aware of my own studies which indicate that certain cycles of the moon actually impact on the incidence of apocalyptic predictions as observed in urban emergency rooms and... 
 You were great. 
 The reservation's at nine thirty -- it's getting late. 
 Doctor Railly -- please -- this is very important! 
 (checking the professor) You sure you're gonna be all right? 
 Dr. Railly, I simply cannot understand your exclusion of the moon in relation to apocalyptic dementia... 
 MAN'S VOICE Get in! 
 MAN'S VOICE I've got a gun. 
 START THE CAR!  NOW! 
 I need you to drive me to Philadelphia. 
 That's why I can't walk there.  Turn here... I think... 
 I don't know how to drive!  We went underground when I was nine, I told you that.  When you come to the corner, turn right. 
 1989.  Six years for you.  There's the sign!  Right here! 
 You told me you'd help me.  I know this isn't what you meant, but...I was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. I probably smell bad.  Sorry about that. But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture. (sudden pride) I can read, remember? 
 It's the next step.  I checked out the Baltimore information, it was nothing. It's Philadelphia, that's where they are, the ones who killed everyone. (pointing suddenly, eagerly) Zs that a radio?  Does it play music? 
 I've never seen the ocean! 
 You used to call me "James". 
 (cynical laugh) Everybody's got a gun.  In this city... 
 Can you...can you make it louder?  I love hearing twentieth century music! Hearing music and breathing air! 
 "Never cry wolf!" 
 My father told me that.  "Never cry wolf."  Then people won't believe you if...something really happens. 
 Something bad.  Is that all the music? I don't want to hear this stuff... 
 Ohhhh, that one!  Can we hear that one? 
 Dr. Railly -- this is Palmer from Psych Admitting.  There was a guy here this afternoon looking for you.  He seemed very agitated.  We tried to keep him, but he refused 'n I kept thinking, I know this guy.  Then, just a few minutes ago, it came to me.  It's Cole!  James Cole. Remember him?  The paranoid who pulled the Houdini back in '89.  Well, he's back and he's...cuckoo...and he's looking for you.  I thought you oughta know. 
 It's just as I told you -- my husband and I had gone ahead -- she never showed.  That's totally unlike her! 
 (pulls out his notebook) Do you happen to know the make of her car? 
 Um...Acura...'92 Acura. ... Also, that cat's starving!  She would never neglect her cat! 
 You were in my dream just now.  Your hair was different, but I'm sure it was you. 
 About an airport...before everything happened.  It's the same dream I always have -- the only one.  I'm a little kid in it. 
 You were very upset.  You're always very upset in the dream, but I never knew it was you before. 
 No, I think it was always you.  It's very strange. 
 I'll be back in a minute. 
 And in Fresno, California...crews continue to attempt to rescue nine year old Ricky Neuman. 
 ----------------------- PAGE 52 MISSING ----------------------- 
 My notes.  Observations.  Clues. 
 A secret army.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys.  I've told you about them. They spread the virus.  That's why we have to get to Philadelphia.  I have to find them -- it's my assignment. 
 I just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates.  So scientists can come back and study it and find a cure.  So that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth. 
 You won't think I'm crazy next month. People are going to start dying.  At first the papers will say it's some weird fever, some virus.  Then they'll begin to catch on.  They'll get it. 
 I thought it was about us.  I thought maybe they'd found us and arrested me or something. 
 Just a joke. 
 When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- doesn't know if they're going to save him. 
 Nevermind.  It's not real -- it's a hoax.  A prank.  He's hiding in a barn. Hey, turn left here.  Left! 
 "And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses and dragons in their pleasant palaces:  and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged." 
 Where I come from we think of this as Eden. If we could just see the sun, eat sun-grown food.  Eden!  Look at them!  They donut know what they have.  They don't see the sky.  They don't feel the air! 
 The Twelve Monkeys!!!  They're here. (looks around) Somewhere.  Come on! 
 Look, I'm warning you.  You do anything, I'm going to go crazy -- hurt people! 
 No, sir, Old Bob -- don't even try. (conspiratorially) They hear everything.  They got that tracking device on you.  They can find you anywhere.  Anytime.  Ha Ha! 
 (touches his back jaw) In the tooth, Bob!  Right? (sudden triumphant grin) But I fooled 'em, old buddy! 
 They're keeping an eye on me. 
 The man...with the voice.  I recognized him.  He's from the present.  He... 
 Hey, buddy. 
 Stick around, bitch. 
 Please!  Please don't hurt me! 
 Are you hurt? 
 Come an.  We're running out of time. You can't help him. 
 I did him a favor.  Now come on. 
 I've got one now. 
 You!  You!  You're one of us, aren't you? 
 Uh, can we help you? 
 Excuse me.  You looking for something in particular? 
 I, uh, I'm looking for the, ah, the Army of the Twelve Monkeys. 
 We don't know anything about any "Army of the Twelve Monkeys", so why don't you and your friend disappear, okay? 
 I just need some information... 
 Didn't you hear me?  We're not... 
 What do you want -- money?  We only have a few bucks. 
 I told you what I want. (snaps at Railly) Lock the door! 
 Lock it now! 
 I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this. 
 Shut up! 
 Mason??? 
 Yeah, tucking, crazy Jeffrey Mason. 
 Then, Jeffrey becomes like this...big star -- the media latch on to him because he's picketing his own father, a "famous Nobel Prize winning virologist". You musta seen all that on TV. 
 No, I don't watch TV. 
 Is this him -- Dr. Mason? 
 That's him. 
 (very frightened) What are you going to do with us? 
 (stares at the photo, then) Tell me more about Jeffrey. 
 (a helpless shrug to his cohorts) Jeffrey started getting bored with the shit we do...picketing, leafleting, letter-writing stuff.  He said we were, "ineffectual liberal jerkoffs".  He wanted to do guerrilla "actions" to "educate" the public. 
 Yeah, that's when he let a hundred snakes loose in the Senate. 
 But we weren't into that kind of stuff. It's counter productive, we told him. 
 So he and eleven others split off and became this underground..."army" 
 The Army of The Twelve Monkeys. 
 They started planning a "Human Hunt". 
 They bought stun guns and nets and bear traps.  They were gonna go to Wall Street and trap lawyers and bankers... 
 But they didn't do it.  They didn't do any of it. 
 Yeah, just like always, Mr. Big Shot sold his friends out! 
 What's that mean? 
 He goes on TV, gives a news conference, tells the whole world he just realized his daddy's experiments are vital for humanity and that the use of animals is absolutely necessary and that he, Jeffrey Mason, from now on, is going to personally supervise the labs to make sure all the little animals aren't going to suffer. 
 (holding up a rolodex) What's this? 
 All I see are dead people.  Everywhere. What's three more? 
 The guy was a total fruitcake. 
 No -- he said his father was "God"! 
 We need gas. 
 I said I was too young to drive.  I didn't say I was stupid. 
 I got shot.  Look -- there's a gas station up ahead. 
 It was some kind of...war.  Never mind, you wouldn't believe me.  Turn off here. 
 You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you? 
 (sees the credit card) That has your name on it.  Give him cash. 
 Where are you going? 
 I love seeing the sun. 
 (leans closer, shuts his eyes) You smell so good. 
 I have to do something now.  Something I don't want to do.  I'm so sorry. 
 I have a mission.  It's important. 
 They find him? 
 Who?? 
 That kid.  The one in the pipe. 
 You believe this?  They're dropping a monkey down there with a miniature infra-red camera strapped on him and a roast beef sandwich wrapped in tinfoil. 
 You're making that up! 
 DR. MASON Would that I could enjoy this opulent dinner and this excellent and stimulating company for itself, with no sense of purpose.  But alas, I am "burdened" with the sense that with all this excess of public attention and this cacophony of praise, there comes great responsibility.  Indeed, I practically feel a soapbox growing under my feet whenever I stand for more than a few seconds. 
 What are you talking about?  What friend?  I'm not expecting anyone. 
 DR. MASON Current genetic engineering as well as my own work with viruses has presented us with powers as terrifying as any... 
 This is ridiculous.  My father is making a major address. 
 #3 Normally if we caught a guy sneaking around like this with no I.D., we'd bust his ass, excuse the French, but this one said he knows you... (smirk, smirk) -- and, since you seem to have had some...uh...unusual...uh..."associates", we certainly didn't want to arrest one of your, uh, closest...pals. 
 (dismissing Cole casually) Never saw him before in my life.  Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do. 
 (rising) You do know me.  You helped me once. 
 (turning to leave) That would be totally out of character. Helping people is against my principles. (to the Agents) See, he definitely doesn't know me.  Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS INTRUDER TO DEATH. 
 I'm here about some monkeys. 
 Excuse me -- what did you say? 
 Monkeys.  Twelve of them. 
 Arnold...Arnold. 
 (stepping back) My God, Arnie, what's happened to you? You look like shit 
 #3 (dubious) You know this man? 
 Of course I know him.  What do you think -- I act like this to strangers? Listen -- you fellas are terrific.  I thought you were pulling a number on me.  What a terrible thing if you'd thrown old Arnie out.  I owe you guys the big apologia!  Mea culpa, fellas. (turning to Cole) Christ, Arnie, it's black tie!  I mean, I said, "drop by," but, like, this is Dad's big "do"...vips, senators, secret service, and...and everything. 
 #4 "Arnie?" 
 Arnold Pettibone.  Old Arnie Pettibone. Used to be my best friend.  Still is. What've you lost, Arnie -- forty pounds? No wonder I didn't know you. You hungry? Lots of dead cow, dead lamb, dead pig. Real killer feast we're putting on tonight. 
 #4 These people -- all of 'em -- are true weirdoes! 
 #3 (moving to the phone) I'm gonna call in a description of this "Pettibone" character.  You go keep an eye on him.  Make sure he doesn't do one of the guests with a fork. 
 Hey, nice ta see ya.  Lookin' good!  Hi, there.  Yes, it has been a long time. 
 (whispers to Cole) County Hospital, right?  1989.  The "Immaculate Escape" -- am I right? (smiling to guests) Why, thank you -- you look wonderful, too. 
 Listen to me -- I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything.  I can't stop you.  I just want some information... 
 We need to talk.  Come on.  Upstairs. (to a guest) I am a new person!  I'm completely adjusted.  Witness the tux.  It's Armani. (whispers to Cole) Who chattered?  Goines?  Weller? 
 I just need to have access to the pure virus, that's all!  For the future! 
 Come on, follow me.  You don't lock so good. 
 I don't have time to go upstairs.  The police are looking for me.  I need to know where it is and exactly what it is. 
 (brightening suddenly) I get it!  This is your old plan, right? 
 Plan?  What are you talking about? 
 Remember?  We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?"  You do remember that, don't you? 
 Bulishit!  You're fucking with my head! 
 And that's when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "Hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!" 
 (grabbing Jeffrey) Listen, you dumb fuck!  The thing mutates We live underground!  The world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats.  We're like moles or worms.  All we want to do is study the original... 
 AGENT #4'S VOICE Okay -- take it easy.  We know who you are, Mr. Cole. 
 #4 Let's go somewhere and talk this thing over. Okay? Just come with me... 
 You're right!  Absolutely right.  Me's a nut case, totally deranged.  Delusional! Paranoid.  HIS PROCESSOR'S ALL FUCKED UP, HIS INFORMATION TRAY IS JAMMED. 
 YOU KNOW WHAT IT IS, THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS"?  IT'S A COLLECTION OF NATURE KOOKS WHO RUN A STORE DOWNTOWN. SPACE-CASE DO-GOODERS SAVING RAIN FORESTS. I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THOSE BOZOS ANYMORE. I QUIT BEING THE RICH KID FALL GUY FOR A BUNCH OF INEFFECTUAL BANANAS. SO MUCH FOR YOUR 
! 
 #3 Take it easy, Mr. Mason, we've got him. Everything's... 
 MY FATHER HAS BEEN WARNING PEOPLE ABOUT THE DANGERS OF EXPERIMENTATION WITH VIRUSES AND DNA FOR YEARS. YOU'VE "PROCESSED" THAT INFORMATION THROUGH YOUR ADDLED PARANOID INFRA-STRUCTURE AND LO AND BEHOLD, I'M FRANKENSTEIN AND THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS" BECOMES SOME SORT OF SINISTER REVOLUTIONARY CABAL. THIS MAN IS TOTALLY BATSHIT! YOU KNOW WHERE HE THINKS HE COMES FROM??? 
 #4 Did a man just come through here...limping? 
 
 LIGHTS!  LIGHTS! 
 There!  He's showing lights. 
 Goddamnit!  Where is he? 
 CO-PILOT There!  Over there. 
 Where? 
 CO-PILOT Eight o'clock!  He was right there. 
 He musta turned his lights of if. 
 CO-PILOT Couldn't drive down there without lights.  We just can't see 'em. 
 Maybe he's not driving! 
 He's not in here. 
 I...I...I'm really sorry. 
 (getting to his feet) No!  I...don't think so.  I stole a car and they chased me.  I hit a tree. 
 Yeah, sort of, I guess.  I...I'm sorry I locked you up.  I thought...I thought... I think maybe I am crazy! 
 Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus.  And suddenly, I wasn't sure.  We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff. (horrified) You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race?  It was my idea? 
 I'm..."mentally divergent".  I would love to believe that. 
 I need help all right.  They're coming after me. 
 (brightening) It would be great if I'm crazy.  If I'm wrong about everything...the world will be okay.  I'll never have to live underground. 
 The gun! ... I lost it 
 (showing her) No gun! (looking up) Stars!  Air!  I can live here.  Breathe! 
 I love this world! 
 You lucked out.  For a while we thought you were a body they found down state... mutilated. 
 (interrupts, hands her the photo) This the man he attacked? 
 Funny thing, Doctor, maybe you can explain it to me, you being a psychiatrist -- why do kidnap victims almost always try to tell us about the guys who grabbed 'em and try to make us understand how kind these bastards really were? 
 ASTROPHYSICIST'S VOICE (O.S.) Wake up! Wake up! 
 GEOLOGIST'S VOICE (O.S.) I think we gave him too much. 
 MICROBIOLOGIST'S VOICE (O.S.) WAKE UP, PRISONER! 
 Come on, Cole, cooperate! 
 Spit it out... you went to the home of a famous virologist... 
 (weakly) You...don't...exist!  You're in my mind... 
 Sorry. 
 Did you take the sedative? 
 He's fine.  It was just a "prank" he and his friends pulled. 
 ---found my thrills on Blueberry Hill... 
 Well done, James!  Well done!  Nice going!  Congratulations!  Good for you! 
 During your "interview," while you were..."under the influence," you told us you liked music! 
 This isn't the prison, James. 
 This is a hospital. 
 But just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium. 
 You're still a little... disoriented. 
 Stress!  Time travel! 
 You stood up very well, considering... 
 Superior work!  Superior! 
 You connected the Army of the 12 Monkeys to a world famous virologist and his son... 
 Others will take over now... 
 We'll be back on the surface in a matter of months.... 
 We'll retake the planet. 
 We're very close!  Because of you! 
 (unrolling a document) This is it, James...what you've been working for. 
 A full pardon! 
 You'll be out of here in no time. 
 Women will want to get to know you... 
 I DON'T WANT YOUR "WOMEN," YOU BRAINLESS TWIT! I WANT TO BE WELL! 
 (sympathetically) Of course you want to be well, James. And you will be...soon. 
 YOU DON'T EXIST, YOU SILLY BOZOS! YOU'RE NOT REAL! HA HA HA! PEOPLE DON'T TRAVEL IN TIME! YOU AREN'T HERE. MADE YOU UP!  YOU CAN'T TRICK ME! YOU'RE IN MY MIND! I'M INSANE AND YOU'RE MY INSANITY! 
 DR. FLETCHER He kidnapped you, Kathryn.  You saw him murder someone.  You knew there was a real possibility he would kill you, too.  You were under tremendous emotional stress. 
 DR. FLETCHER Kathryn, you know he can't possibly know that.  You're a rational person. You're a trained psychiatrist.  You know the difference between what's real and what's not. 
 (blurting) I saw you! In 1995!  In the real world! You were a bum!  You pulled out your teeth. 
 
! 
 Oh, yeah?  What do I want? 
 Tell me.  Tell me what I want. 
 More...than...anything. 
 Dr. Railly?  Jim Halperin, Philly P.D.. Sorry to call so early but... 
 Au contraire, Doctor.  No sign of your good friend, the kidnapper.  However, the plot thickens.  I have a ballistic report on my desk that says the bullet you claim you removed from Mr. Cole's thigh is an antique...and all indications are it was fired...sometime prior to 1920. 
 So what I was thinking was, maybe if I sent a detective down there to talk with you, you could maybe revise or amplify on the circumstances.... Hello?  Hello?  Dr. Railly? 
 The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole?  To that "dying" world' 
 No, sir!  I just want to do my part. To get us back on top...in charge of the planet.  And I have the experience, I know who the people are... 
 He really is the most qualified... 
 But all that..."behavior"... 
 (to Cole, a little hurt) You said we weren't "real," Cole... 
 Well, sir, I don't think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." It's stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused.  You don't know what's real and what's not. 
 But you know what's real now? 
 Yes, sir. 
 He'd have to bone up, catch up to our research, the latest clues... 
 He's proved to be a quick study... 
 You can't trick us, you know.  It wouldn't work. 
 And why would you want to?  It'll be dangerously close to the end. 
 I understand.  There'd be no point. 
 We're going to think about it, Cole. Among ourselves.  We'll get back to you. 
 DR. MASON You have reason to believe that my son may be planning to do what?!!! 
 DR. MASON (into the phone) I'm afraid this doesn't seem very professional to me, in fact it's distressingly unprofessional for some- one who treated my son briefly (if indeed you actually are who you say you are) to take a sudden unsolicited interest in his mental health six years later, and to telephone a parent to express opinions that would be inappropriate... (breaks off, listens, then) I don't know anything about "Monkey armies", Doctor.  Nothing whatsoever. If my son ever was involved in... (listens, then,) It would be doubly inappropriate to discuss matters of security with you, Dr. Railly, but if it will put you at ease, neither my son nor any other unauthorized person has access to any potentially dangerous organisms in this laboratory.  Thank you for your concern. 
 DR. MASON The psychiatrist who was kidnapped by that man who broke into my house.  She seems to have been suddenly struck by the most preposterous notion about Jeffrey. 
 DR. MASON Given the nature of our work, we can't ever be careful enough.  I think we should review our security procedures, perhaps upgrade them. 
 Let's consider again our current information -- if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28, 1995, that makes us know that...? 
 It was released in Philadelphia, probably on June 14, 1995. 
 And it appeared sequentially after that in...? 
 San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking. 
 Meaning...??? 
 That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco, then to New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking. 
 And your only goal is...??? 
 To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus. 
 So that...??? 
 Uh, so that a vaccine can be developed that will, uh, allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth. 
 It's the kidnap woman -- the one who was with the guy who tied us up. 
 What's she doing? 
 She's drawing attention to us, that's what she's doing. ... I don't know what you're up to this time, Mason, but you're gonna get us in deep shit! 
 Whine, whine, whine.  What about walkie talkies?  We used to have walkie talkies. 
 That's what they do -- secret weird stuff! 
 Not just on them.  Do 'em on people, too -- down at the shelters.  Feed 'em chemicals 'n take pictures of 'em. 
 They're watchin' you.  Takin' pictures. 
 Uh, yeah, sure.  Uh...who's James? 
 You get the bolt cutters? 
 One dozen.  They're in the van. 
 One dozen bolt cutters!  Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters? 
 (grins) You really want to know? 
 No!  Absolutely not. Don't tell me anything. 
 Hey!  Do you know what she's doing? 
 What's it say? 
 I can't see it. 
 (erupting) WHY DON'T WE FORGET MY GODDAMN PSYCHIATRIST AND DEAL WITH THE TASK AT HAND.  THIS IS IMPORTANT. 
 (spinning around) Your psychiatrist?  Did you just say, "your psychiatrist"? 
 Ex-psychiatrist!  Now, what about flashlights?  How many flashlights...? 
 That woman is...was...your... psychiatrist?  And now she's spray- painting our building? 
 Kathryn! 
 (turning, looking) No, I want to turn myself in.  Where is he? (placing his hands on his head) Don't worry -- it's all okay now.  I'm not crazy any more!  I mean, I am crazy, mentally divergent, actually, but I know it now and I want you to help me.  I want to get well... 
 I've seen that...before. 
 Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see. 
 Hey, no problem, it's probably just another kidnapping featuring Jeffrey's shrink, pardon me, make that ex-shrink. (indicating Jeffrey to the others) This is your leader, a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for God knows what whacko irresponsible schemes, and now who knows what she's painted out there on our wall? 
 WHO CARES WHAT PSYCHIATRISTS WRITE ON 
? (moves to Fale, jabs him with a finger) You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys?  Impossible!  Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?!  I'll tell you why:  because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- I hadn't even thought of it yet! 
 (triumphant) Then how come she knows what's going on? 
 Here's my theory on that.  While I was institutionalized, my brain was studied exhaustively in the guise of mental health. I was interrogated, x-rayed, studied thoroughly.  Then, everything about me was entered into a computer where they created a model of my mind. 
 Now I have to get going -- do my part. You guys check all this stuff out and load up the van.  Make sure you have everything.  I'm outta here. 
 He's seriously crazy -- you know that. 
 I don't understand what we're doing. 
 (climbing out after her) You mean, treat me?  Cure me?  Kathryn, those words on the wall -- I've seen them before...  I...I...dreamed them. 
 Twenty five bucks an hour. 
 You want quarter hours, go someplace else. 
 Forty four.  Fourth floor, turn right. Elevator's busted. 
 Tommy?  This is Charlie at the Globe. You know if Wallace has a new girl? Sort of a rookie type?  Blonde? 
 I thought I was in...prison again. 
 No, not really.  It's...it's in my mind.  Like you said. 
 I don't know -- I don't remember. 
 It was?  I didn't...know. 
 I think I saw a TV show like that when I was a kid.  Where a boy... 
 Well, maybe that kid saw the same TV show and copied it.  Listen, you were right, it's all in my head.  I'm mentally ill, I imagine all that stuff.  I know they're not real, I can trick them, make them do what I want.  I just worked on them in my head and I got back here.  I can get better.  I can stay here. 
 ...I had a dream about...something like that. 
 You said I had delusions -- that I created a world -- you said you could explain everything... 
 I want to be here.  In this time.  With you.  I want to become...become a whole person.  I want this to be the present. I want the future to be unknown. 
 This is my territory, bitch! 
 (confused, turns to Railly) Is this real -- or is this one of my delusions? 
 What're you -- some kind of tough guy? You wanna be a hero?  You gonna try and mess with me?  Come on... 
 Now that's a smart boy.  But you, honey, you think you can go 'round me and peddle your fancy ass in this part of town, you bet your life we got what I would call a major goddamn misunderstandin'. 
 JAMES -- DON'T! 
 (eyes bulging) You...heard...her.  Don't do it, man. 
 (amazed) You want me to rob him? 
 You two are crazy.  I got friends.  You put me in a closet, they're gonna be really pissed. 
 I have friends, man -- if you cut me... 
 What...the...fuck..are you doing??? 
 Just...just in case.  In case I'm not crazy... (holds up two bloody molars) That's how they find us.  By our teeth. (a beat, eye contact) I don't want them to find me.  Ever.  I don't want to go back. 
 POLICE!  THROW YOUR WEAPONS OUT AND COME OUTTA THERE! 
 A Carpet Cleaning Company? 
 You... you left them a message? 
 "The Army of the Twelve Monkeys -- they're the ones who are going to do it.  I can't do anything more.  The police are watching me." 
 They got your message, Kathryn.  They played it for me.  It was a bad recording...distorted.  I didn't recognize your voice. 
 Shall I put this on your account, Ma'am? 
 So then he goes into this incredible riff about how his shrink, like, replicated his brain while he was in the nut house. Turned it into a computer. 
 And Fale believed it? 
 Oh, you know Fale!  He's like, "If you guys get nailed -- and I'm sure you will -- I never saw you before in nay life!" 
 Let's do it! 
 Okay, that's Stage One.  In Stage Two, Monkey Four is over here... 
 What's the harm in opening the bag? His eyes are taped. 
 Yeah, it's cruel leaving him like that. 
 Ah, but cruelty is his specialty. 
 So why should we be like him? 
 Want the full effect? 
 DR. MASON Jeffrey?  I know it's you, Jeffrey.  I recognize your voice. 
 DR. MASON JEFFREY???  ... Very well.  You're out of your mind, Jeffrey.  I know all about your insane plan.  That woman -- your psychiatrist -- she told me. 
 DR. MASON I didn't believe her -- it seemed too crazy even for you.  But, just in case, I took steps to make sure you couldn't do it.  I took myself out of the loop!  I don't have the code any more.  I don't have access to the virus.  So, go ahead -- torture me, but you can't extract anything of use to yourself. 
 What...virus? 
 DR. MASON (spins his head toward Jeffrey) She knew about it, Jeffrey.  She knew you were going to try this. 
 What virus are we talking about, Dad? 
 DR. MASON You're insane, Jeffrey. 
 You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane?  Typical.  What does this virus attack?  Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter. (to the others) Have I ever "developed" a virus?  Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements?  Wow!  And I'm crazy! 
 DR. MASON Please tell me, Jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do?  I don't have to tell you I'm afraid. 
 THIS IS A FUCKING EXPERIMENT!  YOU'RE OUR HELPLESS LITTLE TEST ANIMAL, DADDY. GOT THAT?  NOW -- WHAT FUCKING VIRUS HAVE YOU COME UP WITH, YOU DEMENTED 
? 
 I think I've seen this movie before. When I was a kid.  It was on TV. 
 (moving his head to see the film) I have seen it, but I don't remember this part.  Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past.  The movie never changes -- it can't change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different -- you notice different things. 
 Flowers!  What flowers? 
 Why are we doing this? 
 But maybe I'm wrong.  Maybe you're wrong.  Maybe we're both crazy. 
 
 
 (whispers) Where can we hide for a few weeks? 
 Kathryn?! 
 We're booked on a 9:30 flight to Key West. 
 You were in my dream just now.  I didn't recognize you. 
 I mean in my dream -- I didn't realize it was you.  Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone. 
 Might be tight. 
 On your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, gotta take inta account your Army-of-the-Twelve-Monkeys factor. 
 Twelve Monkeys, honey.  Guess you folks didn't turn on your radio this morning. 
 Bunch a weirdoes let all the animals outta the zoo last night.  Then they locked up this big shot scientist in one of the cages. Scientist's own kid was one a the ones did it! 
 On the walls -- they meant the animals when they said, "We did it." 
 You can hear it on the radio all the stations... 
 Tell your people if they spot either one of them, not to try and apprehend then.  They should notify us and... 
 P.A. -- Flight 531 for Chicago is now ready for boarding at Gate Seventeen. 
 I know this place! ... This is my dream. 
 It's not just my dream.  I was actually here!  I remember now.  My parents brought me to meet my uncle.  About a week or two before...before...before everybody started dying. 
 (confounded) I was here...as a kid.  I think you were here, too.  But you...looked just like you look now. 
 (snaps out of it, hand to moustache) Right!  You're right.  I have to fix this. 
 Listen, I don't know whether you're there or not.  Maybe you just clean carpets.  If you do, you're lucky -- you're gonna live a long, happy life. But if you other guys exist and you're picking this up -- forget about the Army of The Twelve Monkeys -- they didn't do it.  It was a mistake' Someone else did it.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys are just dumb kids playing revolutionaries.  It was someone else! 
 I've done my job.  I did what you wanted. Good luck.  I'm not coming back! 
 Don't see a lot of this... cash. 
 (smiles, hands over the tickets) They'll begin boarding in about twenty minutes.  Have a nice flight, Mrs. Simmons. 
 Leave me alone!  I made a report.  I didn't have to do that. 
 This is the present.  This is not the past. This is not the future.  This is right now! 
 I'm staying here! You got that?  You can't stop me! 
 (high pitched voice) Anything you say, chief.  It's none of my business. 
 Woooo-eeee.  San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, Peking! That's some trip you're taking, sir, All in one week! 
 (handing over the tickets) Have a good one, sir. 
 Jo...Jose???? 
 Pulling out the tooth, man, that was nuts!  Here, take this. 
 What?  What for?  Are you crazy? 
 Me?  Are you kiddin?  You're the one! You were a hero, man.  They gave you a pardon!  And whadda you do?  You come back and fuck with your teeth!  Wow! 
 How did you find me? 
 The phone call, man.  The phone call. 
 The call I just made?  Five minutes ago? 
 Hey, five minutes ago, thirty years ago! Yes, that phone call.  I been in training for this a couple a months now -- ever since I got back from that... "weird" war we were in.  You remember that? (pressing the pistol on Cole) Here, take it, man!  You could still be a hero if you'd cooperate! 
 DR. PETERS Isn't it obvious that "Chicken Little" represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens' motto, "Let's go shopping!" is the cry of the true lunatic? 
 P.A  -- flight 764 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at Gate 36. 
 Coma on, Cole, don't be an asshole. (then, blurting it out) Look, I got orders, man!  You know what I'm sposed to do if you don't go along? I'm sposed to shoot the lady!  You got that?  They said, "If Cole don't obey this time, Garcia, you gotta shoot his girlfriend!" 
 I got no choice, man.  These are my orders.  Just take it, okay? 
 This part isn't about the virus, is it? 
 Hey, man... 
 It's about obeying, about doing what you're told. 
 They gave you a pardon, man.  Whatdaya want? 
 Who am I supposed to shoot? 
 I love you, Kathryn.  Remember that. 
 Excuse me, sir.  Would you mind letting me have a look at the contents of your bag? 
 DR. PETERS Me?  Oh, yes, of course.  My samples. I have the appropriate papers. 
 DR. PETERS Biological samples.  I have the paperwork right here. 
 I'm going to have to ask you to open this, sir. 
 DR. PETERS Open it? (blinks stupidly, then) Of course. 
 DR. PETERS Here!  You see?  Biological!  Check the papers -- it's all proper.  I have a permit. 
 It's empty! 
 DR. PETERS Well, yes, to be sure, it looks empty! But I assure you, it's not. 
. 
 We're all in a hurry, lady.  What's so special about you? 
 DR. PETERS You see!  Also invisible to the naked eye. 
 DR. PETERS It doesn't even have an odor. 
 That's not necessary, sir.  Here you go.  Thanks for your cooperation.  Have a good flight. 
 Get your hands off her! 
 I said, get your hands off her.  She's not a criminal.  She's a doctor...a psychiatrist. 
 DR. PETERS 
! 
 BRUNETTE (RAILLY) 
 N0OOOOO0O!!!!!! 
 DR. PETERS I think you're right. sir.  I think you've hit the nail on the head. 
 
