. 
 Yeah...  Thank you. 
 (droll) What I've seen...I've liked. 
 Because I think Hezbollah is trying to broaden into a political party right now. So you care about what you're thought of in America.  And in America, at this moment in time, Hezbollah does not have a face. (confident) That's why. 
 (blunt) No.  We don't do that. (beat) You've seen "60 Minutes" and Mike Wallace.  So you know our reputation for integrity and objectivity.  You also know we are the highest-rated, most-respected, TV-magazine news show in America. 
 That's good.  That works. (after a beat) Uh, you know, I want to ask you something...I know it sounds odd...but... 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) Hello, Sheikh...? (no answer) Hello, Sheikh...? 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) Norman. 
 What?  What? 
 Take your blindfold off. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) (sarcastic) Welcome to the world. 
 Fluctuating all over the place.  Anywhere we shoot, here, it's gonna be portable gennies and we'll run cable... 
 (into phone) Mike, it's me.  We're on... 
 - 
 Hi, honey. 
 Hi, Daddy. 
 What's new? 
 Ms. Laufer gave me a star today. 
 Yeah?  What for? 
 For reading. 
 That's great...  Little early for cartoons, isn't it? 
 Okay. 
 Oh, I didn't know you were home...  It's early...  Isn't it? 
 LIANE (CONT'D) Gotta take Debbie to ballet... 
 Sweetheart, c'mon.  C'mon. 
 She was playing with my Pooh doll again... 
 Slow down.  Slow down.  Slow down. Breathe deep.  Breathe deep.  Slow down, honey.  Slow down.  Slow down. 
 She was playing with the Pooh doll. 
 Pooh's dusty, sweetheart...he's dusty, and you breathed him in, okay?  So what's - what's happening to you now is... cells called mast cells told your lungs "don't breathe any more of that dust in." (beat) ...and the airways in your lungs are like branches.  And when the branches close up, you get an asthmatic attack.  And, we give you medicine, and you get better. Huh?  Okay?  You're better already, aren't you? 
 Can I go to dance tomorrow?  I'm better... 
 ...if you are, then I'll take Barbara to soccer and take you to dance after... 
 I can take her. 
 Don't you have to be at the office? 
 (instead, getting up) Is there any more rice...? 
 (nods) Yes, it's on the stove... 
 Maybe later. 
 How about you? 
 I'll take some. 
 Instant rice...? 
 Can I go over to Janeane's house? 
 I'm sorry, darling, have you seen my coffee mug...? 
 Try the car. 
 Uh, what are those boxes? 
 I'm going to the store.  You need anything? 
 What do you need at the store? 
 Soy sauce... 
 Right now? 
 (meaning in the car) That's my stuff from the office... 
 Why did you take your stuff from the office? 
 (simply) I didn't want to leave it there... 
 (confused) I don't understand. 
 (matter of fact) I got fired this morning...  Where else am I gonna take it? 
 Why?  Who said? 
 (specifically) Thomas Sandefur... 
 (stunned, fearful) What are we supposed to do...?  What about our medical coverage; what about our health?  What about our car payments? The payments on this house? 
 (a beat, specific) There's a severance agreement...  It includes cash payouts over time and continuing medical coverage... (beat) Sure you don't need anything? 
 No, thank you. 
 Thank you for having us... 
 I think I've got a problem with the gennie.  I have to go outside. 
 (going outside) Norman...? 
 He says you must not sit so close. 
 What? (re:  Bodyguard) I can't conduct an interview from back there. 
 You must move back your chair. 
 Will you tell him that when I conduct an interview, I sit anywhere I damn please! 
 There is no interview. 
 You!  I'm talking to you! 
 Yes. 
 We're there. 
 Good, well ask him if Arabic is his second language. 
 (to Interpreter) Don't interpret that! (to both) Hold it.  Hold it.  Hold it!  Slow, slow!! (to the Sheikh) Sheikh, do you mind...if you would just turn your chair a little bit to face Mr. Wallace? 
 Okay. 
 (Bodyguard assents; to Mike) Are you ready?  Or you want to keep fucking around and warm up some more...? 
 No. (wry) ...that's got my heart started. 
 Alright, Todd, give me the three-button on Mike, please.  Okay.  We are rolling. Okay, Mike. 
 (charming) Sheikh Fadlallah, thank you so much for seeing us. (changes) Are you a terrorist? 
 A servant of God?  Really... 
 ...everyone thinks Canadian Mounties ride horses and rescue ladies from rapids, Mike.  They backed locals in Oka in a fight with Mohawks over building a golf course on their burial site.  They beat up protesters at Kanasake... (pause) Where'd you hear that? 
 (to Lowell) It's Stuart...he's in Mexico City... 
 Let me call you back... 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) Yeah, Stuart...  What New York bank? 
 Hey Dad...Sharon... 
 (to Jake) No classes this morning? 
 Will he go on-camera and talk about the Mexico City branch? 
 I don't have to be there until ten- thirty. 
 Hi Mom, Lowell... 
 Hi, sweetheart... 
 (into phone) Will independent sources corroborate that? 
 Hello?  Yeah... 
 LOWELL'S SON (shouts back inside) Dad, you got a box out here... 
 (looking at her itinerary) Let me see this...  No, 'cause I gotta know where you're going at all times. 
 (into phone) I can't...  I've got to fly to Boston tomorrow. 
 SHARON (CONT'D) Two p.m.  Great.  Bye-bye. (hangs up) 
 (reading) ..."ignition propensity?" (to Sharon) ...you understand any of this...? 
 ...no...this looks like a table of temperatures...  Who's this from? 
 (shrugs) ...it's anonymous.  References to "P.M." (motions) It's got to be Philip Morris, huh? 
 I have to take a shower. 
 WASHINGTON - DAY 
 Yeah. 
 (into phone) Hi, this is Doug Oliver... 
 Oh, hi, Doug...it's Lowell.  I'm doing this story on fire safety...  People burning up from falling asleep smoking. I received a shitload of scientific papers from inside Philip Morris... Anonymous.  You or anybody in FDA know someone who can translate this stuff into English for me? 
 (beat) ...uh, yeah... 
 Mr. Wigand, please. 
 My name's Lowell Bergman...  I'm -- 
 No, Bergman...B.E.R.G.M.A.N....  I'm a producer with "60 Minutes"... 
 Yeah. 
 Yes. 
 (on phone) He doesn't want to talk to you. 
 How does he know he doesn't want to talk to me?  He doesn't know what I'm calling him about... 
 If you're curious to meet me... 
 LOWELL (OVER) Have you always lived in Louisville? 
 Mr. Bergman?  What did you want me to consult about? 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (turns, suspicious) Who's that? 
 (wry) That's room service.  They usually knock first. (calls) Come on in...  Over here, please. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) (pouring) How do you like your coffee?  Black? 
 Black, black... 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) Look, I really don't have that much time... 
 (nods) Is there anything you want to know about me, Mr. Wigand...? 
 Like what?  Your sign? 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) I know what I have to know. 
 Just so I know you know, when I talk to people in confidence, it stays that way. 
 (abruptly) How did a radical journalist from Ramparts Magazine end up at CBS? 
 I still do the tough stories.  "60 Minutes" reaches a lot of people. 
 (after a beat) Let me see the documents... 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) ...this is a Fire-Safety Product Study for Philip Morris.  Burn rates...ignition propensity...things of this nature. (after a beat) I could very easily explain this to you in layman's terms, because it's from another company... 
 Far as you go where? 
 (a beat) This issue is a drop in the bucket.  I can talk to you about what's in here. But I can't talk to you about anything else. 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (meaning Philip Morris documents) I signed a confidentiality agreement.  I honor agreements... 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) Doesn't CBS have confidentiality agreements, Mr. Bergman? 
 Between journalists and management, yes, I believe they do...but I don't take that seriously. (after a beat) Where do you work? 
 Did work. 
 (fast) Did work. 
 (the bottom line) How much would I get paid? 
 That, you have to discuss with CBS Business Affairs.  But, for something like this, I would say anywhere between 10, 12 thousand. 
 Should I just take the documents now? 
 If you want to do it. 
 I worked as the head of Research and Development for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company.  I was a Corporate Vice President.  Mr. Bergman... 
 (on screen) "President Assad of Syria said that difficult obstacles remain but that his country, quote, 'looks forward to a great, long peace with Israel.'" 
 (kissing Mike) It's a Peabody, Mike.  When you're dead and buried, Hezbollah is the one they're gonna remember you for... 
 (to his Editor) ...come in earlier on Mike's Marine barracks line when he's talking to Sheikh Mussawi... 
 You eating with us? 
 Yeah. 
 Bring a tie so they'll let us in the front door... 
 Debbie... 
 Oh, Bill...  Main Justice is investigating a major New York bank. Laundering narco dollars out of their Mexico City branch.  You want it for the Evening News? 
 I'm gonna do a follow-up. 
 Catch ya' later. 
 Debbie... 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) (to Debbie; finally) I want you to get legal onto CORPORATE CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS.  Boundaries of their constraint.  Kentucky state law about.  I want you to drop everything. 
 (cuts in) Okay. 
 LOUISVILLE - DAY 
 (to Wigand) Mr. Wigand, you can go up now... 
 (re:  his distraction) Sorry.  I'm accepting an award from the Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation.  It's going to kill the rest of my day. 
 (precise) Seven... 
 (to lawyer) And, he gets out there and he has five strokes on us.  He has more concentration than anybody I've ever met.  It's spooky how he can concentrate. 
 I'd rather play than talk about it. (beat) What did you want to see me about?  I don't like being back here. 
 Jeffrey says exactly what's on his mind. Most people consider what they're saying...social skills...  Jeffrey just charges right ahead. (smiles, after a beat) Now, I know you understood the nature of the confidentiality portion of your severance agreement with Brown & Williamson, Jeff... 
 Chapter and verse. 
 (nods) Yeah, I know you do... (beat) You know, I came up through sales.  One of the reasons I was a great salesman, was I never made a promise I couldn't keep. (beat) I knew that if I ever broke my promise I'd suffer the consequence... 
 (contained) Is that a threat? 
 ...we worked together for, what was it, three years...? Now, the work we did here is confidential, not for public scrutiny...any more than are one's family matters... 
 (quietly) You threatening my family, now, too? 
 Now, don't be paranoid, Jeff. (a beat) About the direction of research here, we may have had our differences of opinion... 
 "Research..." (smile + scorn) You declare, as a badge of honor, you don't even know what makes water boil... 
 That's why we hire scientists... 
 (interrupts, direct) Okay. (a beat, honest) I don't believe you can maintain corporate integrity without confidentiality agreements.  I was paid well for my work.  The health and welfare benefits are good.  The severance package is fair.  I have no intention of violating my confidentiality agreement and disclosing that which I said I wouldn't. 
 I appreciate all that, Jeff.  But, upon reflection...we've decided to expand our zone of comfort with you. 
 (a beat) And if I don't? 
 A (speaking for Sandefur) If we "arrive" at the conclusion you're acting in bad faith?  We would terminate, right now, payouts under your severance package.  You and your family's medical benefits.  And initiate litigation against you, Mr. Wigand. 
 Dr. Wigand. 
 A (a beat) Dr. Wigand...after you've examined the document, you will see it is in your own best interest and you'll sign it. 
 So, what you are saying is:  it isn't enough that you fired me.  For no good reason!  Now you question my integrity? On top of the humiliation of being fired? You threaten me?!  You threaten my family?! (beat) It never crossed my mind not to honor my agreement... (turning, to Sandefur) But I will tell you, Mr. Sandefur, and Brown & Williamson, too...  Fuck me? (a beat) Well, fuck you!! 
 A I'm not sure he got the message... 
 (with total confidence) Oh, I think he did. 
 (answering) Yeah... 
 Who is this? 
 (crazed) ...protect your sources...!  You screwed me!  You sold me out! 
 What are you talking about?  Where are you? 
 Fuck you, too! 
 (motioning with the club, threatening) Stay away from me!  You stay away from me! 
 Jeffrey, you forgot their lunches -- 
 Mrs. Wigand, how do you do? 
 (to the girls, protectively) Jump in, quick, c'mon... 
 I'm Lowell Bergman.  We spoke on the phone, remember? 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) C'mere.  I want to talk to you. 
 Good.  I want to talk to you. 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (confronting him) What do... 
 (running over) I did not burn you.  I did not give you up to anyone! 
 (continuing) This is my house...  In front of my wife, my kids?!  What business do we have? 
 To straighten something out with you. Right here.  Right now. 
 So, you didn't mention my name?  You haven't talked to anybody about me? 
 Why am I gonna mention your name? 
 How did Brown & Williamson know I spoke to you...? 
 How the hell do I know about Brown & Williamson? 
 It happened after I talked to you.  I do not like coincidences! 
 And I don't like paranoid accusations! I'm a journalist.  Think.  Use your head. How do I operate as a journalist by screwing the people who could provide me with information before they provided me with it? 
 (skeptical) You came all the way down here to tell me that? 
 No.  I did not.  Big Tobacco is a big story.  And you got something important to say.  I can tell. (a beat, personal) But, yes.  I did. I came all the way down here to tell you: story, no story, fuck your story, I don't burn people. 
 (after a beat) Ride with me while I take the girls to school... 
 - 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) And, I'm unemployed.  So I have to protect my medical coverage. (the bottom line; turning to look at Lowell in the rear seat) ...so I left them a message this morning. Their expanded confidentiality agreement? I will sign it. 
 They're afraid of you, aren't they? 
 They should be. 
 (after a beat, trying to make it easier for him) Talk to me outside the zone of your agreement? 
 (guarded) Like what? 
 Like where'd you work before Brown & Williamson? 
 (a beat) Johnson & Johnson.  Union Carbide in Japan.  I was general manager and director of new products.  I speak Japanese.  I was a director of corporate development at Pfizer.  All health- related. (wry) What else?  Outside the "zone"...? 
 I don't know...you think the Knicks are gonna make it through the semi-finals? 
 For example.  James Burke, the CEO of Johnson & Johnson...when he found out that some lunatic had put poison in Tylenol bottles, he didn't argue with the FDA...  He didn't even wait for the FDA to tell him.  He just pulled Tylenol off every shelf of every store right across America.  Instantly.  And then he developed the safety cap...  Because, look, as a CEO, sure, he's gotta be a great businessman, right?  But he's also a man of science.  He's not going to allow his company...to put on the shelf...a product that might hurt people. (sarcastic) Not like the Seven Dwarfs... 
 Seven dwarfs? 
 The seven CEOs of Big Tobacco...they got up in front of Congress that time...it was on television... 
 ...and swore under oath that they know nothing about addiction, disease... 
 It was on C-SPAN.  Yeah. 
 Okay, so, here you are...you go to work for tobacco. (after beat) You come from corporate cultures where research, really, creative thinking, these are core values.  You go to tobacco...  Tobacco is a sales culture. Market and sell enormous volume.  Go to a lot of golf tournaments.  The hell with everything else. (beat) What are you doing?  Why are you working for "tobacco" in the first place? 
 (deadly honest) I can't talk about it.  The work I was supposed to do...might have had some positive effect.  I don't know...it could have been beneficial. (bitterness there) Mostly, I got paid a lot.  I took the money.  My wife was happy.  My kids had good medical.  Good schools.  Got a great house. (simply) I mean, what the hell is wrong with that...? 
 Nothing's wrong with that.  That's it; you're making money...you're providing for your family?  What could be wrong with that? 
 I've always thought of myself...as a man of science.  That's what's wrong with it. 
 Then...you're in a state of conflict, Jeff. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) Because, look, here's how it lays out: if you got vital, insider stuff the American people for their welfare really do need to know...and you feel impelled to disclose it and violate your agreement in doing so, that's one thing.  On the other hand, if you want to honor this agreement, then that's simple.  You do so.  You say nothing.  You do nothing. There's only one guy who can figure that out for you.  And that's you.  All by yourself. 
 I've got to go pick up the girls.  They only had half a day... 
 LOWELL (OVER) He referred to this...the Seven Dwarfs... 
 LOWELL (OVER) The seven CEOs of Big Tobacco... Referred to this...  Said they should be afraid of him...  I assume, afraid of what he could reveal. (to Staff Lawyers) Now, you tell me.  What does this guy have to say that threatens these people? 
 Well, it isn't "cigarettes are bad for you"... 
 Hardly new news. 
 No shit. 
 What's this? 
 (re:  video) What that is is tobacco's standard defense.  It's the "we don't know" litany:  "Addiction?  We believe not. Disease?  We don't know.  We take a bunch of leaves, roll 'em together.  You smoke 'em.  After that?  You're on your own. We don't know." (beat) So...tells me nothing. (beat) Besides, you'll never get what he's got. 
 Why not? 
 Because of this guy's confidentiality agreement, he is never gonna be able to talk to you. 
 That's not good enough.  This guy is the top scientist in the number three tobacco company in America.  He's a corporate officer.  You never get whistle-blowers from Fortune 500 companies.  This guy is the ultimate insider.  He's got something to say; he wants to say it; I want it on "60 Minutes." 
 Doesn't matter what he wants. 
 Am I missing something here? 
 What do you mean, Mike? 
 He's got a corporate secrecy agreement? Give me a break.  This is a public-health issue, like an unsafe airframe on a passenger jet or...some company dumping cyanide into the East River.  Issues like that?  He can talk, we can air it. They've got no right to hide behind a corporate agreement. (re:  his coffee) Pass the milk... 
 (does) They don't need the right.  They've got the money. 
 The unlimited checkbook.  That's how Big Tobacco wins every time.  On everything. They spend you to death.  $600 million a year in outside legal.  Chadbourne-Parke. Ken Starr's firm, Kirkland and Ellis. Listen.  GM and Ford, they get nailed after 11 or 12 pick-ups blow up.  Right? These clowns have never...I mean ever... 
 Not even once... 
 ...not even with hundreds of thousands dying each year from an illness related to their product...have ever lost a personal-injury lawsuit.  On this case, they'll issue gag orders, sue for breach, anticipatory breach, enjoin him, you, us, his pet dog, the dog's veterinarian... Tie him up in litigation for ten of fifteen years.  I'm telling you, they bat a thousand.  Every time.  He knows that. That's why he's not gonna talk to you... 
 Okay, let's look through the looking glass the other way... 
 What do you mean? 
 We got a guy...who wants to talk but he's constrained. (beat) What if he were "compelled"? 
 (eating) Oh, torture?  Great ratings. 
 What do you mean compelled? 
 (seriously) I mean compelled by a Justice Department, state courts, be a witness.  That would cut through any confidentiality agreement, wouldn't it? 
 Yeah... 
 What does that do? 
 What do you mean, what's it do? 
 What I mean is, like, how does it cut through the confidentiality agreement? 
 Because he has to reveal it in a court of law.  It's on record, it's out.  It's no secret anymore.  So how can they restrain his speech or retaliate?  It's out in the world... 
 (nods) If you could engineer it into the court record, you might have something.  They would have a helluva time trying to restrain his speech then, wouldn't they? 
 (still skeptical) Yeah, but what venue?  And where does he get - does he have killer attorneys? 
 I don't think he's got any attorneys. 
 He's gonna need attorneys who aren't afraid of risking years of litigation. And millions of dollars of their own dough in legal costs... 
 What do you say, Mike?  What do you think? 
 (pause) Even if he gets the defense team, will he go for it? 
 MRS. WATSON ...you're awfully overqualified, Dr. Wigand. 
 (after a beat, awkward) I'm trying to...start a new career...  I believe I could be a good teacher... 
 MRS. WATSON Let me give it some thought... 
 (selling) ...and not a lot of companies in the health-care field hire ex-tobacco scientists. 
 That's it... 
 (beat) That's where our babies were born... Debbie took her first steps, right there...in the grass. 
 LIANE (CONT'D) I didn't plan on this... 
 Hey, hey, hey, c'mon.  C'mon.  We can make this work for us.  Okay?  It's just...it's a smaller scale. Simpler...easier...more time.  More time together.  More time with the kids.  More time for us, okay?  It's just...  Can you imagine me coming home from some job feeling good at the end of the day?  This is gonna be better.  This is gonna be better. 
 Hey, baby.  What's wrong? 
 (terrified, whispers) What's that outside, Daddy? 
 Did you see somebody or did you hear them? 
 I heard them. 
 Where? 
 In the backyard. 
 Sit at Daddy's desk, okay?  Why don't you just sit up at the desk.  Get out some paper and draw me a picture, okay?  What are you gonna draw me, baby?  An animal, something like that?  You stay down here until Daddy gets back...alright, Barbara? You stay down here. 
 (to himself) You almost got your damn head blown off... 
 (reassuring her) It's just a raccoon, baby...nothing. 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) They're nocturnal.  You know what that means?  That means that they only come out at nighttime. 
 (sleepy) Yeah... 
 (after a beat) Lowell...  Jeffrey Wigand... 
 No.  No, it's okay...  How's - how's the new place? 
 The new place?  New. 
 (intuiting) You okay? 
 You know, I was thinking of calling you tomorrow, anyway. (beat) How are your kids handling the new house? 
 Good. (beat) You have kids? 
 She's okay. 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) Hold on a minute, Lowell... (after a beat) ...somebody...may be following me.  I don't know.  They came on the property... 
 I don't want to be paranoid...  I mean, maybe it's a game.  Some kind of mind game. 
 I don't know what the fuck I really think!  Are they doing it?  Is some crank doing it?  Are they doing it to make me feel paranoid?  Are they doing it for real and don't give a shit what I think? I don't know!  I don't fucking know. 
 Jeffrey, describe for me in detail what happened. 
 Well, no, look...I mean, there was a footprint.  Forget it.  It's probably not important at all. (beat) You know, I got a job now.  I'm teaching high school. Japanese and Chemistry. (beat) So, what were you calling about? 
 No, you said you were going to call me tomorrow.  So, what about? 
 (after a beat) Oh, yes, yes, yes, I did...I wanted to talk to you.  I wanted to hook up and talk to you.  About what we were talking about in your car. 
 ...okay. 
 (after a beat) Makes you feel good?  Putting what you know to use? 
 How'd you know that, Lowell? 
 It's obvious, isn't it? 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) Hello.  You there 
 Yeah...  Look, thanks for talking.  I'm sorry I woke you up. 
 It's okay. 
 Lowell...? 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) Who is this?  Do not call here!  Do not... 
 What did you get us? 
 Tempura... 
 Marcuse.  Yeah.  He was my mentor.  He had a major influence on the New Left in the late '60s...and on me, personally. 
 Next to your father? 
 My father?  What the hell's that got to do with my father? 
 Is that why you became a journalist? Then you get to ask all the questions? 
 You charge by the hour? 
 My father was a mechanical engineer...most ingenious man I ever knew. 
 Well, my father left us when I was five- years old.  He was not the most ingenious man I ever knew...  Let's get back to Brown & Williamson.  If you decide to go on "60 Minutes," I got to know everything about why you got fired. 
 Why? 
 They're gonna dig up stuff from your past, they're gonna throw it at you.  I got to know what they're gonna throw. You understand? 
 (concedes) I drink.  A couple of occasions more than I should have. (thinks) I was cited for shoplifting once.  But it was a mistake... (hesitant, after a beat) I pushed Liane one time.  We were both stressed out because of the pressure. She went to her mother's. (out of the blue) I got fired because when I get angry I have difficulty censoring myself.  And I don't like to be pushed around! 
 I'm not pushing you around! (after a beat) I'm asking you questions. 
 I'm just a commodity to you, aren't I?  I could be anything.  Right?  Anything worth putting on between commercials... 
 (honest) ...to a network, probably, we're all commodities. (beat) To me?  You are not a commodity.  What you are is important. 
 (skeptical) No. 
 You should.  Because when you're done, a judgment is going to go down in the court of public opinion, my friend.  And that's the power you have. 
 You believe that? 
 I believe that?  Yes, I believe that. 
 You believe that because you get information out to people...something happens? 
 Yes. 
 Maybe that's just what you've been telling yourself all these years to justify having a good job?  Having status?  And maybe for the audience, it's just voyeurism?  Something to do on a Sunday night.  And maybe it won't change a fucking thing.  And people like myself and my family are left hung out to dry. Used up!  Broke, alone! 
 Are you talking to me or did somebody else just walk in here?!  I never abandoned a source! 
 I don't think you really understand -- 
 (running over) No, don't evade a choice you gotta make be questioning my reputation or "60 Minutes'" with this cheap skepticism! 
 I have to put my family's welfare on the line here, my friend!  And what are you puttin' up?  You're puttin' up words! 
 Words!  While you've been dickin' around at fucking company golf tournaments, I been out in the world, giving my word and backing it up with action. 
 (surprisingly mild) I said I'd call the kids before they went to bed.  Onisa... 
 The stringer was supposed to be shooting B-roll on street cops in New Orleans. What's with all the horses? 
 Camera guy's got a thing about mounted police. 
 (re:  horses) Don't any of these guys ride in cars or walk? 
 How long did he stay on this? 
 What was he seeing? 
 (into phone) Yes, hello...  I'm trying to reach Mr. Richard Scruggs... 
 Could you hold on one second, please? (to Lowell) Lowell, I got him on the phone. 
 Hold on...  Mobile approach...this is Lear November 643.  Over. 
 (after a beat) Request a flight level 220, on a heading of 284 degrees.  Over. (after a beat) Mr. Bergman? 
 Yes, I'm right here.  Could you call me back on a hard line? 
 Alright. 
 Area code 212-555-0199. 
 I'll call you then. 
 (re:  footage) What do we do with that? 
 I don't know. 
 ...you filed a lawsuit against tobacco on behalf of the State of Mississippi, did you not? 
 (nods) That's right... 
 (after a beat) Well, I'm working with someone, now, who was the former head of research at Brown & Williamson, a former corporate officer there. 
 What's your interest in this, Mr. Bergman? 
 Well, he may tape an interview with us. And, we believe if his testimony showed up in a court record first, it would free him up from his confidentiality agreement and give him some protection. 
 It could work.  If it's public record, it's public record. 
 Yeah, and he's going to need legal representation. 
 He sure as hell will. 
 (a beat) Has he decided to go public?  Because let me tell you, we've been doing this for three years now, and we've worked with a lot of corporate cases involving whistle-blowers, so we know...  Big Tobacco will do everything in their power to stop him.  So, is your man truly committed? 
 Well, actually, no.  Well, he's on the fence.  That's the point. 
 Well, we'd certainly be interested in making his acquaintance, but without knowing what he's going to do... 
 Well, would you want him to call you? Or, you want to call him?  How do you want to do it? 
 (no nonsense) It would be better if he called us. 
 Yeah. 
 Alright? 
 Okay.  Thank you. 
 (contemplating phone; to Debbie re:  show) Oh, we need cops on the street.  We don't need them on horses. 
 I don't know what he was thinking. 
 Oh, for God's sake, what has this guy got, a horse fetish? 
 Alright, alright. 
 Get me to New Orleans this afternoon. I'll shoot the fucking thing myself! 
 What are you cooking? 
 I'm cooking pasta primavera. 
 Oh, I love that stuff. 
 I'm going to have to go downstairs. 
 Debbie, Barbara...  Debbie! 
 What happened? 
 Dispatch received a call of shots fired in the area.  Uniforms arrived on the scene and found this white male subject shot to death. 
 Was it gang related? 
 There's no indication as far as a tag or an advertisement... 
 (answering) Excuse me.  Yeah... 
 They're terrorizing us.  Death threats?! To my family?  My kids?! 
 Someone put a bullet in my mailbox. 
 Jeff, call the FBI right away... 
 They do this with impunity! 
 Jeff... 
 They get to go home at night.  What does it cost these people to do this to us? Nothing?!  My girls are crying, so fuck them!  I want to tape!  I'm done thinking about it. 
 (cuts in) Then hold it off the air until you got that.  But I want to go to New York. And I want to go on the record.  Right now! 
 Good.  But Jeff... 
 I'll call them, Lowell. 
 #2 Did you handle the round, Mr. Wigand? 
 Yes, I'm afraid I did. 
 #1 We won't be able to lift usable prints. 
 #2 Do you own a gun, Mr. Wigand? 
 A gun?  Yes. 
 #2 What caliber is your gun? 
 What caliber is my gun? 
 #2 Yes, sir.  What caliber is your gun? 
 (a dawning realization) What does that have to do with the price of tea in China? 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (a beat, realizing) You think I put that bullet in the mailbox myself...? 
 #2 If we could take a look, Mr. Wigand... 
 #1 Why do you keep this gun? 
 I don't think it's unconstitutional yet to own a gun.  I'm a target shooter. 
 #2 That bullet was for a .38 caliber.  Do you own a .38? 
 Yes, I do.  A .38 Target Master.  In my gun safe downstairs.  A .45 Gold Cup.  A .22 target pistol.  So what? 
 #2 (after a beat) Do you have a history of emotional problems, Mr. Wigand? 
 Yes.  Yes, I do. (beat) Yes, I get extremely emotional when assholes put bullets in my mailbox...! 
 What's going on? 
 I told him that you had an E-mail death threat that said if you didn't shut the "F" up, they were going to kill you... 
 (outraged) You can't take that...  It's personal property...! 
 (after him) ...my files!  Personal correspondence... 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) ...letters to my brother...my will. 
 #2 You alright, Mr. Wigand? 
 #1 We need to take a look at your gun safe, Mr. Wigand. 
 (interrupts) I'm telling you, your agents in that office are acting improperly!  Now, who are they trying to protect? 
 (heated) You better take a good look!  Because I'm getting two things:  pissed off and curious!  Now, any of these guys been offered jobs in corporate security after they retire?  Either one of those guys have ex-agent pals already in those jobs? Like, for instance, their ex-supervisor, who's already at Brown & Williamson as we fucking speak? 
 (beat) I'll give it a look. 
 You're getting my drift? 
 I'll give it a look. 
 So, is everything okay? 
 How are the rooms?  Comfortable? 
 (to Mike) Yes, very.  You know, I enjoy your work so much...when you're talking to somebody, I always feel like I'm right there. 
 Thank you got saying that... 
 Do you think we could talk about the taping?  Tomorrow's taping, just so we can get it out of the way and order... 
 Yeah, well, questions will go toward what work you did there, why you were fired. And others will deal... 
 (not sure she quite heard) ...taping? (beat) What are you taping? 
 I'm doing an interview. 
 (whispers) An interview!  Do you know what they will do to us...!  I thought...  Sorry. 
 (trying to intervene) Liane, this is a preliminary... (after a beat) You didn't tell her we were taping? What did she think she was coming to New York for? 
 ...to talk about it.  To think about it. I had a plan to ease her into it.  But, I really - I didn't know how to do that... 
 Oh, man. 
 Who are these people? 
 (frustrated) Ordinary people!  Under extraordinary pressure, Mike.  What the hell do you expect?  Grace and consistency? 
 You heard Mr. Sandefur say before Congress that he believed nicotine was not addictive...? 
 (nods) ...I believe Mr. Sandefur perjured himself because I watched those testimonies very carefully. 
 All of us did.  There was this whole line of people...whole line of CEOs up there all swearing. 
 Part of the reason I'm here is I felt that their representation clearly misstated, at least within Brown & Williamson's representation, clearly misstated...what is common language within the company...we are in the nicotine delivery business. 
 And that's what cigarettes are for...? 
 A delivery device for nicotine. 
 A delivery device for nicotine.  Put it in your mouth, light it up, and you're gonna get your fix... 
 You're gonna get your fix... 
 You're saying that Brown & Williamson manipulates and adjusts the nicotine fix, not by artificially adding nicotine, but by enhancing the effect of nicotine through the use of chemical elements such as ammonia... 
 (nods) The process is known as "impact boosting..."  While not spiking nicotine, they clearly manipulate it.  There's extensive use of this technology, know as "ammonia chemistry."  It allows for the nicotine to be more rapidly absorbed in the lung and therefore affect the brain and central nervous system. 
 The straw that broke the camel's back for me and really put me in trouble with Sandefur was a compound called "coumarin."  When I came on board at B&W, they had tried to transition from coumarin to a similar flavor that would give the same taste, and had been unsuccessful.  I wanted it out immediately. I was told that it would affect sales, so I should mind my own business.  I constructed a memo to Mr. Sandefur indicating I could not in conscience continue with coumarin in a product that we now knew, we had documentation, was similar to coumadin, a lung-specific carcinogen... 
 And you sent the document forward to Sandefur? 
 I sent the document forward to Sandefur. I was told that we would continue to work on a substitute, we weren't going to remove it as it would impact sales, and that that was his decision. 
 In other words, you were charging Sandefur and Brown & Williamson with ignoring health considerations consciously... 
 Most certainly. 
 And on March 24, Thomas Sandefur, CEO of Brown & Williamson had you fired.  And the reason he gave you? 
 Poor communication skills. 
 And, do you wish you hadn't come forward? You wish you hadn't blown the whistle? 
 Yeah, there are times I wish I hadn't done it.  There are times I feel compelled to do it.  If you asked me would I do it again?  Do I think it's worth it?  Yeah, I think it's worth it. 
 Hi. 
 (in unison) Hi. 
 My name is Jeff Wigand.  You can call me Mr. Wigand; you can call me Dr. Wigand--I have a Ph.D. in biochemistry and endocrinology; you can call me Jeff... (beat) Anything else you want to call me...you'll have to do so in private... (a few kids smile) Okay...  I find chemistry to be magical. I find it an adventure.  An exploration into the building blocks of our physical universe... (beat) So, how many of you have taken chemistry before? 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (easy smile) Okay...I've never taught it before, so we're gonna be fine. 
 He's on line three. 
 Hello. 
 Mr. Scruggs, Jeff Wigand.  Lowell Bergman said I should give you a call... 
 My co-counsel, Ron Motley, and I have filed a lawsuit against the tobacco industry on behalf of the State of Mississippi to get the state reimbursed Medicaid costs for treating people with smoking-related illness. (beat) If you'd be interested in talking to us, we'd certainly like to talk to you... 
 When should we do this? 
 Who the hell are you?!  What are you doing in my house?! 
 It's okay, Jeff. 
 Mr. Wigand, you need to speak to... 
 (wry) It's okay.  You got your own security now... 
 Lowell, I can't afford -- 
 ...they "volunteered."  A friend owns a large security company. 
 How are you doing, Mr. Wigand?  I'm Jon Talifaro.  There'll be three of us on detail. 
 (crossing through) I'm going to the store.  Please explain our new "houseguests" to your children. 
 I called Richard Scruggs in Mississippi... 
 I heard. 
 I'm going to be a witness for them in their litigation.  So I'm going to fly to Pascagoula to give a deposition... 
 I know.  I'm going to go there tonight... 
 Did you have a good day? 
 Yes, I did.  I had a great day. 
 Coffee, Lowell? 
 Yeah. (to kids) Want to play that game we were playing before?  You know, I think you got it up to five.  I was ahead of you. 
 Please don't wash your hands in the sink. 
 Where should I wash them? 
 Use the bathroom. 
 What's the difference... 
 That's for food. 
 I don't think I can do this...  I want to stand by my husband...  I really do, Jeffrey.  But I don't think I can do this anymore.  I am so sorry... 
 Can we talk about this when I get back? 
 Yes...Jeffrey. 
 Now, what this one is, is a temporary restraining order, a gag order, issued by a Kentucky court. 
 Good to meet you, Dr. Wigand. 
 Mike's our Attorney General down here. (to Moore) I was just explaining to Jeff, they got a Kentucky court to issue a gag order to stop his deposition today. 
 Right. 
 Now, they tried to get the Mississippi Court to honor it, but the judge threw it out... (to Jeffrey) However, for you, there is a more perilous effect to the Kentucky gag order... 
 (after a beat) Dr. Wigand, you do understand what could happen, don't you? 
 I'm not free to testify...here...? 
 That's right.  If you violate the Kentucky order, when you step foot back in Kentucky, they can find you in contempt and they can incarcerate you. And you ought to know that. 
 Jail? 
 Possibly, yes.  That is one of the possible consequences of your testifying here today.  That's right... 
 How does one..."go...to...jail?"  What does my family do?  Go on welfare?  If my wife has to work?  Who's going to look after the kids?  Put food on the table? My children need me.  If I'm not teaching...there's no medical...no medical...even on co-pay, that's like... Tuition... 
 Dr. Wigand, listen, you may not be able to do this thing.  As I understand from Dick, you're our key witness.  And, I hope you don't withdraw.  I guess we'd all understand if you did... (at watch) Guys, I've got to go.  I'm gonna be late for court.  I'll see y'all a little later.  Dr. Wigand, good luck. 
 I know what you're facing, Jeff.  And, I think I know how you're feeling... 
 You attract a crowd. 
 (smiles, wry) Yeah, great. 
 I heard about the Kentucky gag order... 
 I don't know what to do. 
 
 (into phone) Hold on a second... (seeing Motley enter; to Jr. Lawyer) Would you please ask Mr. Motley if he expects his witness to appear or not...? 
 (severely conflicted) I can't seem to find...the criteria to decide.  It's too big a decision to make without being resolved...in my own mind. 
 Maybe things have changed... 
 What's changed? 
 (unsure) You mean...since this morning? 
 No.  I mean since whenever... 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) Fuck it.  Let's go to court. 
 (to unseen staff) Dr. Wigand would like to leave now. 
 Okay, Jeff, I'm going to sit you down at that table over there.  I'm going to start as fast as possible.  I don't want to give them a chance to get another restraining order, okay?  Let's go. 
 Good luck, Doc. 
 Please stand.  Raise your right hand... Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? 
 I do. 
 You may be seated. 
 You understand, Dr. Wigand, you are under oath.  This is a sworn deposition. There's no judge.  It's not a trial. (understatement of the century) Will you state your name for the record. 
 (after a beat) Jeffrey S. Wigand. 
 Got any idea what's going on in there? 
 No, I don't have a clue. 
 That is correct. 
 In other words, it acts as a drug? 
 Object to the form of the question! 
 It acts as a drug on the body? 
 Object to the form! 
 It acts as a... 
 Object! 
 There an echo in here?  Your objection's been recorded.  She typed it into her little machine over there.  It's on the record.  So now I'll proceed with my deposition of my witness.  Does it act as a drug? 
 (shouts) Dr. Wigand.  I am instructing you... (to Wigand) ...not to answer that question in accordance to the terms of the contractual obligations undertaken by you not to disclose any information about your work at the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company.  And in accordance with the force and effect of the temporary restraining order that has been entered against you to by the court in the State of Kentucky!  That means you don't talk! (beat) Mr. Motley, we have rights, here... 
 (explodes) Oh, you got rights and lefts!  Ups and downs and middles!  So what?!  You don't get to instruct anything around here! This is not North Carolina, not South Carolina nor Kentucky.  This is the sovereign State of Mississippi's proceeding.  Wipe that smirk off your face!  Dr. Wigand's deposition will be part of this record.  And I'm going to take my witness' testimony!  Whether the hell you like it or not! (to Wigand) Answer the question, Dr... 
 (slams it home) Yes.  It produces a physiological response, which meets the definition of a drug!  Nicotine is associated with impact, with satisfaction.  It has a pharmacological effect that crosses the blood-brain barrier intact... 
 Thank you, Doctor.  Thank you. 
 (on monitor) "Part of the reason I'm here is I felt that their representation clearly, at least within..." 
 Run that Sandefur piece on "nicotine's not addictive."  Run that on-camera. Then cut right to Wigand with "I believe they perjured..."  Then go wide to the CEOs all taking the oath.  Back on Jeff and play the pause after the word "felt" on the B-side... 
 (leaving) ...helluva show, Mike.  Explosive material. 
 (to Mike) It went great in Mississippi, Mike. 
 Good. 
 I heard Wigand's deposition got sealed. 
 Yeah, they argued he was going to reveal the secret formula of "Kools" to the world. (seriously) "Sealed" doesn't hurt Scruggs' litigation, and since we're the only ones with the story, I believe we're sitting on an exclusive. 
 I like that... 
 Corporate has some questions.  We've got a meeting at Black Rock first thing in the morning. 
 When's the air date? 
 (to Lowell) Excuse me, Lowell.  Sharon's on line 3. 
 Tell her I'll call her back in ten. 
 Here we go. 
 Shall I send for coffee?  Sorry I'm late. 
 No, no, we're fine... 
 Are you sure? 
 Interfering?  That's what we do. 
 I think what we're trying to tell you is that it happens all the time.  This is a news organization.  People are always telling us things they shouldn't.  We have to verify if it's true and in the public interest...  And if it is, we air it. 
 After we corroborate it.  That's why we've never lost a lawsuit and run a classy show. (impatient, now) Anything else? 
 And "60 Minutes'" verification is exact. And precise.  And I don't think it would hurt to make sure you're right...on this one. 
 Why?  You think we have liability? What's the CBS News' position, Eric? 
 There's a possibility, it's rather remote... 
 But one we have to check on, Mike.  I've retained outside counsel to do exactly that.  On a segment, I might add, that's already rife with problems... 
 What does that mean?  "Rife with -- ?" 
 I'm told unusual promises were made to Wigand. 
 No, only that we would hold the story until it was safe for him... 
 (cuts in) And, I'm told there are questions as to our "star witness'" veracity. 
 (trying to control his anger) His "veracity" was good enough for the State of Mississippi. 
 (historic) Our standards have to be higher than anyone else's, because we are the standard...for everyone else... 
 (wry) Well, as a "standard"...I'll hang with "is the guy telling the truth?" 
 Well, with tortious interference, I'm afraid...the greater the truth, the greater the damage. 
 Come again? 
 They own the information he's disclosing. The truer it is, the greater the damage to them.  If he lied, he didn't disclose their information.  And the damages are smaller. 
 Is this "Alice in Wonderland"? 
 You said "on this one."  What about "this one"? 
 (familiar, seductive) If this holds up, and it very well may not, Mike...but, if it did.  And we aired this segment?  And CBS was sued by Brown & Williamson?  I think we could be at grave risk. 
 (a beat) How grace? 
 (and she's been waiting for this) Well, at the end of the day...because of your segment...the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company...could own CBS. 
 Is CBS corporate telling CBS News do not go to air with this story? 
 You're getting ahead of yourself.  We're all in this together.  We're all CBS. We'll find out soon.  Thank you, gentlemen. 
 "Tortious interference"?  Sounds like a disease caught by a radio. 
 (to Mike) Lunch? 
 Sure. (to Lowell) Don't worry, we call the shots around here. 
 (into phone) Debbie, it's me.  I want you to check some filings and give me John Wilson's number at Bear-Stern. 
 What now? 
 Kluster's coming over. 
 Hello, Lowell, Mike, Don. 
 So, what happened to Ms. Caperelli's checking with outside counsel first, all that crap? 
 That's happening.  And, hopefully we won't have to use the alternate, but we should have it in the can. 
 I'm not touching my film... 
 I'm afraid you are. 
 No, I'm not... 
 We're doing this with or without you, Lowell.  If you like, I can assign another producer to edit your show... 
 Since when has the paragon of investigative journalism allowed lawyers to determine the news content on "60 Minutes"? 
 It's an alternate version.  So what if we have an alternate version?  And I don't think her being cautious is so damned unreasonable. 
 (wry) So, now, if you'll excuse me, gentlemen, Mr. Rather's been complaining about his chair again. (laughter) 
 (mild) Before you go... 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) I discovered this.  SEC filing... (he gets their attention) For the sale of the CBS Corporation to Westinghouse Corporation. 
 What? 
 Yeah, I heard rumors. 
 It's not a rumor.  It's a sale. (rhetorical answer) If Tisch can unload CBS for $81 a share to Westinghouse and then is suddenly threatened with a multibillion-dollar lawsuit from Brown & Williamson, that could screw up the sale, could it not? 
 (serene) And what are you implying? 
 (to Kluster) I'm not implying.  I'm quoting.  More vested interests... (reading from SEC filing) "Persons Who Will Profit From This Merger... (beat) Ms. Helen Caperelli, General Counsel of CBS News, 3.9 million.  Mr. Eric Kluster, President of CBS News, 1.4 million..." 
 Are you suggesting that she and Eric are influenced by money? 
 Oh, no, of course they're not influenced by money.  They work for free.  And you are a Volunteer Executive Producer. 
 CBS does not do that.  And, you're questioning our journalistic integrity?! 
 No, I'm questioning your hearing!  You hear "reasonable" and "tortious interference."  I hear...  "Potential Brown & Williamson lawsuit jeopardizing the sale of CBS to Westinghouse."  I hear...  "Shut the segment down.  Cut Wigand loose.  Obey orders.  And fuck off...!"  That's what I hear. 
 You're exaggerating! 
 I am?  You pay me to go get guys like Wigand, to draw him out.  To get him to trust us, to get him to go on television. I do.  I deliver him.  He sits.  He talks.  He violates his own fucking confidentiality agreement.  And he's only the key witness in the biggest public health reform issue, maybe the biggest, most-expensive corporate-malfeasance case in U.S. history.  And Jeffrey Wigand, who's out on a limb, does he go on television and tell the truth?  Yes. Is it newsworthy?  Yes.  Are we gonna air it?  Of course not.  Why?  Because he's not telling the truth?  No.  Because he is telling the truth.  That's why we're not going to air it.  And the more truth he tells, the worse it gets! 
 You are a fanatic.  An anarchist.  You know that?  If we can't have a whole show, then I want half a show rather than no show.  But oh, no, not you.  You won't be satisfied unless you're putting the company at risk! 
 C'mon, what are you?  And are you a businessman?  Or are you a newsman?! Because that happens to be what Mike and I do for a living... 
 Lowell. 
 (runs on) "Put the corporation at risk"...?  Give me a fucking break! 
 Lowell. 
 These people are putting our whole reason for doing what we do...on the line! 
 Lowell! 
 What? 
 I'm with Don on this. 
 What's wrong? 
 They're killing the Wigand interview... 
 What?! 
 They're pretending it's process. Bullshit, it's foregone. 
 (beat) What are you and Mike going to do? 
 I'm alone on this... 
 (beat) Oh, baby... 
 SHARON (CONT'D) (after a beat) Jeffrey Wigand... 
 Jeffrey... 
 There is - there is no family. 
 Liane has filed for divorce... 
 And, so, I moved out...  I see the girls a couple of days a week... 
 (sarcastic) Our favorite hotel, honey...  I checked into Room 930.  Odd choice?  Huh? 
 (after a beat) I don't know how to say this, Jeff, except to just say it right out, so I'll say it.  They do not want to air it. 
 (stops) What?! 
 B & W may have threatened litigation... CBS is on the block... (a beat) But you, I mean, I know how... 
 No. 
 No?  No, what? 
 I do not think that you "know" for me...what it is to walk in my shoes... (beat) ...for my kids to have seen it...for them to know why I've put them through what I did...the public airing of that...the testament to why I did what I did...you're telling me is not going to see the light of day. 
 Jeff... 
 ...seven months after we were married we found out that I had multiple sclerosis... 
 P.I.'S VOICE (OVER) (on television) And, you had a daughter, Diane, with him, is that correct? 
 (on television) Yes, in 1973. 
 (on the phone, whispering) ...come on, Tommy Sandefur told me himself, he's not gonna allow Brown & Williamson to be demonized to the American public, so I told Peter Jennings and I...hold on... 
 P.I.'S VOICE (OVER) (on television) Would it be fair to say when he divorced you he left you in a precarious situation?  You had multiple sclerosis; you had a small child to raise. 
 (ignoring that part; to staff) Mention that part in the executive summary and in the chapters "First Wife" and "Estrangement of Daughter." (beat; into phone) So, I was telling Pete, I said, "You've been taken in by this guy... 
 (on television) Yes... (beat) But you have to understand, the divorce was something that we both wanted... 
 He's a total bullshit artist.  He's a shoplifter.  He's a convicted shoplifter. 
 (after a beat, cold) So, what are you going to do? 
 Well, what do you think I'm going to do? Quit in protest?  I'm not going to do that. 
 (surprised) You're taking "no" for an answer? 
 No.  I'm not going to take "no" for an answer.  No. 
 Then what are you going to do? 
 I'm staying right here.  Doing my job. Fighting to get my show on the air.  You don't like it?  Hey, I'll tell you what...fire my ass... 
 End up in a high-profile lawsuit with Lowell, the First Amendment martyr?  I don't think so. (laughs) Take a look at this...  This is a summary of a dossier that's being prepared. 
 What was that about? 
 Get me Wigand. 
 Sure. 
 ...fuck is this?  Fuck! 
 (outraged) Well, how is that any of your business?! That is not something that you people need to know! 
 (frustrated) Oh, you know what we do or do not need to know?  Since when have you become a media expert? 
 (upset) What do you want to do, Lowell, look up my ass, too...! 
 Oh, my God. 
 Jeff!  Wake the fuck up!  Everybody is on the line here.  If they can catch you in a lie, they can paint everything with that brush.  Do you understand? Everything you say! 
 I told the truth! 
 Everything...you...say!  And I can't defend you, man, with one hand tied behind my back!  Because you keep from me...what they can discover.  And they will discover everything!  Believe me. 
 (meaning his first wife and their child, upset) ...I was young.  I was young...confused...  We didn't handle it the right way... 
 (after a beat) She sued you for back payments of child support? 
 She did not sue me.  We had a dispute over money...  I settled it, she dropped the complaint... (angry) Any other questions? 
 Yes.  Did you lie about being on the American Judo Team in the Olympics? 
 What? 
 Some public relations guy got a hold of a tape of an interview...where you're saying you were on the American Judo Team in the Olympics...? 
 (explosive) What kind of shit is this?  I was not on the team, I sparred with the Olympic Team...okay? 
 Alright...the ABC Telemarketing Company? 
 
...? 
 ABC Telemarketing Company. 
 (the absurdity) A can opener!  A $39.95 can opener.  I cancelled payment...  It was junk. (sarcastic) You ever bounce a check, Lowell?  You ever look at another woman's tits?  You ever cheat a little on your taxes? (a beat, angry) Whose life, if you look at it under a microscope, doesn't have any flaws...? 
 That's the whole point, Jeffrey.  That's the whole point.  Anyone's.  Everyone's. They are gonna look under every rock, dig up every flaw, every mistake you've ever made.  They are going to distort and exaggerate everything you've ever done, man.  Don't you understand? 
 (shouts) What does this have to do with my testimony? 
 That's not the point. 
 What does this have to do with my testimony?!  I told the truth!  It's valid and true and provable! 
 That's not the fucking point, whether you told the truth or not!  Hello...? 
 I told the truth...  I told the truth. 
 (after a beat) I've got to teach class.  I've got to go. I've got to teach class. 
 (undaunted) And I've got to refute every fucking accusation made in this report before The Wall Street Journal runs. (a beat) I am trying to protect you, man! 
 (after a beat, the killer) Well, I hope you improve your batting average. 
 Hello? 
 You caught me in a news meeting. 
 Well, are you or are you not, Charlie? 
 You bet we are.  And I can't talk to you now. 
 We gotta hook up. 
 Sure.  Where? 
 P.J.'s. 
 I'll be there. 
 Yeah, I got it.  500 pages of it.  They looked in every corner of this guy's life...from a spousal abuse charge, to shoplifting, to a traffic ticket he got once for running a red light.  It's Terry Lenzner's outfit, IGI.  Jack, listen to me.  Their strategy:  discredit this guy, ruin his reputation in The Wall Street Journal, and then nobody will ever listen to what he's got to say about tobacco. He's dead.  Unless I can get this thing knocked down. 
 To make it even a little more attractive, I don't know if you're ever gonna get paid. 
 Is there any truth to any of it? 
 That's a good question.  "Is there any truth to any of it?"  I doubt it. 
 What's their deadline? 
 Soon. 
 Fax me the summary. 
 That's great, Jack. 
 Hey, Lowell. 
 How are you, Jim? 
 Hey, listen, I hear you guys are sitting on something sensational over there. 
 Really?  Hi, Joan. 
 Hi, baby. 
 Catch you later. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) When's your deadline? 
 Monday. 
 Push it. 
 What?  Forget it. 
 It's a smear campaign, Charlie. 
 It's drawn from a selectively circulated... 
 (cuts in) Oh, it's real selective...about as hard to get a hold of as the Manhattan phone book. 
 Well, it's authoritative and is overwhelmingly documented. 
 And it's bullshit.  And if I'm right, are you going to put the Journal's reputation behind a story that's going to blow up in your face? 
 I'll take a look at what you got.  But I'm not moving any deadlines 'cause you say so. 
 Yeah.  Catch you later. 
 Officer Murabchick? 
 How do you do? 
 Fine, thank you.  I'm doing a background check.  Mind if I sit down? 
 Your honor, could I have a word with you? You presided in a dispute over support payments... 
 Jeffrey Wigand?  Yeah, I cited him. 
 (on monitor) CBS is under criticism, because the CBS News program "60 Minutes" will not be presenting an interview... 
 What the hell are you doing? 
 What does it look like I'm doing?  I'm editing. 
 No, not that.  I'm talking about the Associated Press.  They got this story that we pulled this interview and they talked to Mike and I.  Did you tell them that we were lying? 
 No.  I should have.  I told them I disagreed with you, Mike and Kluster that this segment is as good as the original. I'm not lying for you.  I'm not gonna shut up for you.  Not on any of it. 
 Hey!  I'm not going to fire you, okay? Take a vacation.  Now! 
 I've been banished.  In lieu of being fired. 
 (disinterested) I took off on Tisch.  I took off on corporate.  They'll know they're not going to see everything on Sunday night... 
 I don't know.  How does that get Wigand on the air? 
 (goes up) Do me a favor, will you?  Spare me, for God's sake.  Get in the real world.  What do you think?  I'm going to resign in protest?  To force it on the air?  The answer is "no."  I don't plan to spend the end of my days wandering in the wilderness of National Public Radio. (beat) That decision I've already made. 
 (from corridor; to Mike) It just started, Mike... 
 It was a time consideration, Mike... 
 Time?  Bullshit!  You corporate lackey! Who told you your incompetent little fingers had the requisite skills to edit me!  I'm trying to Band-Aid a situation, here, and you're too dim to... 
 (interrupts, familiar) Mike...  Mike...  Mike... 
 "Mike?" 
 Here. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) These are their leads, their sources.  I want you to have your reporters... 
 Suein Hwang and Milo Geyelin. 
 Have them make their own calls.  They'll find that these sources have a different story than the one that's in the dossier... (demands) Push the deadline, Charlie... 
 I'll push it for a week.  Let Milo and Suein go through it. 
 What do you want to buy him for a gift? 
 He's into kind of little cars, that... 
 That remote control thing? 
 Yeah. 
 Alright, we'll do that tomorrow. 
 Mom. 
 Yes, baby? 
 There's Dad, on TV. 
 And in local news, WLKO Louisville has gained access to a five-hundred-page dossier on former Brown & Williamson research head Jeffrey Wigand detailing charges of spousal abuse, shoplifting... 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...thousands of documents from inside the tobacco industry have surfaced over the past year, documents that appear to confirm what a former..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...US Surgeon General and the current head of the Food and Drug Administration have been saying.  We learned of..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...a tobacco insider who could tell us whether or not the tobacco industry has been leveling with the public..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...that insider was formerly a highly- placed executive with a tobacco company..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...but we cannot broadcast what critical information about tobacco, addiction and public health he might be able to offer. Why?  Because he had to sign a confidentiality agreement with the tobacco company he worked for..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "The management of CBS has told us that knowing he had that agreement..." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "...if were to broadcast an interview with him, CBS could be faced with a multibillion-dollar lawsuit..." 
 (on "60 Minutes," from the interview with Wigand...) "The fact is, we are not allowed even to mention his name or the name of the company he worked for and, of course, we cannot show you his face...  '...and your confidentiality agreement with...(blip) is still in force?'" 
 (on "60 Minutes") "So, what are they gonna do?  Sue you for making this appearance?" 
 "I would bet on it." 
 (on "60 Minutes") "The former executive has reason to bet on being sued, for major cigarette manufacturers..." 
 Yeah. 
 You disappeared on me.  How long you staying? 
 (absurd) I disappeared on you? 
 (meaning the show) Alright.  What did you think? 
 (after a beat) I think it was a disgrace. 
 Alright.  Get me the manager's office... 
 No, no.  Don't call the police! (urgent) Just tell him I'm on the phone with you...  My name is Lowell Bergman... Just tell him that. 
 Did he hear you? 
 What about now? 
 Hello, can you hear me now? 
 (alarmed) What's happening?! 
 (on the cell phone, shouts, urgent) Alright, now listen to me.  I want you - I want you to tell him, in these words: get on the fucking phone...! 
 No, you can.  Tell him to get on the fucking phone! 
 (on the phone, angry) You manipulated me into this...! 
 That's bullshit, Jeff! 
 You greased the rails! 
 I greased the rails for a guy who wanted to say yes.  I helped him to say yes. Alright.  You're not a robot, Jeff! That's all.  You got a mind of your own, don't you? 
 (running on) "Up to you, Jeffrey.  That's the power you have, Jeffrey.  Vital insider information the American public need to know."  Lowell Bergman, the hot show who never met a source he couldn't turn around. 
 (running on) I fought for you...and I still fight for you. 
 You fought for me...?! (running on) ...you manipulated me...into where I am now...staring at the Brown & Williamson Building.  It's all dark.  Except the 10th floor!  That's the legal department. That's where they fuck with my life! 
 (beat) Jeffrey, where you going with this?  So where you goin'? (quiet) You are important to a lot of people, Jeffrey.  You think about that.  You think about them. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) I'm running out of heroes, man... (after a beat) Guys like you are in short supply. 
 (a beat, wry) Yeah, guys like you, too. 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) (after a beat) Where are you, anyway? 
 I'm on a leave of absence.  Forced vacation. 
 (a rare laugh, his sarcasm) You try and have a good time. 
 (droll) Yeah.  Yeah, I will. 
 "I'm Lowell Bergman, I'm from '60 Minutes.'"  You know, you take the "60 Minutes" out of that sentence, nobody returns your phone call.  Maybe Wigand's right.  Maybe I'm hooked.  What am I hooked on?  The rush?  "60 Minutes"? What the hell for?  Infotainment.  It's so fucking useless, all of it. 
 (a beat) So, it's a big country with a free press. You can go work somewhere else. 
 Free press?  Press is free...for anyone who owns one.  Larry Tisch has a free press. 
 Get some perspective, Lowell. 
 I got perspective. 
 No, you do not. 
 From my perspective, what's been going on and what I've been doing is ridiculous. It's half-measures. 
 You're not listening. (beat) Really know what you're going to do before you do it. 
 Patch him through. 
 The Governor of Mississippi is suing his own Attorney General...to abandon litigation against Big Tobacco... 
 Oh, good... 
 (after a beat) But, now that the version without Jeff ran...what's the chance of getting his interview on the air...? (beat) Hello? 
 Yeah, I'm here. 
 What chance is there of getting Jeff's interview on the air...? 
 (after a beat) ...I'd be lying to you if I did not tell you how important it was in the court of public opinion... 
 (a beat) ...and I'd be lying to you if I didn't tell you, I'm about out of moves, Dick... 
 All right.  See you... 
 Hi.  So, what are you folks doing here in Lincoln? 
 (affable) Geology survey. 
 (nods) Geology.  Yeah?  Really? 
 How about you? 
 (direct) I work for CBS News. 
 (after a beat) Oh, yeah? 
 Just ran into two of your "geologists." Geologists whose hands aren't all chewed up...? 
 Do not...screw this up.  We are a week away from an arrest... 
 So, I'll hold it...  And... 
 How long? 
 You got a deal. (hangs up) 
 (in CLOSE-UP) "I believe that nicotine is not addictive." 
 (in matching CLOSE-UP) "I believe Mr. Sandefur perjured himself...  Because I watched those testimonies very carefully." 
..." 
 WIGAND (CONT'D) "...that their representation..." 
 Jim, it's Lowell. 
 Hey!  Where are you? 
 (sarcastic) You mean, "60 Minutes" is letting CBS corporate decide what is or is not news? (beat) What's Wallace think about this, or Hewitt, or...? 
 How prominent?  What kind of placement? 
 Oh, c'mon, Lowell.  This is The New York Times.  I don't know... 
 Well, until you do, all I can tell you is what you already know...they will not air an interview. 
 Call me back in ten. 
 Hi.  What time is it? 
 That I know.  When are you coming back? 
 I can't get out of here til mid-morning. I'll be in tomorrow night... (beat) Listen, could you call a number for me, it's in Mississippi... 
 Okay.  Hold on a second...  What is it? 
 Hello? (beat) 
 Alright, Lowell.  Page one.  Editorial's interested.  Let's talk. 
 Here's how it works.  You ask me questions.  I tell you if you're wrong. 
 Yeah? 
 Why? 
 You ready...? 
 Did I tell you you were wrong? 
 Did I get you up? 
 No, I usually sit around in my hotel room, dressed like this at 5:30 in the morning, sleepy look on my face. 
 How many shows have we done?  Huh? C'mon, how many? 
 Oh, lots. 
 Yeah, that's right. 
 But in all that time, Mike, did you ever get off a plane, walk into a room, and find that a source for a story changed his mind?  Lost his heart?  Walked out on us?  Not one fucking time!  You want to know why? 
 I see a rhetorical question on the horizon. 
 I'm going to tell you why.  Because when I tell someone I'm going to do something, I deliver. 
 Oh, how fortunate I am to have Lowell Bergman's moral tutelage to point me down the shining path.  To show me the way. 
 Oh, please, Mike... 
 (beat) Give me a break! 
 No, you give me a break!  I never left a source hung out to dry, ever.  Abandoned. Not 'til right fucking now!  When I came on this job, I came with my word intact. I'm gonna leave with my word intact. Fuck the rules of the game!  Hell, you're supposed to know me, Mike.  What the hell did you expect?  You expect me to lie down?  Back off?  What, get over it? 
 In the real world, when you get to where I am, there are other considerations... 
 Like what?  Corporate responsibility? What, are we talking celebrity here? 
 I'm not talking celebrity, vanity, CBS. I'm talking about when you're nearer the end of your life than the beginning. Now, what do you think you think about then?  The future?  "In the future I'm going to do this?  Become that?"  What "future"?  No.  What you think is:  how will I be regarded in the end?  After I'm gone. 
 Mike...in my... 
 (low) You and I have been doing this together for fourteen years. 
 (troubled) They conclude most of it seems pretty unsubstantiated... (looking at him, sickened) You're full of shit, John. 
 Yeah. 
 ...front page.  There's a picture of Wigand.  Article's entitled, "Getting Personal," by-lined to Suein Hwang and Milo Geyelin.  Wait, hold on a second, Lowell. 
 Good. 
 The sub-heading is, "Brown & Williamson Has a 500-Page Dossier Attacking Chief Critic." It quotes Richard Scruggs calling it "the worst kind of an organized smear campaign against a whistle-blower." 
 The news division has been vilified in The New York Times, in print, on television, for caving to corporate interests! 
 (shouting) No, you fucked you!  Don't invert stuff! Big Tobacco tried to smear Wigand; you bought it.  The Wall Street Journal, here, not exactly a bastion of anti- capitalist sentiment, refutes Big Tobacco's smear campaign as the lowest form of character assassination!  And now, even now, when every word of what Wigand has said on our show is printed, the entire deposition of his testimony in a court of law in the State of Mississippi, the cat totally out of the bag, you're still standing here debating! Don, what the hell else...do you need? 
 Mike, you tell him... 
 (simply) You fucked up, Don. 
 (recovers fast) Hey, it's old news!  Stick with me.  Like always, we'll be okay.  These things have a half-life of fifteen minutes... 
 No, that's fame.  Fame has a fifteen- minute half-life... (droll) Infamy...lasts a little longer. 
 Okay, so let's get back to it.  Alright, now, what we saw there was... 
 (into phone) They cancelled the six o'clock. (beat) I don't know why.  I'm on the 8:10.  I should be home...9:30.  I'll see you then.  Love ya'.  Bye... 
 "CBS Management wouldn't let us broadcast our original story and our interview with Wigand because they were worried about the possibility of a multi-billion dollar lawsuit against us for tortious interference...  But now things have changed." 
 (on television) "...in my opinion, is an industry that has perpetrated the biggest fraud on the American public in history." 
 (to Wigand) "You wish you hadn't blown the whistle?" 
 (on television, hesitating) "There are times...I wish I hadn't done it.  But there are times that I feel compelled to do it..." "I've - if you asked me if I would do it again or if it's - do I think it's worth it.  Yeah.  I think it's worth it." 
 I promised you a three-hour heads- up...well, here it is.  Have a camera crew standing by in Helena, Montana on Tuesday and I'll give you a three-hour head start.  Alright?  By the way, that was a hell of a good show tonight... 
 (nods, trustworthy) Thank you, Bill. 
 (understated) You won. 
 Yeah? (a beat) What did I win? 
 "Reporting from CBS World News headquarters in New York, good afternoon. There has been a major break in the case of the so-called 'Unabomber.'  CBS News has learned that a remote homesite outside Lincoln, Montana has been under FBI surveillance..." 
 Thanks for this.  You know, we beat everybody.  ABC, NBC, CNN. 
 That Canada story?  Still interest you? 
 (nods) Everything interests me. 
 LOWELL (CONT'D) I quit, Mike. 
 Bullshit. 
 I did?  What do I tell a source on the next tough story?  Hang in with us. You'll be fine...maybe? 
 A: 
 #1: 
 #2: 
 #3: 
 #4: 
