. MARIE (quietly): Please forgive us. MARTIN (following her lead): Please forgive us.. Then the pastor speaks very quietly, without turning to the two children: 
. RUDOLPH: Is she dead too? 
. XENIA: Yes. She's dead too. But that was a long time ago. Both remain SILENT. In the meantime it has grown dark in the kitchen. Suddenly, Rudolph brushes away his plate off the table with an angry movement, and turns away from Xenia. The plate shatters on the floor. At first Xenia is stunned, paralyzed. Then she starts to sob, but tries to hide it from her brother. 
: I... FARMER: Go and cut off his head of with your scythe. Sure, that'll bring your mother back to life. He turns away from Franz and keeps on walking. The others follow. After a few steps (softly): I think our father loved our mother. Suddenly the farmer stops and screams, almost crying with fury and despair: FARMER: Shut up! CLOSE ANGLE: Paul. He was listening carefully the whole time. He looks at the father. Then, lowers his eyes. NARRATOR: After these two days in July, life in the village returned to what it had always been... 
. FIRST FARMHAND: All over. Front and backside. 27 
. 
. DOCTOR (calls several times): Rudi? He throws an ironical inquiring look at Xenia. Xenia shrugs her shoulders, clueless: 
 There's nobody. They go into the kitchen KITCHEN. Nobody. The look under the kitchen table, in the pantry. Nobody. 
: I heard you even wanted to visit me at the hospital. And now you lock yourself in?. The doctor looks shortly at Xenia who's carrying the luggage upstairs. Then he keeps on talking to Rudolph: All right. Then, I don't want to see you either. I'm going away now. You can stay in the toilet, if you want. He goes down the few steps to the entrance, waits a moment and then leaves the house. 
. DOCTOR: Has she taken good care of you? XENIA: Yes.. The doctor turns to Xenia: DOCTOR: How old are you now? XENIA: Fourteen. The doctor looks at her, laughs silently and shakes his head. Again he looks out on the fields. After a while he says: DOCTOR: It's amazing how much you look like your mother. Xenia remains silent. Suddenly she whispers: 
. MIDWIFE: It was   difficult    with    the    children, without you. DOCTOR: I know. MIDWIFE: He doesn't like me. DOCTOR: Who? MIDWIFE: Rudi. DOCTOR (after a pause): He's at a difficult age. MIDWIFE: Actually not.. Then: They're always at a difficult age. DOCTOR (more to himself, with a faint smile): Yes. 
. MIDWIFE: You didn't miss me. DOCTOR: Come on. What are you saying?! MIDWIFE: Nothing. I said it because it's the truth. 
. DOCTOR: There's   nothing   like   a   nice    dose   of self-hate. MIDWIFE: What? DOCTOR: Nothing. Forget it. 
. How long has the window been open? STEWARD: Difficult to say. My wife nursed him at about one o'clock. When she came back, it was around half past two. At that time it was icy cold in this room. DOCTOR: And the baby didn't cry? STEWARD: No. The children were upstairs and didn't hear anything either. They have reached the living room where Liesl, Georg and Ferdinand get up as he comes in. DOCTOR (to the children): He's doing all right, considering the circumstances. We have to wait. The children seem worried. To calm them the doctor adds: For now we'll have to wait. The steward has gone to the sideboard. STEWARD: Can I offer you something to warm you up? DOCTOR: No, thanks. I'm overloaded with work. When one has been away for so long... STEWARD: Georg! At a sign of the father, Georg jumps up and gets the doctor's coat and hat from outside. In the meantime, the father keeps on chatting with the doctor: And how is your arm doing? DOCTOR: It's all right. Everything will be fine in two or three weeks. STEWARD: That must be terrible, I imagine. You probably feel like half a man when you can't use your arm properly. Georg has come back with the hat and the coat, and hands them to the doctor, DOCTOR: Thank you. The steward helps him with his coat because of his bad arm. 49 
. LIESL (to Ferdinand): When did you go down to see Father? Down in his office. FERDINAND: Why? LIESL: Just asking. 
. Well. And why are you so focused on that girl? She's almost still a child. You could almost be her father. SCHOOLTEACHER (smiles): I'm thirty-one. FATHER (grinning): Well, you can still handle what matters. MOTHER (embarrassed): Father! Eva and the schoolteacher don't know where to look. FATHER: Let's be serious: do you know whether she's willing to get married. She's still a child. She hasn't seen anything of the world. To Eva: Say something. Do you want him? Eva wishes the earth would engulf her. FATHER: Come on. Don't make such a fuss. He walked all the way over through the fresh snow. MOTHER: Why don't you leave her alone.         Of course, she wants him. Can't you feel that?! FATHER: How can I? If she keeps her mouth shut! Eva jumps up and runs out, so as not to burst into tears out of shame. The mother follows her, shaking her head disapprovingly at the father. The schoolteacher stands up, as Eva ran out. He'd rather follow her, but has to remain polite toward the father. The father says calmly: 
. SCHOOLTEACHER says: Did your father tell...? EVA: Yes. 
. SCHOOLTEACHER: Is that all right with you? 
. EVA: Is that all right with you, sir? SCHOOLTEACHER (smiles): Don't be so formal with me. Eva looks up. Their eyes meet. Then she takes his hand in her hand. They remain seated without saying a word. 
. MIDWIFE (keeps on speaking softly): Why did this only occur to you now? DOCTOR: According to you: when should it have occurred to me? At the hospital, I had forgotten how tiresome you were. One grows sentimental when one's in pain. 
. DOCTOR (tired): Get out. Why don't you get out. Don't you have any pride? MIDWIFE (equally tired): There's no room for any with you. DOCTOR: That's true. MIDWIFE: Aren't    you   afraid   that   I   might   do something silly? DOCTOR (laughs with disdain): Go ahead. At least that would surprise me. But be careful: it might be painful. MIDWIFE: I know. I'm ridiculous. You wouldn't care anyway. DOCTOR: Well... She looks at him. 
. The children are going wild. Brawling, sponge and chalk are flying through the air. Some are packing up their belongings, preparing to leave the classroom. In short, the way children behave once the lesson is over. Marie stands at the classroom door. She watches her classmates. The she looks through the door into the 
. It's empty. She comes back to the CLASSROOM, but stays at the door so that she can still keep an eye on the corridor. Apparently, she has been posted there as a lookout to warn against the possible arrival of a teacher. The shouting, laughter and brawling goes on. Suddenly, Marie sees the schoolteacher in the with her father. The two are having an animated conversation. Marie bursts into the CLASSROOM and closes the door to muffle the noise, then she shouts to her classmates: MARIE: Watch out, he's coming! But with all the shouting and laughter, her voice isn't heard by all of the pupils. The noise dies down, some of them stop misbehaving. Somebody picks up the sponge, and 62 
. The only light comes in from the living room. Rudolph comes down the stairs, wearing a nightshirt. RUDOLPH (softly): Xeni? He goes into the LIVING ROOM. It's empty. RUDOLPH (as above, anxiously): Xeni? Where are you? He goes into the KITCHEN. It's also empty. Rudolph is desperate. He starts to cry. Finally, he goes back to the and goes up the stairs to his room. On the stairway, he notices light coming from under the door of the practice. He goes back down the stairs down again and opens the door of the PRACTICE. In the bright light, sitting in front of each other, are the doctor and Xenia. The doctor has his back to Rudolph, so that we see Xenia's face first. She sits on 64 
. LIESL says: Last winter, before Putzl (she points to the baby) became ill, I dreamt that my brother put him beside the open window, so that he'd die. And the day the window was open and he caught a chill and he almost died. 
: Accept and drink! This is the blood of the New Testament, Shed for the forgiveness of your sins. 
. Marie, Martin, Paul, Georg, and a couple of other children are waiting at the classroom door. They remain silent. They're listening. 
 
 
 
. 
. BARON: May I ask you how you plan to do that? BARONESS (quiet): I don't know yet. But in any case, we're leaving this place. BARON (sarcastic): We. Look of the Baroness ("I don't need that kind of irony"). BARONESS: Yes. The maid enters to clear the rest of the table. It leads to a longer. The Baron drinks his brandy, goes to the window, waits. As the maid leaves the room, she looks at the Baroness inquiringly: 
. BARONESS (quietly): Do you think that will help us solve the problem? BARON: What? BARONESS: Your sarcasm. BARON: Actually, what is the problem that has to be solved? The Baroness looks at him, then gets up and wants to leave the room. BARON (suddenly yelling): You stay here!! She turns around, looks at him. BARON (softer): You only leave this room if I tell you to do so. She looks at him. BARONESS: Fine. She goes back to her chair and sits down. BARONESS: I wanted to spare you this, but you force me to do it: During our stay with Uncle Edoardo I fell in love with a man. He's from Lombardy, he works in the banking business and helped Uncle Edoardo in a financial matter. He courted me and was also very fond of the children. If Sigi has blossomed and grown so healthy, it's largely thanks to him. Despite all this, we came back. Because I feel committed to you. But I can't stand this place any longer. Not so much for me personally, though I can't say that life with you is exactly thrilling for a woman of my age. But if I leave this place, it's because I don't 83 
. BARON: Did you sleep with him? BARONESS   (laughing   scornfully):   You   don't understand anything. BARON: Did you sleep with him? 
. BARONESS (quietly): No. I didn't sleep with him. 
. BARON: You're lying, aren't you? The Baroness looks at him. Then she gets up, about to leave the room again. At the same moment, somebody KNOCKS at the door. After a short gesture of irritation BARON (irked): Come in! The steward appears. STEWARD: Good evening. Could I talk to you for a moment, Baron? BARON (annoyed): Can't it wait until tomorrow? STEWARD:   It's  really   urgent.   Normally,  I wouldn't have disturbed you so late. Annoyed, the Baron leaves the room with him. As he goes out, the steward greets the Baroness with a nod. Once the door is closed, she stops for a moment, goes to the window, and looks out pensive. She ends up going to the small bar and pours herself a glass of brandy. Her hands are shaking a little. She drinks from the glass, goes back to the window and looks out waiting, taking a sip from now and then. Below in the 
 
 opens again. The Baron comes back inside. He looks distressed. The Baroness doesn't know whether this is the result of her conversation, or of the message brought by the steward. The Baron paces a few steps, pondering, then glances at his wife. Finally, she asks BARONESS: What's going on? 
. Please! Lend me the bicycle. SCHOOLTEACHER: Why? What is going on? After hesitating a while MIDWIFE: I have to go to the police in town. I now know who committed all these crimes. SCHOOLTEACHER (flabbergasted): Who? MIDWIFE: Will you let me have the bicycle? SCHOOLTEACHER: Why don't you tell me? MIDWIFE: From now on I shall only talk to the police. I won't let them insult me (turning to the steward's house): As you just saw. SCHOOLTEACHER: Can't the doctor can lend you his horse? MIDWIFE: I don't know how to ride. The schoolteacher looks at her inquisitively, because he still doesn't understand what it's all about, but she doesn't respond, and says: 
. SCHOOLTEACHER: But can't       you   see   that   the shutters are closed. 
. 
. SCHOOLTEACHER: Go home now. Nobody said you could come in here. The children go out slowly. They open the wooden gate in the fence, and go out into the street. They're visibly embarrassed at being caught by the schoolteacher when they were doing something wrong. Some avoid the schoolteacher's eyes, while others mutter a greeting, as if they wanted to say goodbye, as they went away. The schoolteacher looks annoyed. As Marie steps out of the garden door, he says: SCHOOLTEACHER: You better go back home now, hurry. Marie doesn't seem to feel guilty at all. Again she greets him politely. MARIE: Good evening, Teacher. SCHOOLTEACHER (reluctantly): Good evening. The children go away. The schoolteacher also goes on his way. After a few steps he turns around and looks at the children, then walks on. 
. The pastor's wife and the schoolteacher stand before the closed front door. PASTOR'S WIFE: His daughter? Wasn't she with you at your school? SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes, she was. PASTOR'S WIFE: And she didn't say anything? The schoolteacher shakes his head. They both remain silent and pensive. 
 
. THE PASTOR'S WIFE: Don't you want to sit down? SCHOOLTEACHER (who hasn't thought of it): Yes. Perhaps. With pleasure. They   sit   down.   The  children   sit  opposite   the schoolteacher. PASTOR'S WIFE: Can I offer you something? , (smiling faintly): A cup of coffee? Like during the piano lessons First the schoolteacher wants to refuse, then he decides to accept so as to get rid of the woman, and be alone with the children. SCHOOLTEACHER: Yes, with pleasure. That's very kind of you. PASTOR'S WIFE: I'll be back in a minute. The schoolteacher turns to the children: SCHOOLTEACHER: Did you know that the Doctor was leaving Eichwald? Short. MARIE: No. SCHOOLTEACHER: But you don't seem surprised at my question. MARIE: Our mother told us when she came to fetch us. SCHOOLTEACHER:   And   Xenia   didn't    tell    you anything about it? MARIE: No. She looks at Martin who confirms it: MARTIN: No. SCHOOLTEACHER (incredulously): Not a word? It's very unusual for a child not to tell his classmates before going away on a trip. MARIE (unimpressed):   Xenia   never    talks   much about home. SCHOOLTEACHER: Well, that's something completely different?! 
. MARTIN: Yes. He isn't well. And since his mother is gone... we thought, we should go and pay him a visit. The schoolteacher realizes that he won't get any further this way. SCHOOLTEACHER: Did you ever ask yourselves who could have treated Hansi that way?. Then the schoolteacher adds: And Sigi? 
. And who tied the wire in the doctor's garden? And who set fire to the barn? Well?! 
. MARIE: Yes, of course we wondered. SCHOOLTEACHER: Well? MARIE: We discussed it with Father. He said it must be a sick person.. The schoolteacher doesn't know how to go on. SCHOOLTEACHER:    Sigi   was    with    you at Thanksgiving. And so was Hansi. 
. MARIE: I don't understand. With demonstrative helplessness she looks at the schoolteacher, then at her brother, and again at the schoolteacher: Shaking her head and shrugging her shoulders. SCHOOLTEACHER: What did they do to you? MARIE (doesn't seem to understand): Who? 
. Why do you ask us? 
. SCHOOLTEACHER:   You're  an   intelligent   girl, Marie. Don't try and play dumb. 
. MARIE: I don't understand you, Sir. You should talk with Father about this or with Mother. Shall I go get her? 
. 
