 I'm going to the movies To see the brighter side of life! I'm going to the movie Everything's gonna be alright! Forget all my troubles Put my own life on hold Let a studio tell me how I should view the world Where everything works out I love it that way I'm going to the movies The movies today! 
 Good morning South Park! It's five-thirty a.m. on Sunday!! Time to feed the horses and water the cows!! 
 (O.S.) KENNY! YOU'RE GONNA BE LATE FOR CHURCH!!! 
 Mph rmph rm! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Sit down, you can share some of your brother's waffle. 
 Kenny! The Terrance and Phillip movie is out! You wanna come?! 
 Mph rmph rm, rmph! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Kenny! Where're you going? 
 Mph mprh mprh rm! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER What do you mean you don't want to go to church? 
 Mrmph, rmph rmph rm rmph. 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Well fine, go ahead and miss church!! And then when you die and go to hell you can ANSWER TO SATAN!! 
 Say, where are you boys going? 
 We're going to the movies! To see the brighter side of life! Where everyone is beautiful And have their hair combed just right! 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rm! Mph rm rmph rm! Mprh rm rmph rm rm Rmph rm rmph rm rmph! 
 Have fun you rascals! 
 Hey, dudes... Aren't you supposed to go to church, Kenny? 
 Kyle, check it out. 
 OH MY GOD, DUDE!!! 
 No, Ike! You can't come with me! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Kyle, you take your little brother out to play with you! 
 Aw, ma!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Do as I say, Kyle! 
 Damn it!! 
 We're going to the movies To see the better side of life Where something interesting happens Every day and night! 
 In movies we can pretend That love is real and good always wins- 
 We can even make believe marriages last! 
 Spare a dollar? Spare a dollar? 
 I'm going to the movies! To see the brighter side of life! I'm going to the movies Everything's gonna be alright! Forget my troubles Put my own life on hold Let a studio tell me how to view the world! 
 Let's go get fat ass! 
 MOM! SOMEBODY'S AT THE DOOR! 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Look, Eric it's your little friends. 
 What the hell are you guys doing here? 
 Baba turtre bad! 
 Ooh! 
 We're going to the movies To see the better side of life! 
 Maybe there'll be pirates! Or a whole city burnin'! Maybe we'll see a monster Or, better yet, Uma Thurman! 
 We're going to the movies! Everything's gonna be okay! 
 Going to the movies! The movies today!!!!! 
 Can I get five tickets to Terrance and Phillip Asses of Fire, please? 
 No. 
 What'dya mean, no? 
 Terrance and Phillip Asses of Fire is rated 'R'. You kids can't get in. 
 The hell we can't! My money is just as good as any white person's! 
 You have to be accompanied by a parent or guardian. 
 But why? 
 Because this movie has naughty language, and it might make you kids start using bad words. 
 Listen you son of a bitch, if you don't let us in to see this movie I'm gonna kick you square in the nuts. 
 Sorry, Charlie. 
 Damn it! 
 Next, please? 
 This is terrible! This can't be happening!! 
 We HAVE to see this movie, dude! 
 Aw, screw it. It probably isn't all that good anyway. 
 Cartman! What the hell are you talking about?! You LOVE Terrance and Philiip! 
 Yeah, but the animation's all crappy - it probably can't sustain itself over ninety minutes. 
 Poo baba! 
 Wait! I've got an idea! 
 Uh, hi. I want five tickets to Terrance and Phillip Asses of Fire. 
 You realize this movie is rated R? It may not be appropriate for your little ones. 
 Oh. (Turning to boys) Hey, he says this movie isn't appropriate for you. 
 (Whispering) Look, homeless guy, if you don't want to buy us tickets, and NOT get your ten bucks and NOT go buy yourself a bottle of Vodka and not forget about how miserable your life is and not stop the voices in your head then go right ahead. 
 Five tickets please. 
 Purpre mama! 
 Be quiet, Ike! The movie's starting! 
 
!!! 
 Say Terrance, what did the Spanish Priest say to the Uranian gynecologist? 
 I don't know, Phillip, what? 
 ANGLE - BOYS 
 That was sweet! 
 Where do they come up with this stuff?! 
 How come Terrance and Phillip are so weird looking? 
 Cuz, dummy they're Canadian, just like Ike! 
 Oh. 
 Poo bada! 
 You're such a pigfucker, Phillip! 
 What?! Why would you call me a pigfucker?! 
 Well, let's see... First of all, you fuck pigs. 
 Oh yeah! 
 ANGLE - BOYS 
 Woa, dude! Did they say what I think they said? 
 Well, fuck my ass and call me a bitch, I just got a letter! 
 A letter from who, you shit sucking cock master? 
 It's from your mother. 
 My mother sent YOU a letter? What's it say? 
 It says 'Dear Terrance, please don't ever tell my son that I licked your hairy balls.' 
 Oh, you fucking ball whore! 
 Wow... Ball whore... 
 Listen, you donkey raping shit eater- 
 (To himself) Donkey raping shit eater. 
 Doky maping she deeder!!! 
 You'd fuck your uncle! 
 YOU'D fuck your uncle! 
 (Singing) Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka!! You're an asslicking, Ball sucking Unclefucka!! You're an Unclefucka, yes it's true Nobody fucks Uncles quite like you- 
 SHUT YOUR FUCKING FACE!! 
!!! YOU'RE the one that fucked your Uncle,!!! You don't eat, or sleep or mow the lawn You just fuck your Uncle all day long! 
 TERRANCE & PHILLIP Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka! You butt licking bastard Unclefucka! 
 You're an Unclefucka I must say! 
 You fucked YOUR Uncle yesterday! 
 TERRANCE & PHILLIP Unclefucka!  That's YOUUUUUUU!!!!! 
 Dude, that movie was fucking sweet! 
 You bet your fucking ass it was! 
 Fuck, dude, I wanna be just like Terrance and Phillip! 
 Hey wait a minute... Where's your guardian? 
 Huh? 
 I knew it! You PAID a homeless guy to get you in, didn't you! 
 Suck my balls. 
 Yeah, (Singing) Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka!! 
 Oh oh, I'm in trouble. 
 (Singing, fading off) You're an asslicking, ball sucking Unclefucka!! 
 Hey, where have you guys been all day? 
 Oh, nowhere... We just went out to go see the TERRANCE AND PHILLIP MOVIE! 
 You saw it?! 
 How'd you get in?! 
 Hey! Stop crowding us you shitfaced cockmasters! 
 Wowwww... 
 Yeah, you're all a bunch of ass ramming unclefuckers. 
 Ooooohhh!!! 
 (To another kid) We HAVE to see this movie, dude. 
 Hey Stan, tell 'em about when Terrance called Phillip a testicle shitting rectal wart! Stan? Stan? 
 Thank my lucky stars Here before me now Is everything I'd ever hoped for Knew it in a word Saw it in a glance The only thing I think I'd die for... 
 Aw, God Damn it, he's singing that fucking song again. 
 ANGLE - WENDY 
 I can't stop now My heart's awake I pray her arms my arms to take So this is why I'm ali- 
 Hi, Stan! 
 Ew! Gross! 
 Come, Wendy, let us try to jump the hilly brush. 
 Who are you, kid? 
 My name is Gregory. I have been Wendy's counter-cousin for some time. 
 Want to skate with us? 
 We've been skating all morning. And laughing and talking of memories past. 
 We saw the Terrance and Phillip movie! 
 That's nice, Stan. 
 Woa, dude, who's your girlfriend's new guy? 
 She's not my girlfriend, dude! 
 Yes, I saw the Terrance and Phillip movie. Who wants to touch me?  I said, "Who wants to touch me?!" 
 Oooooh... 
 Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka!! You're a shitsucking, cocksucking Unclefucka!! 
 MR. HAT Okay, children, let's take our seats. 
 MR. GARRISON Why is everyone wearing T-shirts of Sigfried and Roy? 
 It's not Sigried and Roy, Mr. Garrison, it's Terrance and Phillip. 
 TERRANCE AND PHILLIP!! 
 MR. GARRISON Well, anyway... Today children, our friend Mr. Hat is going to tell us all about the environment. 
 I hate the environment. 
 Dude, how can you hate the environment? 
 'Cuz, dude, it's all sticky and airy and fragile and stuff. I fucking hate it. 
 MR. GARRISON Eric! Did you just say the "F" word? 
 Fragile? 
 No, he's talking about fuck, dude. You can't say fuck in front of Mr. Garrison. 
 MR. GARRISON Kyle! 
 Why the fuck not? 
 MR. GARRISON Eric! 
 Dude, you just said fuck again. 
 MR. GARRISON Stanly! 
 Mph. 
 MR. GARRISON Kenny! 
 That's bullshit! If Terrance and Phillip can say something, I should be able to say it too! 
 Wow, Cartman's cool! 
 He's like Terrance and Phillip! 
 Fuckin' a right. 
 MR. GARRISON How would you like to go to the principal's office? 
 How would you like to gargle rat jiz? 
 MR. GARRISON WHAT DID YOU SAY?!?! 
 I said - 
 (Through megaphone) HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO GARGLE RAT JIZ?! 
 Oh, dude we are fucked now. 
 Now remember, don't tell anybody we saw the Terrance and Phillip movie! 
 Yeah, let's swear we won't tell! 
 I am VERY disappointed in you boys! You should be ASHAMED of yourselves! I've already called in your parents, but first I want you to THINK about what you've done. 
 Principal Victoria, can I ask a question? 
 What? 
 What's the big fucking deal? 
 Yeah. 
 AGH!! I want to know where you heard these horrific obscenities! 
 Nowhere. 
 I'VE heard them from Mr. Garrison a few times before... 
 Yeah! 
 Boys, I seriously doubt that Mr. Garrison ever said- (Reading) 'Eat penguin shit you cum sucking ass spelunker' in school! 
 Oh, oh... 
 Thank you all for coming on such short notice. As you can see, your boys are all being disciplined. 
 STAN'S MOTHER This just isn't like you, Stanley! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What did my son say, Principal Victoria? Did he say the S word? 
 No, it was worse than that... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER (Gasping) The F word?! 
 No, worse. Here's a short list of the things they've been saying. 
 STAN'S MOTHER Oh dear God... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What is 'fisting'? 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER That's when the fist is inserted into the anus or vagina for sexual pleasure. 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER What? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER (To Kyle) Young man, you will tell Peincipal Victoria THIS INSTANT where you heard all these horrible phrases! 
 I can't dude! We all took a sacred oath, and swore ourselves to secrecy! 
 It was the Terrance and Phllip movie! 
 Dude! 
 What? Fuck you guys, I wanna get out of here. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Terrance and Phillip MOVIE?! Oy gevalt! Not again! 
 What is Terrance and Phillip? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Terrance and Phillip are two VERY untalented, unfunny actors from Canada. Their TV show is filled with toilet humor and bad language and is just complete garbage.  Now it appears they have a movie and I'm positive it's not suitable for children! 
 Well, it looks like I'll have to send a warning letter out to parents. I have to put a stop to this before MORE children see 'Terrance and Phillip'. 
 Everybody's already fucking seen it. 
 MS. CARTMAN Eric! 
 I'm sorry! I can't help it!! That movie has warped my fragile little mind. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Alright, boys, that's enough. Get out and let us adults speak. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER We must take action on this immediately. 
 Ooh yes. I think we'll have to give detention to those boys. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Forgive me for saying so, Principal Victoria, but your methods are too... Shall we say... soft?  As head of the PTA, I am exercising my right under article 42 of the PTA code. 
 Article 42!  You don't mean-?! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Yes Principal Victoria.  The PTA is impeaching you. 
 But I- 
 KYLE'S MOTHER You are officially relieved of your duties as principal of this school! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Get out of that chair! The PTA is in charge now! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Attention students. We are now enforcing a new dress code at South Park Elementary. Terrance and Phillip shirts are NO LONGER ALLOWED IN SCHOOL. Anyone wearing a Terrance and Phillip shirt is to be SENT HOME IMMEDIATELY. 
 
!!! 
 Hello? 
 All over America, kids are flocking to the R rated film, 'Terrance and Phillip Asses of Fire'. Here with a special report, is a quadriplegic midget in a bikini. 
 Q. MIDGET W/BIKINI Thanks, Tom. It appears that the effects of the Canadian Comedy are far reaching indeed. All over America, children seem to be influenced. 
 Alright, this is for the silver medal. Spell 'Forensics'. 
 Oh, fuck that, why should I fucking have to spell forensics? 
 Here you go; S-U-C-K-M-Y-A-S-S, 
. 
 Hey kids, how would you like to see some magic tricks?! 
 
!! 
 Huh? 
 Yeah, and fuck your stupid little red nose. 
 2 Yeah, and fuck your yellow hair. And fuck your gay pants. 
 Q. MIDGET W/BIKINI And the devastating impact of the Canadian phenomenon is Terrance and Phillip's new hit song, "Shut Your Fucking Face, Unclefucka" which has climbed the charts with a bullet -- 
 TERRANCE & PHILLIP (Singing) Shut your fucking face! Unclefucka!! 
 Thanks, midget. Shocking report.  The controversy surrounding the Terrance and Phillip movie began in the small mountain town of South Park, Colorado where the local PTA banned the movie.  With us tonight is the head of the South Park PTA, Sheila Brofloski- 
 Ms. Brovlofski, how are these kids seeing this film? Is bad parenting to blame? Or is it Canada? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Canada! 
 Alright. Here with a counterpoint is the Canadian Minister of Movies. 
 Thank you, Minister, for joining us. 
 Minister, parents all over America are concerned about your country's entertainment. Your thoughts? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Oh but OF COURSE children are going to see it!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER YOU JUST DON'T CARE! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER BECAUSE IT'S EVIL!! 
 But minister, it isn't like this film is the first troublesome thing to come out of Canada. Let us not forget Brian Adams a few decades ago. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER The Canadians are just mad that we mothers here in South Park have the chutzpah to stand up to them!  Like it or not, Mr. Canadian Minister, OUR children are now safe from your Canadian smut! 
 Well, Terrance I hope you learned something from this whole experience. 
 I did, Terrance, I learned that you are a boner biting dick fart fuck face! 
 Say Phillip, want to see the Northern Lights? 
 You bet, Terrance! 
 HA HA HA! You burned yourself to death by lighting the fart! HA HA HA!! 
 (Just a skull) I sure did, Phillip!! 
 Did you see that, Wendy? 
 Yup. 
 Man, that movie gets better every time I see it! 
 Yeah, but you know what? That whole part about lighting farts is bullshit. You can't do that. 
 Mph rmpmh rm. 
 No way. 
 Didn't you think it was funny, Wendy? 
 Stan... I think you and I need some time apart. 
 WHAT?! 
 Oh shit. 
 It's just... It's obvious that we don't have a whole lot in common anymore. I need somebody who's... a little deeper. 
 But Wendy, I can go- 
 No. Don't speak. You'll only make things more annoying. Goodbye, Stan. 
 Dude, anybody who doesn't think Terrance and Phillip is funny can fuck off anyways. 
 (Insincere) Yeah... 
 Mph rmph rm!! 
 No you can't Kenny! 
 Mph rm rmph!! 
 Okay Kenny, I'll bet you a HUNDRED DOLLARS you can't light a fart on fire! 
 Mph mm! 
 
 MMMPMMPH!!! MGMFEODFO!!! 
 OH MY GOD!! YOU KILLED KENNY!! 
 YOU BASTARD!! 
 Wow, I guess you CAN do that! 
 CBC chem kit STAT!! 
 LOAD THAT I.V. WITH 70CCS OF SODIUM 
!! 
 Siphon the fluid off his brain!! Vacuum! 
 Try to untangle his trachea and esophagus! 
 Right! 
 No! THAT DOESN'T GO THERE!! 
 Watch his liver!!! 
 I'll get it!!! 
 We have precious little time left people! We're going to lose him soon!! 
 Doctor, his heart's stopped! 
 Crack him.  Let's get it out of there!!! 
 We need to zap this, quick! 
 Who's making a potato? 
 2 My bad, sir.  I missed lunch. 
 Damn it! I am NOT going to lose this kid!!!!!! 
 Kenny.  Kenny, can you hear me? 
 (Weakly) Mph rmph rm... 
 How are you feeling, son? 
 mph.... rmph.... 
 Great... Son, I have some bad news.  We accidentally replaced your heart with a baked potato.  You have about seven seconds to live. 
 Mrm?! 
 Oh my God! THEY killed Kenny! 
 You bastards!! 
 Damn it!  It never gets any easier! Anybody get the score of that Broncos game? 
 I'm sorry... 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Oh my God, they killed Kenny! 
 KENNY'S DAD You bastards! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER I knew this would happen! Those bastard Canadians have now killed a child! Can't people see the damage that film is doing?! 
 STAN'S MOTHER He was killed doing something he saw in the movie. It was Terrance and Phillip... THEY killed Kenny. 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER You bastards. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER This is it! The time for action is NOW!! (Singing) Something must be done! This is like a spreading rash! They're pulling out our children's brains and filling them with trash! Can't you see what this is leading to? A world of smut and sex and poo! I believe the good fight has begun! Something must be done! 
 STAN'S MOTHER I agree! (Singing) Something must be done! We must take action fast! My child used to say 'please and thank you' Now he says suck my ass! 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER And my boy was the sweetest boy the world had ever known! until those damn Canadians brought that filth into our home! I agree that there is now a battle to be won! We can't just stand here singing! Something must be done! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER But what are we going to do against the media machine? It's so big and powerful! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Right! And we can use that same media machine to exploit OUR cause!  We've got to let the whole world know what the Canadians did to your son! 
 Yeah!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER COME ON! 
 (Singing) Something must be done! Something's gotta give! This world has become a bitch in which we have no desire to live! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER My boy could have become a doctor Or a lawyer rich and true Instead he burned up like a piggy on a bar-b-que! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER We will fight for children's rights in memory of your son! 
 We can't just stand here singing! Something must be done! 
 We've pushed and pushed it to the edge And now the time has come! Something's gotta change! It's time to buy a gun! We can't just stand here singing No we can't just stand here singing No we can't just stand here singing! Something must be done!!! 
 (Dazed) I bet him he couldn't do it... I bet him a hundred dollars! 
 Come on, Cartman. It's not your fault. 
 No, I know. I'm just fucking STOKED I don't have to pay him! 
 Oh. 
 (O.S.) I can't believe he's dead. 
 (O.S.) Yeah, I'm having total deja vu right now. Like this has all happened before... 
!! 
 Mph rmph rm! 
 How can they do this? 
 It isn't fair! 
 Well, Terrance and Phillip are on Conan O'Brian tonight, we could at least go watch that. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER THIS must be him, officer! This is the scum that sold R rated tickets to children! 
 What?! Jesus Christ, I didn't mean to! 
 You can explain downtown! 
 (Getting dragged away) Oh shit! Hey it's not MY fault! You should arrest those pervert Canadians! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Oh we will, Mr. Scumbag... We will... 
 CONAN O'BRIAN Our next guests have the number one movie in the world right now, please welcome Terrance and Phillip! 
 Hello, Conan! 
 Hello, Brooke Shields! 
 It's nice to have you here in America. 
 Yeah, well, you being a Canadian and all, we thought what the hell! 
 CONAN O'BRIAN So guys... I understand you have a comedy routine worked out for us. 
 We sure do, Conan. And here it is. Excuse me, Terrance. 
 Yes, Phillip? 
 Gotcha! 
 ANGLE - BOYS 
 Good one, Phillip!  Cheers. 
 Cheers, Terrance! 
 CONAN O'BRIAN (Nervous) So, guys, I need to ask you a serious question... 
 I just farted Terrance back into the stone age! 
 I farted once on the set of Blue Lagoon! 
 Nobody cares, Brooke Shields! 
 CONAN O'BRIAN Terrance and Phillip... Whose idea was it, to have a person lighting a fart on fire in your movie? Who is responsible for that? 
 Phillip, I think our friend Conan has been working too hard. 
 CONAN O'BRIAN Say it! It was YOUR idea to have someone light a fart on fire in your movie! 
 PHILLIP/TERRANCE (Together) It was our idea to have someone light a fart on fire in your movie. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER (Into her lapel) That's it!  Move, move, move! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Terrance and Phillip, you are under arrest for working in America without the proper documents! WE GOT YOU! 
 ANGLE - BOYS 
 Dude, what the hell is going on? 
 Phillip, we've been tricked and ambushed by The Conan O'Brian Show!! 
 This little scrotum sucker willfully deceived us! (Pointing to Conan) You are a bad man! 
 And you call yourself a Canadian! (To Phillip) I told you we should of done Leno! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Don't listen to them, Mr. O'Brian. They're master manipulators. You did a good job. 
 You loved our movie, Conan!  We watched it together.  You... You laughed! 
 CONAN O'BRIAN What have I done?!!! 
 AGAHGAHGGH!!!! Mondays at eight 
!!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER You see what your filth has caused? 
 US?! This is your mess, outraged mother!! 
 Dude, our moms arrested Terrance and Phillip! 
 Our moms suck! 
 This could mean... No more Terrance and Phillip - EVER! 
 As The Canadian Ambassador, I hereby condemn the actions taken by America in apprehending Terrance and Phillip! 
 We demand their release IMMEDIATELY!! As you can see from this graph, the entire economy of Canada relies on Terrance and Phillip! Without them we are doomed to recession! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER If I may? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER As president and founder of M.A.C., I would like to state- 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Yes, Mothers Against Canada. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER I would like to state that Canada must learn to stop infiltrating our country with its graphic art! 
 Last time I checked America was a free country! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Look at this! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER This woman's child was KILLED by your country's humor! Look how upset she is! 
 We will continue to sell Terrance and Phillip videos to anyone retarded enough to buy it!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Then you leave me no choice... I call for an EMBARGO on ALL Canadian Imports!!! 
 What the hell do you mean I can't get Cheesy Poofs?! 
 Sorry, kid. Cheesy Poofs are a Canadian export. We can't carry them any more. 
 Who the hell made up that law?! 
 You can't do this!! Have you ever HAD Cheesy Poofs? They're a taste sensation with a delightful cheddar crunch. 
 There's nothing I can do. I can still sell you Cheese-o's. 
 FUCK Cheese-os and FUCK you! 
 Come on, you guys... We have to THINK! 
 About what? 
 About Cheesy Poofs, dumbass! This whole thing has gone too far! 
 I don't really think you need Cheesy- Poofs, tubby- 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Boys, we have to have a difficult discussion. 
 We already know what you did. We saw it on television. 
 Yeah, how come you arrested Terrance and Phillip? 
 STAN'S MOTHER Stanly, you're too young to understand what's good for you. That's why we mothers have taken charge. 
 But they fucking didn't do anything wrong! 
 Yeah!  And what rim job expert went and outlawed Cheesy Poofs!? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What was that word, young man!? 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Oh, he said rim job.  It's when someone licks your ass for- 
 KYLE'S MOTHER I know what it is! 
 (To his mother) Lick someone's ass?! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER The Terrance and Phillip movie has obviously done irreparable damage to their brains.  We have to put them in rehab right away. 
 What's that? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER You boys need help.  There are rehab centers that specialize in treating people with chronic addictions to bad language. 
 STAN'S MOTHER There are? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Well no, I guess not...  But we will establish the first of its kind right here in South Park.  All the children in town will have to attend and receive treatment from the school counselor Mr. Mackey!  Ooh I just love when I get these sorts of ideas! 
 Why?  So you can fuck up our life some more? 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Eric!  Don't talk to Ms. Brovlofski that way! 
 But mom!  I'm not fucking addicted to fucking bad language!  I don't have a fucking problem! 
 Mphrmo? 
 MPHR!! MMLY MMT! 
 
!!!!! 
 Fallen one... We have such sights to show you! 
 I am Satan. I am your God, now. 
 
!!! 
 Come with me. I will show you what delightful pain awaits. 
 
!!!! 
 Oh, a new recruit, huh? Welcome to hell, kid! Relax! Take a load off!! 
 You remember... Saddam Hussein, don't you?! 
 
!!! 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay, it's come to my attention, that you boys have a potty-mouth problem, mkay. Now the sooner you recognize your problem, mkay, the sooner we can get you back to your third grade homeroom where you belong. 
 But they're just words, Mr. Mackey. Our parents are over-reacting. 
 Yeah, Wendy's here, and she doesn't even like Terrance and Phillip! 
 Ugh... You guys, seriously... I'm having Cheesy Poof withdrawal... 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay, kids from all over the State have been brought here, because you all share the same problem. Uh, young man... Let's start with you. 
 My name is Gregory... And I have a potty mouth. 
 You've got a stupid accent too. 
 MR. MACKEY Eric, that is not appropriate. 
 What? Fuck French people. Fuck 'em in the ear. 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay, you see, children. This is exactly what I'm talking about. We have to change the way you think. 
 How are you gonna do that? 
 MR. MACKEY There are times when you get suckered in, by drugs and alcohol and sex with wom-en. But it's when you do these things too much (Singing) That you've got to clear your head and get back in touch... 
 MR. MACKEY You can do it, it's all up to you, mkay? With a method, there's nothing you can't do, mkay? You don't have to spend your life addicted to crack Homeless on the streets giving hand- jobs for cash as long as you follow this simple plan I'm fully convinced that it's, easy, mkay... 
 MR. MACKEY Step one: Think about fun. Think about all that you'll miss addicted to this Step two: Think it all through. Think how's this gonna change my life, what am I gonna miss? Step three: Go and hug a tree, Hug anything that gets in your way! And step four: Just don't do it anymore - it's easy, Mkay! 
 MR. MACKEY Come on, kids! Sing along! 
 (Extremely half-assed) You can do it, it's all up to you mkay? With a method, there's nothing you can't do, mkay? We don't have to spend our lives addicted to crack Homeless on the streets giving hand- jobs for cash 
 MR. MACKEY As long as you follow my simple plan I'm fully convinced that it's, easy, mkay... 
 Step one: Think about fun. Think about all that you'll miss addicted to this Step two: Think it all through. Think how's this gonna change my life, what am I gonna miss? Step three: Go and hug a tree, Hug anything that gets in your way! And step four: Just don't do it anymore - it's easy, Mkay! 
 MR. MACKEY It's easy, Mkay?! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What the hell do they think this is?! Summer camp?! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Mr. Mackey, what is going on?! 
 MR. MACKEY Uh, we're just, starting our program... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER This is NOT a place for fun and games! This is rehabilitation! Now GET TO IT!! We at MAC have a trial to go to! 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay. 
 God Damn it your mom is a bitch, Kyle. 
 Tom I'm standing in front of the U.S. Supreme Court where the most important trial of the - day - is happening. Thousands of people have shown up from all over the country to show their outrage and disgust at Canada. Joining me now is Mrs. McKormick, mother of the poor little boy who was killed by the Canadians. 
 Mrs. McKormick, you must really hate the Canadians. 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Yes, yes I do, Tom. 
 Did you ever think you would see the day when thousands of people were wearing your son Kenny on T-shirts? 
 KENNY'S MOTHER No I didn't. But if any of you would like one they're 14.95. Available in blue or white. 
 Well, we can only imagine the intense, vehement trial that is going on inside. 
 Terrance and Phillip... You knowingly, with malice of forethought were trying to destroy American culture, yes or no? 
 YES OR NO! 
 Shh! Mr. Mackey's gonna hear us! 
 The Americans are just showing their TRUE COLORS as smelly bastards. 
 Fight the power! 
 The young boy that died lit himself on fire. It was unfortunate, but how can they blame US? 
 Don't believe the hype!! 
 (Adlib) Yeah! WooHoo! 
 You cannot oppress us! We will continue to pursue our art. We know there are Americans out there who will help us! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Your 'ART' is shallow and immature! We Americans do NOT allow that for our children!! 
 Please. You teach your children that America is the land of the free. But it's all bullshit. You're one of the most conservative countries in the world! 
 The problem is you don't allow your children to think for themselves. You try to raise them in a protective bubble, and then when they finally get old enough, they realize they've been lied to, and they resent you for it. 
 Yeah, God, no wonder your country is so fucked up. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER THAT IS ENOUGH!! 
 WAKE UP AMERICA! YOUR government censors YOU from the world. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER NO THEY DON'T! 
 YES THEY DO! AND I'LL PROVE IT TO YOU! IN MARCH OF LAST YEAR, THE AMERICAN 
- 
. 
 What happened? 
 The station CONVENIENTLY went blank. 
 Please listen to them!! 
 They're not fucking around!! 
 MR. MACKEY Okay kids, for today's rehabilitation activity, we're going to watch the Terrance and Phillip movie. 
 What?! 
 Sweet! 
 MR. MACKEY Now, this is an EDITED version of the movie, which was put out by the MPAA. That's the Motion Picture Association of America. 
 Isn't that censorship? 
 MR. MACKEY No the MPAA is NOT a censorship group. 
 Why not? 
 MR. MACKEY Uh... Because they say so... Mkay. Now I want you to watch this movie, with all the immature profanity taken out, and notice how much better a movie it becomes... 
 
!!! 
 Hey Terrance. I feel like I'm going to pass gas near your head. 
 I would rather you didn't, Phillip. 
 Oh? Is that so? 
 Oh, you are such a maroon! 
 You would know, dummy. 
 You are pigeon-like in your intelligence. 
 WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?! 
 Dude, they cut out 92 minutes! 
 MR. MACKEY So you see, the point and the theme of the film is kept intact. And of course, the MPAA didn't cut out any of the graphic violence. What did you think? 
 Oh man, I'm gonna need a cherry pie to get the taste of ass out of my mouth from that piece of shit movie. 
 MR. MACKEY Eric, you're not watching your mouth! 
 You get me Cheesy Poofs with the delightful cheddar crunch, and I'll watch my fucking mouth! 
 MR. MACKEY Eric!!!!  You need to be rehabilitated. Help me to help you! 
 Help yourself prickfuck! 
 MR. MACKEY I am not a prickfuck, mkay? You little asshole! 
 Ha, ha, you stupid asshole prickfuck. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER How is the children's progress? 
 MR. MACKEY Very encouraging. Most of the children have been weened from their naughty mouths. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What do you mean MOST, why not ALL? 
 MR. MACKEY (Nervous) Well, some of the children just don't respond to 12 step programs. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Then we'll have to resort to plan B and call the v-chip organization. 
 MR. MACKEY Mrs. Brovlofski, the V-chip hasn't been fully tested yet, it could be dangerous. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER (Evil) I don't care if it's dangerous! Desperate times call for desperate measures, Mr. Mackey. Perhaps I need to remind you of your situation. 
 MR. MACKEY (Nervous) Alright, I'll make the call... 
 Madam foreman, have you reached a verdict? 
 We have, your honor. 
 How find you, the jury? 
 We the jury, find the defendants... Terrance and Phillip... GUILTY of being complete bastards. 
 Oh no! 
 Oh oh, Phillip. You know what this means? 
 We'll be farting bread and water for a few years. 
 Terrance and Phillip, for crimes against the great nation of America you are hereby sentenced to DEATH. 
 DEATH?! You gotta be shittin' me! 
 Aghgh! 
 Dude, let's help Terrance and Phillip!! 
 How do we do that? 
 You raise awareness by distributing buttons, stickers and leaflets. 
 That'd be sweet! We could try to bring back Cheesy Poofs! 
 Yeah, let's make Free Terrance and Phillip buttons! 
 You guys don't even care. All you care about is seeing Terrance and Phillip fart on each other more. 
 Yeah! 
 This is about freedom of speech, Stan, about censorship. 
 Yes, what's next? Barcodes on our forearms? This country is the most fascist of all. 
 What the hell are you talking about, kid? 
 You don't get it Stan... You just don't get it. 
 What? What don't I get? (To Kyle) What don't I get? 
 I don't know, dude. 
 That British dickhole is what's taking Wendy away from me! 
 I thought she wasn't your girlfriend, dude. 
 She's Not! But if she WAS it would be THAT little asshole who's fucking it up for me! 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay, children, you've all made terrific progress, and are hereby done with the eight step program. 
 Thank God, that sucked ass. 
 MR. MACKEY Uh, except for you Eric. I'm afraid you need to work more on not saying the F word and the N word. 
 The N word? 
 MR. MACKEY (Reading) Norwegian Ass Raper. 
 Oh yeah. 
 MR. MACKEY The rest of you are graduated. You can go home today. 
 I don't graduate?! WHAT THE FUCK IS THIS?! THIS IS BULLSHIT?! 
 MR. MACKEY Free Terrance and Phillip? Oh no... Mkay. 
 (Proudly) We're protesting! 
 Yeah! 
 MR. MACKEY Well, boys, it might interest you to know that your FRIENDS the Canadians have just bombed the U.S. 
 They did?! 
 MR. MACKEY Yes, at six this morning they bombed the heck out of Cleveland. 
 Oh. That doesn't count. 
 They only bombed Cleveland because we're going to Execute two of their citizens!! 
 MR. MACKEY Wendy, Mkay, if you want to start getting political, I'll throw your skinny little butt right back into rehab. Mkay? 
 HOW THE FUCK CAN YOU NOT GRADUATE ME?! DOES THAT MEAN I HAVE TO STAY HERE?! 
 MR. MACKEY No, Eric... I'm afraid it's phase two for you... 
 Prepare thyself for unending pain! Unparalleled misery!! 
 Hey, relax Satan. Don't get all worked up. You're gonna give yourself an ulcer again. 
 Mrph mprph!! 
 What? What do you mean you don't belong here? Relax guy, hell is for children. 
 Mrph mprhm mm rmph! 
 A deal? You wanna make a deal with the devil. Well sure, deals are mounds o' fun. 
 (To Saddam) Saddam, would you let me do my job please! 
 Hey relax, guy. Let's see what the kid wants. 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rmph rm! 
 Oh, you want out of hell, huh? 
 Well of COURSE he wants out of hell! The whole POINT of hell is that you don't WANT to be here! 
 Okay, kid, I have a deal for you! If you want out of hell, all you have to do is collect 10 proofs of purchases from 'Snacky Smores.'  They're rich, chocolatey and really hit the spot. Bring me ten proofs of purchases and we'll grant you ANY WISH YOU WANT. 
 Mrph? 
 I wouldn't bullshit you kid! Snacky Smores are now available in stores everywhere! No biggie! 
 (To Kenny) Well what are you waiting for pal?!  Get to it! 
 HA HA HAHA!! What a dumbass!! 
 I don't see why you have to belittle me in front of people like that. 
 Hey, relax guy. It's just a cruel joke. Rich, chocolatey Snacky Smores are only available up on Earth. He'll never get 'em, see? 
 Sometimes I just think you don't have any respect for me. 
 Hey, come here, guy. 
 Who's my cream puff? 
 I am. 
 Is that a new pearl bracelet, Mrs. McKormick? 
 KENNY'S MOTHER Why yes. Yes it is. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER As our next official order of business here at M.A.C., we will test the new V- chip. As most of you know, the V-chip was created to lock children out of watching certain shows on television. And now the N.I.H. has created a new, exciting product that they can tell us all about. Here is the Surgeon General, Dr. Pangloss. 
 Thank you, parents. 
 The machinery of the new 'V-chip' is very simple, and similar to that of the V- chip. The chip is placed just under the subject's skin, where it emits a small but painful shock of electricity whenever an obscenity is uttered. 
 STAN'S FATHER Now wait a minute, are you telling us that this chip somehow KNOWS if the kid is swearing? 
 It's just like a lie detector. Certain things happen in you when you swear just like when you lie, the chip picks up on this and gives the subject a shock. 
 We are very excited to see the results of this test. (Calling) Patient 453, would you step out here, please? 
 Patient 453 here has been fitted with the new v-chip... 
 My head hurts. 
 Don't worry about that. Now, I want you to say 'Doggy.' 
 Doggy. 
 Notice that nothing happens. (To Cartman) Now say 'Montana.' 
 Montana. 
 Good. Now 'Pillow'. 
 Pillow. 
 Alright, now I want you to say 'horsefucker.' 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Go ahead, it's alright, Eric. 
 Horsefuck- 
!!!! 
 
!!!!! 
 OW!! That HURT GOD DAMMI- 
!! 
 OW!! YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME!! THIS ISN'T FAIR!!! YOU SONS A BITCHE-- 
!! 
 Success!! Our device works perfectly! We will begin mass production immediately! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER And so we have succesfully removed the Canadian smut from all of our children's brains. We have made changes at school to ensure that our kids are NEVER AGAIN exposed to smut!!!!!!! It's OVER! 
 Hi Wendy. 
 (Not even looking) Hi Stan. 
 Wow, dude. Wendy could really give a rats ass about you. 
 (Eyes still on Wendy) I bet she would if my name was GREGORY!! 
 Good thing she was never your girlfriend... Dude, here comes Cartman. 
 Hey, Cartman, did they put that V-chip in your head or your ass? 
 What's the difference? 
 Very funny dickhead- 
 
 OW!  FUCK- 
!! 
 
! 
 Whoa!  What the hell was that?! 
 Dude!  It's the V-chip!  It shocks him ever time he cusses! 
 Hey Cartman. 
 What? 
 You know, me and Stan were just talking about what a fat fucking hunk o' fat fuck you are. 
 Oh yeah?!  Well you're a monkey-shit- 
! 
 
- 
!! 
 
- 
 This is sweet!! 
 Totally! 
 MR. GARRISON Okay, children, let's try a few new math problems. What is five times two? 
 MR. GARRISON Come on, children, do be shy, just give it your best shot. 
 MR. GARRISON Yes, Clyde? 
 Twelve? 
 MR. GARRISON Okay, now let's try to get an answer from somebody who's not a complete retard. Anyone? Come on don't be shy... 
 Hey, what are you doing? 
 You can't wear these in school. It's against school policy, thank you. 
 What's that for? 
 2 You get a star for doing well in school. 
 
!! 
 What's the matter, Wendy? 
 Nothing, Stan. You wouldn't understand. 
 (To Kyle) God damn it, why does she keep saying that? 
 I'm so sick of these soldiers. 
 Yeah, they suck. 
 I know.  Always saying, do this, do that. They think they're so cooool. (To the soldier) Acht lieben kraft auct shpiler! 
 (BZZZT) 
!!! 
! 
 Hello there, children!! 
 Hey, Chef. 
 How would like some Salisbury Steak with buttered noodles? 
 We can't, we're on a hunger strike. 
 A hunger strike? For what? 
 To free Terrance and Phillip. 
 But you guys... It's Salisbury steak. 
 Chef, do you know anything about women? 
 Ha! Is the Pope Catholic? 
 I don't know. 
 Children, I know ALL there is to know about women. 
 What's the secret to making a woman happy? 
 (Dishing out food) Oh that's easy, you just gotta find the clitoris. 
 Huh? 
 Oops, I guess you haven't got that far in your anatomy class, huh? 
 No, what does that mean, find the clitoris? 
 Is that like finding Jesus or something? 
 Uh... Nothing. Forget I said anything. Now move along, children! You're holding up the line! 
 (O.S.) ATTENTION ALL SOUTH PARK ELEMENTARY STUDENTS AND STAFF! REPORT TO THE GYMNASIUM IMMEDIATELY FOR A SPECIAL 
!! 
 Woa, I wonder what's going on, dude. 
 Please take your seats, everyone!!!! 
 What's going on, Chef? 
 Something big, children. 
 (Very serious) This is a State of Emergency. We go now to the White House for a VERY IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT from the President of the United States. 
 Ladies and gentlemen... At five a.m. today, a day which will live in infamy... sort of... the U.S. has declared war on Canada. 
 ANGLE - KIDS 
 Oh, no... 
 MR. MACKEY I don't believe it. 
 Holy crap- 
 (BZZZT!) OW!! Hey crap isn't a swear word, what the fuck?! 
 (ZZZZZZTTT) 
!!! 
 All Canadians are to leave the country immediately, or be subject to military camps. All Canadian products are to be thrown out. 
 How can they do this? 
 MR. GARRISON I never thought there would be war again in my lifetime... 
 Do not be afraid of this war. Instead embrace it. We have God on our side. And besides, they're just Canadians, what the hell are they gonna do? 
 Chef, what does it mean that we're at war? 
 It's... It's not good children. 
 What do we do? Do we go on as normal or...? 
 MR. GARRISON I don't know Principal Victoria... I don't know... 
 And now, I would like to bring up the woman who led, and is still leading the way in this glorious stand- 
 (Pointing to TV) HOLY SHIT DUDE!! 
 Mrs. Sheila Brovlofski. 
 Isn't that your mother, Kyle? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER My fellow Americans. I have led this fight in the War against profanity. I have founded Mothers Against Canada.  Our neighbor to the north has abused us for the last time. 
 As Commander in chief, I have ordered our Army to set up defensive positions along the US-Canada border in anticipation of an attack. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What about air strikes? 
 Huh? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER We have to have air strikes on their military and entertainment centers.  It's the only way to ensure that their smut can't reach American soil! 
 Oh, uh...  I don't know if air strikes are necessary. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Not necessary?!  Mr. President, may I remind you that our country's heart and soul are at stake, and our children's minds are the battlefield! The bastard Canadians want to fight us because we won't tolerate their potty mouths. Well, if it is war they want... THEN WAR THEY SHALL HAVE!!! 
 Damn, your mom's a bitch, Kyle. 
 Amen to that. 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rm? 
 Snacky Smores? Why the hell would I have proofs of purchases from Snacky Smores? Beat it, kid. 
 You just get cranky when you're tired, that's all.  I told you that you shouldn't have tried to carry that futon all by yourself. 
 I'm not cranky.  And that futon was not too big to carry myself- 
 In war news, countries from Europe and Asia are joining sides in the Canadian- American War- 
 -Listen butterbuns, let's make love and forget about the whole thing- 
 
!!!! 
 ...The death count is already on its way to 10 million with no signs of slowing down.  What started as a spat between the United States and Canada is quickly turning into World War III- 
 It has come to be...  The Four Horsemen are drawing nigh!  The time of the prophecy is upon us! 
 Oh I love when you get all biblical Satan.  You know exactly how to turn my crank! 
 No I'm being serious! Those Canadian entertainers are to be killed. It is the seventh sign. 
 Behold, the signs of my reign on earth are all falling into place!  The fall of an empire- 
 -The coming of a comet- 
 Jerry Springer's movie doing more than ten million box office- 
 ....And now.... 
 The seventh sign!  When the blood of these Canadians touches American soil... It will be my time to rise!!!!! 
 Yeah!  YEAH!!!  Man I'm getting so HOT!!! 
 Do you always think about sex?  I'm talking about some very important stuff here! 
 Listen buttercup, let's make love and forget about the whole thing. 
 Is sex the only thing that matters to you? 
 I love you. 
 You know I do. 
 I know. 
 So what do you say we shut off that light and get close, huh? 
 Yeah, you like that, don't you bitch? 
 Does it say what the clitoris is? 
 All it says is that it's above the vulva... But where the hell is the vulva? 
 Isn't that in Arizona or something? 
 What is this? 
 They're burning all the Canadian stuff cause of the war. 
 That book wasn't Canadian! 
 Dude, don't you like Terrance and Phillip anymore? 
 Of course not! We're at war! My daddy says I HATE Canadians now! 
 THAT'S IT! BURN EVERYTHING CANADIAN!!! MAKE OUR COUNTRY DECENT AGAIN FOR OUR 
!!! 
 NNOOOO!!!! WHAT ARE YOU DOING?! OH, WHY 
 GOD, WHY?! 
 This is all cause of your mom, Kyle. She's such a bitch- 
 (BBBZAATT!!) AGH!! I mean - she's such a... meanie. 
 And she's getting worse... 
 Dude... Isn't that your brother? 
 Why don't you go back to your own country, CANADIAN! 
 2 Yeah, go eat some potatoes and ride donkeys! 
 Eee todo ba! 
 Hey! Leave him alone! 
 It's just a smelly Canadian. They're like rats. 
 He's my brother! 
 You don't look Canadian. 
 He's adopted! 
 Well you better get his beady eyed Canadian ass out of America before my daddy finds him!! 
 It's only a matter of time before my mom has HIM burned too! 
 What has the world come to? This is horrible. We're locked up, burning books, hating other people- 
 -no Cheesy Poofs. 
 -No Cheesy Poofs... What the hell is happening? 
 I don't know. But it has gone far enough! I'm sick of it! (Singing) Something must be done! Change has got to come around! They're taking all our laughter and burning it to the ground! Can't you see what this is leading to? A world of chains and ties and glue! We have to fight before they've taken every one! Something must be done! 
 I agree! The only way to save our future is to unite and fight! (Singing) Something must be done! We must take action fast! My parents have gotten so strict they forgot they were children in the past! 
 And my mom has become so bu-sy that she's raising heck and ignoring me I agree that there is now a battle to be won! Something must be done! 
 But what are we going to do against this entire army? 
 We've gotta get the word out. We'll get on my dad's computer and use the internet! Come on you guys! 
 Something must be done! Something's gotta give! This world has become a bitch in which we have no desire to live! 
 We've pushed it to the edge And now the time has come! Something's gotta change! Something must be done! Something must be done!!! 
 Okay... I just need to find a few private message boards... 
 Wait! Before we put a message out, do a search on the word 'clitoris'. 
 Okay... 
 (Reading the screen) "Found Eight Million Pages With the Word Clitoris"! 
 Wow! 
 I'll just try the first one. 
 Dude! It's a lady giving a blow job to a horse! 
 Is it Cartman's mom? 
 Very funny! 
 Hey... It IS Cartman's mom!! 
 Oh, son of a bitch! 
 (ZZAP!!) AAGHGH!! I mean, son of a biscuit! 
 Maybe THAT'S who your father is, Cartman! 
 Ber dada! 
 Get out of here Ike, you're too young for this stuff! 
 Papa mama simi. 
 Come on, just get to the message board! 
 I'm trying, I can't find a Canadian server... I've got to break into the main frame... 
 Damn it! They've got an access code! I'll try to reroute the encryptions... 
 Dude, do you know what you're doing? 
 No, dude, all you have to do is hit the keys really fast and say a bunch of stupid shit and it works. 
 Bingo. Okay, here we go... (Typing) Want to help Terrance and Phillip? Meet us for a meeting at Gladdy's barn tomorrow night... 
 Tell 'em we'll have pie and punch. 
 We're not gonna have pie and punch! 
 More people will come if they think there'll be pie and punch! 
 (Typing) pie and punch... This is Top Secret. The password is... 
 (Dramatically) La Resistance. 
 You stay up here in the attic, Ike. Don't make any noises or nothing, okay? 
 Uhh... 
 Goodnight, Ike, we're all going to bed. 
 How can you tell? 
 Sir, we're tracking a signal crossing into Canadian computers! It looks like we may have a resistance movement starting... 
 (Showing her the papers) Ma'am, we're tracking a resistance... It's probably Canadian spies!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Well find out where that signal is coming from!  Then hunt them down like dogs! Any and all Canadian influence must be stopped at all cost! 
 Yes ma'am! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER And Bill? 
 Yes? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER I'm needing lunch. 
 Right away, ma'am! 
 (V.O.) And so the draft will begin tomorrow, as more and more troops are needed to fight the Canadian forces... 
 (V.O.) What is quickly being referred to as 'The Great Canadian-American War' has already reached a death toll of two million. 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Goodnight, honey. 
 Mom... When is the war gonna be over? 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER I don't know honey. Soon we hope. You want it to end quickly, huh? 
 Oh, I don't care, I was just asking cuz all my favorite TV shows have been replaced by news and it's pissing me off. 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Oh. 
 Mom... 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Yes, hon? 
 If you went down on a horse... You'd tell me, right? 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Sure, hon. Goodnight. 
 Go away, scary noise. 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Eric?! Eric, what is it?! 
 I saw him!! I saw Kenny!! 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Oh you poor dear. You've been through so much... 
 I bet him he couldn't set himself on fire and now he's all pissed off!! 
 (BZZTZT!) AGH! I can't say pissed off?! 
 (BAZZTZT!!) 
!! 
 The execution of Terrance and Phillip is imminent, soon all hell shall rise!! 
 (Evil and scary) Are you afraid, little one? Afraid for the souls of your pitiful friends that- 
 Hey Satan!  I got some great new home furnishings today! 
 Boy buddy Rich, it was a bitch to get something to match with that bathroom tile! 
 Oh, hey kid. Find those proofs of purchases yet? No?! Gee, whatta surprise! Well, keep lookin! 
 Do you wanna know what I did today? 
 What did you do today Satan? 
 You don't care. 
 Hey fella!  Relax!  This whole armageddon thing has got you all stressed out. Let's make love. 
 Do you remember when you first got here? We used to talk all night long. Until the sun came up... We would just lie in bed and TALK. 
 That's because I wanted to fuck you, dumbass! Now hows aboot you get those pants down! 
 Don't call me dumb! 
 I mean cute dumb. Now bend over! 
 How come you always want to make love to me from behind? Is it because you want to pretend I'm somebody else? 
 Satan, your ass is gigantic and red, who am I gonna pretend you are? Helen Reddy? 
 Come on, kid. Help me with these shower curtains. 
 (Gently) Sometimes I think When I look up real high That there's a whole world up there And just maybe it could be mine But then, I sink because it's here I'm supposed to stay but I don't even know how or why its supposed to be that way- 
 Up there, there is so much room Where babies burp and flowers bloom Everyone dreams I can dream too Up there, Up where The skies are ocean blue I could be safe and live without a care... Up there 
 They say I don't belong That my place is down below Because of my beliefs I'm supposed to stay where evil is sewn But what is evil anyway? Is there reason to the rhyme? Without evil there could be no good So it must be good to be evil sometimes Up there, there is so much room Where babies burp and flowers bloom. Everyone dreams I can dream too Up there, Up where The skies are ocean blue I could be safe and life without a care... Up there 
 You're late, Cartman! 
 I had to ride my bike here. My behind is killing me. 
 Your behind? 
 I have to say 'behind'! I get shocked if I say 'ass- 
 (BBZZAATT) 
!!! 
 Did you bring the pie and punch? 
 No you guys... Something happened... You guys wanna hear something creepy? (Looking over each shoulder) I don't think Kenny is dead. 
 What? 
 I saw him last night! 
 I know Cartman, I know.  I see Kenny every day. 
 YOU DO?! 
 Sure, dude.  On the face of every child, on the smile of every baby... 
 Hey!  I'm telling you this WAS Kenny! I think he's haunting me. 
 Somebody's here... 
 Who is it? 
 Uhh... I'm here for La Resistance. 
 What's the password? 
 Uhh... I don't know. 
 Guess. 
 Uhh... Bacon. 
 Okay. 
 Viva la Resistance. 
 Oh no, it's that kid. 
 This is the place-- 
 Wendy? 
 Stan?! YOU started La Resistance? 
 Well, apparently you have a bigger heart than we thought. Let us get this meeting underway, there are others coming. 
 Everyone be seated, please. 
 Wow, a lot of people showed up. 
 Yeah, so what do we say? 
 I thought you had something planned. 
 Me?! 
 (Nervous) Kay. Uh... Terrance and Phillip are supposed to be killed, and we think that sucks ass!! 
 Uhh... So we think we should prank call a bunch of policemen! We can have pizzas sent to them that they didn't order! VIVA 
!!! 
 Uhh... 
 May I? 
 What? 
 Terrance and Phillip are currently being held at a Canadian Internment camp two kilometers outside of town. They are to be executed tomorrow during a star-studded USO show for the troops. 
 We must sneak into the camp through this duct, freeing Terrance and Phillip inside... The war is escalating, and the American forces are preparing for a large scale attack on Canada. That means the time is now... 
 Wow, dude, Wendy's new guy is smart. 
 This is a dangerous mission, so I'll go myself. 
 No! 
 WE'RE going! WE started La Resistance to save Terrance and Phillip! We're going! 
 This will be very dangerous... Are you quite sure? 
 Fuck that! 
 (BZZT) 
!! 
 We're going... Let's run through the plan!! 
 Oh, I'm so glad there's a war again. I was gettin' worried I'd never see another one! 
 And they're giving all us troops a big USO tomorrow with celebrities and executions! 
 MR. GARRISON You look great in your new uniform Mr. Hat. 
 MR. HAT You do too, Mr. Garrison. 
 MR. GARRISON Boy, I can't wait for our first shore- leave so I can go get me some poontang. 
 
! 
 It's no secret that the Evil Canadian Federation has scored major victories all over the United State.  We have brought you here because you ar America's best, and last hope. 
 Oh... Apparently you're not the best, you're simply the last. Anyway, let's strategize... Map! 
 Our sources have told us that the Canadians might try to attach tomorrow's USO show and stop us from executing Terrance and Phillip. 
 Now each battalion has a specific code- name and mission.  Battalion 5, raise your hands- 
 You will be the all-important first defense wave, which we will call 'Operation Human Shield'. 
 Hey, wait a minute... 
 Now keep in mind, 'Operation Human Shield' will suffer heavy losses.  But don't lose your spirit men!  Stay until the bitter end.  Battalion 14? 
 Right, you are 'Operation Get Behind The Darkies'.  You will follow Battalion 5 here- 
 -and try not to get killed for God's Sake.  Are there any questions men? 
 Yes soldier? 
 Have you ever heard of the Emancipation Proclamation? 
 I don't listen to hip-hop. 
 If you somehow live, we will regroup on this hill outside-- 
 Now what's wrong with this thing? 
 Fucking windows 98! 
 GET GATES IN HERE!!! 
 YOU TOLD US WINDOWS 98 WOULD BE FASTER AND MORE EFFICIENT WITH BETTER ACCESS TO THE INTERNET!!! 
 It is faster, over five million-- 
 Alright men, get lots of rest, and prepare thyselves for battle! 
 ...after you clear this zone here, rendezvous behind this ridge where Terrance and Phillip should be held. 
 Gotcha. 
 You are indeed brave, but you will need someone who's done this sort of thing before.  MOLE! 
 Oui? 
 Thank you for coming, Mole. 
 Yeah, I guess. 
 This is the Mole.  He will accompany you to the prison where Terrance and Phillip are.  He is an expert in covert operations and a lifelong fighter for freedom. 
 Good luck Stan, I'll make sure Wendy is... kept safe? 
 Give me Terrance and Phillip or give me death!!! 
 
!!! 
 God has smiled upon you this day The fate of a nation in your hands... 
 As brothers and sisters we unite And behind you we shall fight! Until only the most righteous belief stands! 
 Do you see the distant flames? they bellow in the night Fight in all our names For what we know is right And if you all get shot and cannot carry on Though you die, La Resistance lives on! 
 What? Shot? 
 You might get stabbed in the head by a dagger or a sword You might be burned to death or skinned alive or worse! 
 But when they torture you You will not feel a need to run For though you die, La Resistance Lives on! 
 Do you hear the beating drum? It is our hearts all joined to one It is the music of our souls knowing we have much to overcome! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Something must be done! Tomorrow it will be! We're going to execute this threat to our democracy! 
 M.A.C. And after that our kids will be safe from all the Canadian scum! The time is now the time is here Tomorrow something will be done! 
 I want to be part of that world! But if only I had the strength to go without HIM... If only I had the strength to leave him behind... Get on with my life in that world... Start over as part of that world... 
 Tomorrow we face our destiny! Tomorrow we fight to keep our country free! Death to Canada! Death to them all! Like our forefathers we shall answer the call! 
 (Stroking woman's arm) Baby your thighs sparkle like diamonds Baby your butt is tender like the night I can see by the look in your pants that you want to treat me right. I'll whisper sweet nothings in your cleavage And you can kiss me gently with your tongue And I'll make love to you so deeply That you'll feel pressure clear up to your lungs. 
 Something must be done! Something's gotta give! Tomorrow we will be free or we will no longer live! 
 TERRANCE & PHILLIP Shut your fucking face Unclefucka! You're an ass raping cock sucking Unclefucka!!! 
 Let it echo through the night! Let it reach the ears of everyone! Though we die La Resistance lives on! Though we die La Resistance lives onnnn!!!!! Ah- AHHHH!!! 
 (Singing) I don't know but I've been told- 
 I DON'T KNOW BUT I'VE BEEN TOLD! 
 (O.S.) Canadian pussy is mighty cold! 
 (O.S.) CANADIAN PUSSY IS MIGHTY COLD! 
 This is it! World War Three is at hand! The millennium nears! 
 Prepare the minions for the rising of Gothos! 
 This is so exciting! Let's fuck! 
 This is the millennium, Saddam! This is Armageddon! There's more to life than sex! 
 Hey, relax guy! 
 Well I just want you to be impressed with what I do. I want you to respect my MIND. 
 I DO respect your mind! It turns me on! It makes me wanna fuck the shit out of you! Don't you see? 
. 
 (Singing) Hey guy, relax, put out You gotta put out for me! I'm just a man with needs And right now I need your generosity! I love your eyes, your nose and lips So drop those pants and do some dips Come on guy, you gotta relax relax, put out for me! 
 What if I, don't wanna put out? That's all you ever say Relax put out I'm a living creature, I have feelings too, I don't need this abuse from you- 
 Hey, guy, relax, put out! You gotta relax, shut your mouth- Baby I'd do anything for ya! Now don't make me smack you in the eye like last time- 
 I get what I want, and what I want is for youuuuu toooo put ooooout!!! 
 What if I just left? 
 Where're you gonna go, bitch? Besides, you know that if you left me, I'd hunt you down and kill you, right? I'm gonna go grab a drink. 
 What are you doing?! Get on with your misery! 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rm? 
 Him? I don't know... He can be nice... sometimes. 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rm. 
 What do you mean?! I could leave him if I wanted to! 
 Mph rm. Rmph rm rmph rm. 
 Alright you men! The USO show is about to start!! 
 Get ready for loads of entertainment and fabulous celebrities! To be followed immediately by the swift and nasty execution of Terrance and Elroy! 
 
 OW!  MOTHERFUCKER! 
!!! 
 
- 
 
!!! 
! 
 
!!! 
 Oh my God... 
 How are we ever gonna find them? 
 Do you see them?  Do you see Terrance and Phillip? 
 That's gonna take a long time! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Ladies and gentlemen of the American war effort, we salute you! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Tomorrow you will be risking your lives so that our children will have a better future... God bless you men. And God bless this filth free nation. Many of you will die. Die like blood bathed pigs.  So tonight, we at MAC present a NIGHT OF A HUNDRED STARS! Now without further ado, I give you... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Pint size pixie and darling of the indie movie scene, Winona Ryder! 
 Hi guys!  I'm T.V.'s Winona Ryder! 
 I want you all to know I'm super psyched to be here today.  You guys rock.  What you're doing for our country so sooo cool.  It's so real.  I've been acting since I was twelve and I can't distinguish between make believe and real life. 
 And then I confuse me real life with my big-screen one.  And sure, people get hurt, and I'm sorry about that but Christ, look at me.  It's not my fault that I can get any guy I want.  And that's reality to me.  But you guys... wow.  I mean, war, man. Fucking war.  It doesn't get any more real--  Now, this one goes out to you. 
 You know what I'm gonna do for you now, don't you? 
 WRONG! (Singing) The bells are ringin' For me and my gal! The birds are singin' For me and my gal!- 
 Dude, this is seriously lame. I didn't know we were gonna get all dirty and stuff. 
 What is it? 
 We're going to die here like baby mice who have had no milk in days.  Dry up into crunchy little pinkies. 
 We don't have watches. 
 Dude, you didn't say anything about watches. 
 Dude, we don't have watches. 
 Got it. 
 Check. 
 What's a butfor? 
 What's a dying giraffe sound like? 
 Kay. 
 Okay. 
 I HEARD YOU THE FIRST TIME! I'M NOT LOU FERIGNO FOR PETE'S SAKE! 
 Be careful, dude. 
 Damn, dude, that kid is fucked up. 
 (Singing) ....It's a hell of a TOWN!  And that's my New York Melodyyyyyy!!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Let's hear it again for the one and only Winona Ryder!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Next up we have a special treat... Please welcome, direct from Vegas- BIG GAY AL'S BIG GAY EXPERIENCE!!! 
 This guy is the coolest! 
 2 Totally man! 
 Happy!!! 
 (Imitating the Mole) Shut of ze Power, Cartman. Zis is very important, Cartman... Stupid British piece of shi- 
 (BAZZT!) 
! 
 Dude, if I was gay, I'd be just like Big Gay AL! 
 2 Me too!! 
 I don't think he's coming back, dude. 
 Oh thank you! Thank you for getting me out of there!! They locked me up for selling movie tickets to minors! 
 No! That's not Terrance or Phillip! 
 No! Please! I don't want to go back!! 
 He's super! Thanks for asking! All things considered he is better than okay! And it's peachee, nothing bugs him Everything is super when you're- Let's fight fight fight against Canada today!!!!!! 
 The execution is going to happen any moment... We must prepare. 
 Mph rmph rm! 
 Get everyone in hell ready. When the blood of Terrance and Phillip spills, the day is ours! 
 No! Not Saddam. Don't wake him... Uh... I'll tell him... 
 Agh!!! 
!! 
 Son of a gun!  HECK! 
 GO AWAY, KENNY!  IT'S NOT MY GOSH DARN 
! 
 Mph rmprmmh rm!! 
 I don't have proofs of purchases from Snacky Smores, Kenny! 
 MPH RMPH RMPH RMPH RM!!! 
 
!! 
 Found one! 
 Yep, that's a Canadian alright. 
 Sibi mammama. 
 So, thought you could hide from us, did you?! Take him away! 
 2 Sir, look at this! (Holding up a book) He was writing some kind of diary... 
 Diary?  What does it say? 
 2 (Reading) Cookie monster.  Banana. 
 Damn it! Come on, Mole we're running out of time! 
 You guys! Seriously! You guys! 
 What Cartman?! 
 Kenny! I saw Kenny again! 
 Oh, brother. 
 Did you shut the alarm off, Cartman? 
 Cartman?! 
 Whoops. 
 Oh shit! 
 Yeah... That was my bad, sorry. 
 We can't leave without you! 
 No, I mean WE CAN'T LEAVE WITHOUT YOU - we don't know where the hell we are!! 
 
! 
 
!! 
 Run, Stan!! 
 Forget him! The night will swallow him up. 
 You are under arrest!  Cuff 'em! 
 What? 
 So THIS must be the resistance the pentagon has been tracking! 
 Oh, son of a bitch... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER And now, for our big finale, the MOMENT YOU HAVE ALL BEEN WAITING FOR!!! 
 Oh, Phillip.  This cannot be good. 
 I know, Terrance.  This is quite the shitstorm we've found ourselves in this time. 
 KYLE'S MOM It is my pleasure to present to you, THE EXECUTION OF TERRANCE AND PHILLIP!!! 
 KYLE'S MOM Strap them in! 
 KYLE'S MOM Today is a great day for democracy! 
 Phillip, this is worse than that trip to Quebec City when I fell asleep in that disco. 
 I know, Terrance. I know. 
 Hello? Where the hell am I? Is anybody here? 
 
!!! 
 
!!! 
 Dude, weak... Can't go on... Dizzy... 
 What is that? 
 OH MY GOD!!! 
 KYLE'S MOM Gentlemen, do you have any last words? 
 Last words? Let's see... How aboot "GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF THIS CHAIR". How's that for last words? 
 
!! 
 We have just captured some Canadian Sympathizers! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER We will execute them along with Terrance and Phillip for your viewing pleasure! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Kyle?! 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Eric? 
 Hi, ma. 
 We also have a Canadian SPY who was hiding out in South Park!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Ike?! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER General... These are OUR CHILDREN! 
 They are Canadian sympathizers and they must be dealt with accordingly! 
 STAN'S MOTHER But they're CHILDREN! 
 Dude! Terrance and Phillip! Wow! Can I get your autographs?! 
 Sure, tubby, just as soon as we're killed. 
 KENNY'S MOTHER We can't kill these kids! 
 Listen mothers, YOU'RE the ones that started all this. Don't get all emotional NOW! 
 STAN'S MOTHER But we're doing all this to help our children's futures! 
 CARTMAN'S MOTHER Yes, I think shooting our children would adversely affect their futures. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER No... The General is right. 
 
!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Boobie... This is the only way you're ever going to learn. I have an opportunity here to teach you about consequences. 
 STAN'S MOTHER Sheila, you're going to far! Those are YOUR children! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER YES! AND I WILL NOT ALLOW MY CHILDREN TO BE RUINED BY SMUT!! (To Kyle) I am sorry young man, but I have had it up to here! STRAP THEM IN! 
 YOU GOTTA BE FUCKING KIDDING ME!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER KYLE BROVLOFSKI, YOU WATCH YOUR 
!! 
 Be not afraid... 
 (Weakly) What... 
 Behold my glory. 
 What... are you? 
 I am the clitoris. 
 The clitoris?! I DID IT!! I FOUND THE 
!! 
 Stan, your friends need you. They are in trouble and you must help them. 
 Wait, you're supposed to tell me how to get Wendy to like me. 
 There are more important matters right now... 
 NO WAY, DUDE! I'VE LOOKED ALL OVER FOR YOU, AND NOW YOU HAVE TO TELL ME HOW TO GET WENDY TO LIKE ME!! 
 Dude, she's eight years old, just get her some ice cream or something. 
 Of COURSE!! Ice cream!! 
 Now go, your friends are in danger... The USO show is a mile east of here, just over that ridge. The clitoris has spoken. 
 Stan! Stan are you okay?! 
 Wendy? 
 I see you failed in your mission. Terrance and Phillip must be dead by now. 
 Come on Stan, we have to hurry. The Canadian forces are about to attack!! 
 We begin with Terrance and Phillip!!! Throw the switch!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Goodbye, bastards! 
 Take that, bitch. 
 PHILLIP/TERRANCE 
!!! 
 MR. GARRISON THE CANADIANS ARE ATTACKING!! RUN FOR 
!! 
 
! 
 (Frying) WAGAGAHGHGH!! YOU GUYS!!! SERIOUSLY!!! 
 What's going on Terrance? 
 Canada is saving us!! 
 (Whispering) Have you finished? 
 Mph mph. 
 Then move out of the way. 
 I must be strong... I must be strong... 
 Damn it... 
 Goodbye, Saddam... 
 Come on! 
 Ned!  Behind you! 
 
 NED!!! NOOOOOOO!!!!! 
 
! (Zap) 
!! 
 HEY! THIS V-CHIP IS GETTING ALL SCREWY!! 
 ALRIGHT MEN!!!  FALL INTO FORMATION! "HUMAN SHIELD" UP FRONT THEN "OPERATION GET BEHIND THE DARKIES"!!! 
 REMEMBER, HUMAN SHIELD!  PROTECT OUR TANKS AND PLANES, TOO! 
 Holy Mother of Johosephat... 
 Hey! It's Mr. Garrison!! 
 MR. GARRISON Children... Take Mr. Hat... Please... Get him out of here... 
 Alright, squad... JUST LIKE I TOLD YOU... ONE!! 
 TWO! 
 THREE!! 
 What the- 
 GREAT PLAN, CHEF! 
 Operation Human Shield my ASS! 
 MR. MACKEY Die Canadian, mmkay?! 
 MR. MACKEY Mkay- 
!!! 
 STAN'S MOTHER My God... This is terrible... 
 KYLE'S MOTHER This is what we wanted! We wanted our children to be brought up in a smut-free environment!!! 
 KENNY'S MOTHER But we didn't want THIS. I just followed you 'cause I made a shitload of money selling Kenny t-shirts! 
 STAN'S MOTHER Oh Lord, what have we done...? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Wake up, people!  We all have to do things that aren't pretty sometimes! It's the not pretty things that make life worth fighting the not pretty things for! Why do you think children have to be born in hospitals? 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Why does it matter?! My plan is a perfect plan!!  Perfect!  Perfect! Perfect!!!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER WHERE ARE YOU GOING?! We need to stop the not pretty things from letting our children be born in hospitals! 
 STAN'S MOTHER We're going to find our boys! For God's sake Sheila, you almost had them killed!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Killed.  They should only be so lucky. Kyle wasn't even BORN in a hospital! 
 Did you hear that, Terrance? I farted! 
 You did? Just now? 
 Come on, we can take shelter in one of those buildings! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER AAAGHGAHGHGH!!! YOU DESTROYED MY 
!!!!!!!!!! 
 
! 
 Terrance! NO! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER 
!!!!!! 
 RAAGHGH!!!! MY TIME HAS COME!!! 
 Kyle... All those times I said you were a big dumb Jew... I didn't mean it. You're not a Jew. 
 Yes I am! 
 Baba mama! 
 
! (Noticing Mr. Hat in his hand) What the hell am I still holding this for?! 
 MR. GARRISON Mr. Hat! Noooooo! 
 Stan! 
 Dude, I found the clitoris! I think I can get Wendy to like me now! 
 Sweet. 
 (Sarcastic) Oh, that's swell, Stan. I guess all's well that ends well, huh? We can go home now. There's just one little thing left to tie up... WORLD WAR THREE!!! 
 CARTMAN/KYLE 
!!! 
 It's him! I told you!! Kenny's come to take us to the netherworld! 
 Mph rmph rmph rmph?! 
 Wait! He's not haunting us, he's trying to tell us something! 
 Mph rmph rm rmph rm! 
 Okay!  We can get you some proofs of purchases for Snacky Smores Kenny!  Just mellow the heck out! 
 Hey, pal, don't lose your head. 
 I'm glad you got that off your chest. 
 I guess he got the point. 
 2 Plastics are a cheap and efficient insulator for electrical applications. 
 Yes! Good! Fight and kill one another! 
 You're all part of Satan's army now! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER What the hell is going on?! 
 I am the dark master! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Oh no you don't! This is MY fight!! I don't need your help, Alan Dershwitz! 
 SILENCE!  I AM! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Oh. 
 YOU HAVE SPILLED THE BLOOD OF THE INNOCENTS. NOW THE WORLD BELONGS TO ME... NOW BEGINS TWO MILLION YEARS OF DARKNESS!!  AND ALL THANKS TO YOU!!! 
 Oh, good job, Mrs. Broflofski, thanks a lot. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER I... I was just trying to make the world a better place for children... 
 Yes... And in doing so, you brought enough anger and intolerance to the world to allow my coming. 
 KYLE'S MOTHER And I thought my mother was the master of guilt.  Geez Louise. 
 SILENCE!!!  NOW!!!  EVERYONE BOW DOWN TO ME!!! 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Oh God... What have I done... 
 Hey, I'm missing the party! 
 No! It can't be! 
 Did you miss me, buttercup? (Yelling out) All right, gang! I am your new ruler now! Everyone bow down to ME!! 
 
!!! 
 Oh, it's the bratty kid from hell. 
 You made a deal with Kenny that if he got ten proofs of purchases from Snacky Smores you'd grant him any wish. 
 And? 
 I TOLD you not to make that deal, Saddam! 
 Who gives a fuck?! I was just fucking with him! 
 What? 
 The deal's off, go away, guy. 
 No, Saddam. You made a deal. You can't just renege on a deal. That's lying. 
 Relax bitch!  You're better seen, not hear okay? 
 Now, let's start torturing people, shall we? We'll start with... (Looks at Cartman) THIS little fat kid first!! 
 AY!  Don't call me fat, buttfucker- 
 Holy shit Cartman!  What was that?! 
 How the fuck should I know!! 
 Look at that! 
 It's that v-chip thing that's inside you, Eric!  The polarity must have been reversed by the electric chair! 
 Oh boy! 
 
! 
 Yes! 
 Quick, Satan!  Do something! 
 FUCK A HUNK A SHIT, YOU RAT FUCK!!! 
 Hey, you need to watch your mouth, brat! 
 Try this on for size- 
 DRIPPING VAGINA EATING SON OF A PIGFUCKING CRACK WHORE!!! HAIRY COCK SLURPING MAGGOT FUUUUUCK!!!! 
!! 
 Hey buddy!  No need to stress! Let me make you a deal!  How about a lifetime supply of Snacky Smores and we just forget about this whole thing?! 
 Don't listen to him, Cartman! 
 Mrphmmmph!!! 
 (giving in)  Okay.  (then)  Not. 
 SUCK THE HOT SHIT FROM MY GURGLING ASS YOU BLOOD DRENCHED FROZEN TAMPON ON A 
!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
!!!!! 
 (To Satan) What are you waiting for, bitch?! Destroy him!! 
 Come on you weak, stupid cum bucket! Save me!! 
 Help you? You've destroyed my life and now you want me to help you?!  You're always making me feel like a piece of shit. 
 Come on guy, you know I only rib you because I love you so much! 
 If you love somebody then you treat them with respect!  You've never respected me! 
 Can we talk about this later?  Everyone is watching! 
 I don't care!  I want to talk about it now! 
 Ow, you're hurting me! 
 Listen guy, you're embarassing me in front of my friends!  You know how I get mad when I get embarassed. 
 Your little problems can wait til later, see? 
 Now do what I say and keep your fucking mouth shut! 
 THAT'S IT!  I HAVE HAD ENOUGH!!!! 
 NOOOOOOOOOOOOoooooooooo!!!!! Heeeeyyyy guyyyyy, relaaaaaxx..... 
 Saddam Hussein is dead! 
 You're quite a purveyor of filth, little boy! 
 Indeedy, that was a delicious choice of words! 
 Well, I learned it all from you guys. 
 Of course you did, cock fuck! 
 He spent so much time convincing me I was weak and stupid that I believed it myself. 
 Saddam didn't respect me.  All he wanted was sex.  But it took me so long to figure that out. 
 Here you go Satan- 
 Thank you. Give me the proofs of purchases. 
 Okay Kenny, I will keep the bargain. Any wish you want is yours. 
 Mph rmph rmpg rmph mm. 
 WHAT? 
 Are you sure, Kenny? 
 What did he say? 
 He said that his wish is for everyone who died in the war to come back. 
 Kenny, you realize this wish is the only chance for YOU not to be dead... 
 M mprh. Mph rmph rm rmph rm rmphm rmphm. Mm rmphm rmphm rhmphm. 
 Very well, then. I will put an end to the war as your wish and make everything as it was before the war started. But you Kenny, must remain dead. 
 Mph rm. 
 I must admit, I'm kind of relieved. It's too fucking cold up here. 
 Aren't there cold parts of hell? 
 Yeah, but it's a real dry cold. Here it's the humidity that gets me. I guess I'm destined to live in hell... alone... 
 Hello... What's this? 
 Hi there, little guy... Would you like to go to hell with me? 
 Thank you, Kenny. 
 Yeah, thanks for going back to hell for us. You're a real pal. 
 MR. GARRISON I... I'm alive... Where's Mr. Hat? 
 Whew, I'm sure glad that's over. 
 Yeah, but you know, I learned something today.  I learned that getting all worked up over fuck and shit and cockmaster is just stupid... You all focused so hard on erasing profanity that you forgot the most important thing... To love each other. 
 Yeah! You're all a bunch of stupid sons a bitches! 
 Mom, I'm a man. Just a man. And I'm going to have fun with profanity just like you and dad did when you were little. 
 Yeah, so what if you say uncle raper or dicksucker or, or- 
 KYLE'S MOTHER Shiteater- 
 STAN'S MOTHER -Or monkey fucker- 
 I'm sorry Stan, I guess you really DO get it after all! 
 Wendy... How would you like to go get some ice cream? 
 Sure, Stan! How did you know I loved ice cream? 
 My friend the clitoris told me. 
 Wow, I have a clitoris too. 
 Really? Where the hell do you keep it? It's huge. 
 But Wendy... What about Gregory? 
 Stan, I never cared for Gregory. 
 You didn't? 
 No, dude. Fuck him. Fuck him in the ear. 
 Cool! 
 (Singing) Thank my lucky stars Here before me now Is everything I'd ever hoped for- 
 Knew it in a word Saw it in a glance The only thing I think I'd die for 
 SHUT YOUR FUCKING FACE, UNCLEFUCKA! YOU'RE A COCK SUCKING ASS RAPING 
! YOU'RE AN, YES IT'S TRUE! NOBODY FUCKS UNCLES QUITE LIKE YOU! 
!!! 
 KENNY'S DAD This is all so wonderful.  I just wish our little Kenny could see all of this joy. 
 Oh he can, dude.  Look! 
) 
