 1. 
 Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd. His skin was pale and his eye was odd. He shaved the faces of gentlemen Who never thereafter were heard of again. He trod a path that few have trod, Did Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 2. 1   CONTINUED:                                                     1 
 He kept a shop in London town, Of fancy clients and good renown, And what if none of their souls were saved? They went to their maker impeccably shaved... 
 By Sweeney, By Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
. 
 Swing your razor wide, Sweeney! Hold it to the skies! Freely flows the blood of those Who moralize! 
 A lavabo and a fancy chair... 
 A mug of suds and a leather strop, An apron, a towel, a pail and a mop... 
 3. 1   CONTINUED: (2)                                               1 
 For neatness he deserves a nod, Does Sweeney Todd... 
 The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 (variously) Inconspicuous Sweeney was, Quick and quiet and clean `e was. Back of his smile, under his word, Sweeney heard music that nobody heard. Sweeney pondered and Sweeney planned, Like a perfect machine 'e planned, Sweeney was smooth, Sweeney was subtle, Sweeney would blink and rats would scuttle... 
 (variously) Sweeney was smooth, Sweeney was subtle, Sweeney would blink and rats would scuttle. Inconspicuous Sweeney was, Quick and quiet and clean 'e was, Like a perfect machine 'e was, Was Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeeeeneeeeey! On this explosive note we revolve -- away from the ghostly Furies-- 
 Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd. He served a dark and a vengeful god. What happened then-- 
 4. 1   CONTINUED: (3)                                                1 
 Well, who's to say? 
 And he wouldn't want us to give it away, 
 (variously) Not Sweeney, Not Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 I have sailed the world, beheld its wonders From the Dardanelles To the mountains of Peru, But there's no place like London--! 
 5. 2   CONTINUED:                                                    2 
 No, there's no place like London. 
 Mr. Todd...? 
 You are young. Life has been kind to you. You will learn. 
 Lord ... takes your breath away, doesn't it? 
 There's a hole in the world Like a great black pit And the vermin of the world Inhabit it And its morals aren't worth What a pig could spit And it goes by the name Of London. At the top of the hole Sit the privileged few Making mock of the vermin In the lower zoo, Turning beauty into filth and greed. I too Have sailed the world, and seen its wonders For the cruelty of men Is as wondrous as Peru, But there's no place like London! 
 6. 3   CONTINUED:                                                    3 
 I beg your indulgence, Anthony ... My mind is far from easy. In these once familiar streets I feel shadows everywhere... 
 Shadows...? 
 Ghosts. 
 There was a barber and his wife, And she was beautiful, A foolish barber and his wife, She was his reason and his life, And she was beautiful, And she was virtuous. And he was... (a breath) Naive. 
 (V.O.) There was another man who saw That she was beautiful, A pious vulture of the law, Who with a gesture of his claw Removed the barber from his plate. Then there was nothing but to wait And she would fall, So soft, So young, So lost, And oh, so beautiful! 
 7. 4   CONTINUED:                                                    4 
 And the lady, sir ... did she succumb? 
 Oh, that was many years ago... I doubt if anyone would know. 
 I owe you my life, Anthony. If you hadn't spotted me, I would be lost on the ocean still ... Thank you. 
 Will I see you again? 
 You might find me, if you like, around Fleet Street. 
 Until then, my friend. 
 8. 
 There's a hole in the world Like a great black pit And it's filled with people Who are filled with shit And the vermin of the world Inhabit it... 
 9. 9   CONTINUED:                                                    9 
 MRS. LOVETT A customer! 
 MRS. LOVETT Wait! What's yer rush? What's yer hurry? (She sticks the knife into the counter) You gave me such a-- (Wipes her hands on her apron) ) Fright. I thought you was a ghost. Half a minute, can'tcher? Sit! Sit ye down! (An order) Sit! (He obeys) All I meant is that I Haven't seen a customer for weeks. Did you come here for a pie, sir? (Todd nods. She flicks a bit of dust off a pie with a rag) Do forgive me if me head's a little vague-- Ugh! (She plucks something off the pie, examines it) What is that? But you'd think we had the plague-- (She drops it on the floor and stamps on it) From the way that people-- (She flicks something off the pie with her finger) Keep avoiding-- (Spotting it moving) No, you don't! (She smacks it with her hand) Heaven knows I try, sir! (Lifts her hand, looks at it) Tsk! (She wipes it on the edge of the counter) But there's no one comes in even to inhale-- 
 10. 9   CONTINUED: (2)                                                9 
 MRS. LOVETT And no wonder with the price of meat What it is-- (Grunt) When you get it. (Grunt) Never (Grunt) Thought I'd live to see the day Men'd think it was a treat Finding poor (Grunt) Animals (Grunt) Wot are dying in the street. Mrs. Mooney has a pie shop, Does a business, but I noticed something weird-- Lately all her neighbors' cats have disappeared. (Shrugs) Have to hand it to her-- Wot I calls Enterprise, Popping pussies into pies. Wouldn't do in my shop-- Just the thought of it's enough to make you sick. 
 11. 9    CONTINUED: (3)                                                9 
 MRS. LOVETT Trust me, dearie, it's going to take more than ale to wash that taste out. Come with me and we'll get you a nice tumbler of gin. 
 MRS. LOVETT Isn't this homey now? Me cheery wallpaper was a real bargain too, it being only partly singed when the chapel burnt down .... 
 12. 10   CONTINUED:                                                    10 
 MRS. LOVETT There's a good boy, now you sit down and warm your bones, you look chilled through. 
 Isn't that a room over the shop? If times are so hard, why don't you rent it out? 
 MRS. LOVETT Up there? Oh, no one will go near it... 
 MRS. LOVETT People think it's haunted. 
 Haunted? 
 MRS. LOVETT And who's to say they're wrong? ... You see, years ago, something happened up there. Something not very nice... The flickering flame from the fire begins to cast a more intense red glow on her face... 
 MRS. LOVETT There was a barber and his wife, And he was beautiful, A proper artist with a knife, But they transported him for life. (Sighs) And he was beautiful... 
 13. 10   CONTINUED: (2)                                               10 
 MRS. LOVETT Barker, his name was -- Benjamin Barker. 
 Transported? What was his crime? 
 MRS. LOVETT (with an edge) Foolishness. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) He had this wife, you see, Pretty little thing, Silly little nit Had her chance for the moon on a string-- Poor thing. Poor thing. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) There was this Judge, you see, Wanted her like mad, Every day he'd send her a flower, But did she come down from her tower? Sat up there and sobbed by the hour, Poor fool. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Ah, but there was worse yet to come, Poor thing. 
 14. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) The Beadle calls on her, all polite, Poor thing, poor thing. The Judge, he tells her, is all contrite, He blames himself for her dreadful plight She must come straight to his house tonight! Poor thing, poor thing. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Of course, when she goes there, Poor thing, poor thing, They're having this ball all in masks. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) There's no one she knows there, Poor dear, poor thing, She wanders tormented, and drinks, Poor thing. The Judge has repented, she thinks, Poor thing. "Oh, where is Judge Turpin?" she asks. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) He was there, all right-- Only not so contrite! She wasn't no match for such craft, you see, 
 15. 13   CONTINUED:                                                     13 
 (V.O.) 
...! 
 
 .....! 
 Would no one have mercy on her? 
 MRS. LOVETT So it is you -- Benjamin Barker. 
 Where's Lucy?! Where's my wife?! 
 MRS. LOVETT She poisoned herself. Arsenic from the apothecary on the corner. I tried to stop her but she wouldn't listen to me. And he's got your daughter. 
 He? Judge Turpin? 
 MRS. LOVETT Adopted her like his own. 
 Fifteen years of sweating in a living hell on a false charge. Fifteen years dreaming that I might come home to find a loving wife and child... 
 16. 14   CONTINUED:                                                    14 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, I can't say the years have been particularly kind to you, Mr. Barker, but you still-- 
 No, not Barker. That man is dead. It's Todd now. Sweeney Todd ... And he will have his revenge. 
 Judge Turpin and the Beadle will pay for what they did. 
 First I must have my shop back. 
 MRS. LOVETT Come along... 
 MRS. LOVETT Not to worry, a touch of oil will put that right. (she turns back to Todd) ... Nothing to be afraid of, love, come in. 
 17. 16   CONTINUED:                                                   16 
 I don't believe it... 
 MRS. LOVETT When they came for the girl, I hid 'em. I thought, who knows? Maybe the silly blighter'll be back again. Cracked in the head, wasn't I? 
 MRS. LOVETT Those handles is chased silver, ain't they? 
 Silver, yes... 
 18. 16   CONTINUED: (2)                                             16 
 (Picking out a larger razor) You there, my friend, Come, let me hold you. 
 MRS. LOVETT I'm your friend too, Mr. Todd. If you only knew, Mr. Todd-- Ooh, Mr. Todd, You're warm In my hand. You've come home. Always had a fondness for you, I did. 
 --My lucky friends. Till now your shine Was merely silver. Friends, You shall drip rubies, You'll soon drip precious Rubies... 
 MRS. LOVETT Never you fear, Mr. Todd, You can move in here, Mr. Todd. Splendors you never have dreamed All your days Will be yours. I'm your friend. 
 19. 16   CONTINUED: (3)                                              16 
 Leave me now... 
 At last my arm is complete again. 
 Lift your razor high, Sweeney! Hear it singing, "Yes!" Sink it in the rosy skin Of righteousness! 
 (variously) His voice was soft, his manner mild. He seldom laughed but he often smiled, He'd seen how civilized men behave. He never forgot and he never forgave, Not Sweeney, Not Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 20. 
 Green finch and linnet bird, Nightingale, blackbird, How is it you sing? How can you jubilate, Sitting in cages, Never taking wing? Outside the sky waits, Beckoning, beckoning, Just beyond the bars. How can you remain, Staring at the rain, Maddened by the stars? How is it you sing Anything? How is it you sing? 
 My cage has many rooms, Damask and dark. Nothing there sings, Not even my lark. Larks never will, you know, When they're captive. 
 21. 17   CONTINUED:                                                     17 
 Alms! ... Alms! ... For a miserable woman On a miserable chilly morning... (Anthony drops a coin into her hand) Thank yer, sir, thank yer. 
 Ma'am, could tell me whose house this is? 
 That's the great Judge Turpin's house that is. 
 And the young lady who resides there? 
 That's Johanna, his pretty little ward. Keeps her snug, he does, all locked up ... So don't you go trespassing there or it's a good whipping for you -- or any other young man with mischief on his mind... 
 'Ow would you like a little muff, dear, A little jig jig A little bounce around the bush? Wouldn't you like to push me parsley? 
 22. 17   CONTINUED: (2)                                               17 
 Alms! ... Alms!... For a desperate woman... 
 I feel you, Johanna, I feel you. I was half convinced I'd waken, Satisfied enough to dream you. Happily I was mistaken, Johanna! I'll steal you, Johanna, I'll steal you... 
 Come in, lad. Come in... 
 23. 18   CONTINUED:                                                    18 
 ... you were looking for Hyde Park, you say? 
 Yes, it's terribly large on the map but I keep getting lost... 
 Sit down, lad, sit down. 
 It's embarrassing for a sailor to lose his bearings, but, well, there you are. 
 A sailor, eh? 
 Yes, sir. The "Bountiful" out of Plymouth. 
 (handing him a snifter of brandy) A sailor must know the ways of the world, yes? ... Must be practiced in the ways of the world ... Would you say you are practiced, boy? 
 Sir? 
 Oh, yes ... such practices ... the geishas of Japan ... the concubines of Siam .. the catamites of Greece ... the harlots of India ... I have them all here ... Drawings of them .... (MORE) 
 24. 18   CONTINUED: (2)                                             18 JUDGE (cont'd) (he turns again to Anthony) ... All the vile things you've done with your whores. 
 Would you like to see? 
 (standing) I think there's been some mistake-- 
 Oh, I think not. You gandered at my ward, Johanna ... You gandered at her ... Yes, sir, you gandered. 
 (glancing nervously back at the Beadle) I meant no harm-- 
 Your meaning is immaterial. Mark me: if I see your face again on this street, you'll rue the day your bitch of a mother gave you birth. 
 My Johanna isn't one of your bloody cock-chafers! My Johanna is not to be gandered at! 
 Hyde Park is that way, young sir ... A right and then a left, then straight on, you see? ... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 25. 19   CONTINUED:                                                    19 BEADLE (cont'd) (points) ... Over there. 
 You heard Judge Turpin, little man. 
 Next time it'll be your pretty brains all over the pavement. 
 I'll steal you, Johanna, I'll steal you! Do they think that walls can hide you? Even now I'm at your window. I am in the dark beside you, Buried sweetly in your yellow hair. 
 26. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20 
 I feel you, Johanna, And one day I'll steal you. Till I'm with you then, I'm with you there, Sweetly buried in your yellow hair... 
 He's here every Thursday? 
 MRS. LOVETT Like clockwork. Eyetalian. All the rage he is. 
 Not for long. 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh Mr. T., do you really think you can do it? 
 By tomorrow they'll all be flocking to me like sheep to be shorn-- 
 27. 22   CONTINUED:                                                   22 
 MRS. LOVETT (seeing the Beadle, pulling his arm) Come along now, dear, he might recognize you-- 
 I will do what I have vowed to do ... (he continues to glare at the Beadle, his voice low) ... Come closer, my friend, closer... 
 Ladies and gentlemen! May I have your attention, perlease? Do you wake every morning in shame and despair To discover your pillow is covered with hair Wot ought not to be there? Well, ladies and gentlemen, From now on you can waken at ease. You need never again have a worry or care, I will show you a miracle marvelous rare, Gentlemen, you are about to see something wot rose from the dead! (A woman gasps, he smiles and wiggles a finger no) On the top of my head. 
 'Twas Pirelli's Miracle Elixir, That's wot did the trick, sir, True, sir, true. Was it quick, sir? Did it in a tick, sir? Just like an elixir Ought to do! (To a Bald Man) How about a bottle, mister? Only costs a penny, guaranteed. (Pours a drop on the bald man's head) Does Pirelli's 
 28. 22   CONTINUED: (2)                                               22 
 (loudly, to Mrs. Lovett) Pardon me, ma'am, what's that awful stench? 
 MRS. LOVETT Are we standing near an open trench? 
 (to a woman in the crowd) Must be standing near an open trench! 
 Buy Pirelli's Miracle Elixir: Anything wot's slick, sir, Soon sprouts curls. Try Pirelli's! When they see how thick, sir, You can have your pick, sir, Of the girls! 
 (sniffing bottle of Elixir) What is this? 
 MRS. LOVETT (sniffing another customer's bottle) What is this? 
 Smells like piss. 
 29. 22   CONTINUED: (3)                                              22 
 MRS. LOVETT Smells like -- phew! 
 This is piss. Piss with ink. 
 Let Pirelli's Activate your roots, sir-- 
 Keep it off your boots, sir-- Eats right through. 
 Yes, get Pirelli's! Use a bottle of it! Ladies seem to love it-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Flies do too! 
 I am Adolfo Pirelli, Da king of da barbers, da barber of kings, E buon giorno, good day, I blow you a kiss! (he does so) And I, da so-famous Pirelli, I wish-a to know-a Who has-a da nerve-a to say My elixir is piss! Who says this?! 
 I do. (Todd moves forward boldly.) I am Mr. Sweeney Todd of Fleet Street. I have opened a bottle of Pirelli's elixir, and I say to you that it is nothing but an arrant fraud, concocted from piss and ink. 
 30. 22   CONTINUED: (4)                                              22 
 And furthermore --   "signor" -- I have serviced no kings,   yet I wager I can shave a cheek with   ten times more dexterity that any   street mountebank. 
 You see these razors? 
 MRS. LOVETT (to the crowd) The finest in England. 
 (glaring at Pirelli) I lay them against five pounds you are no match for me. You hear me, sir? Either accept my challenge or reveal yourself as a sham. 
 MRS. LOVETT Bravo, bravo. 
 You hear zis foolish man? Watch and see how he will regret his folly! 
 Friends, who's for a free shave? 
 Will Beadle Bamford be the judge? 
 31. 22   CONTINUED: (5)                                            22 
 Glad, as always, to oblige my friends and neighbors (to the crowd) ... Let the challenge commence! 
 Ready? 
 Ready! 
 Ready. 
 The fastest, smoothest shave is the winner. 
 (while mixing furiously) Now, signorini, signori, We mix-a da lather But first-a you gather Around, signorini, signori, You looking a man 
 32. 22   CONTINUED: (6)                                               22 
 To shave-a da face, To cut-a da hair, Require da grace Require da flair, For if-a you slip, You nick da skin, You clip-a da chin, You rip-a da lip a bit Beyond-a repair! 
 To shave-a da face Or even a part Widout it-a smart Require da heart. Not just-a da flash, It take-a panache, It take-a da passion For da art. 
 To shave-a da face, To trim-a da beard, To make-a da bristle Clean like a whistle, Dis is from early infancy Da talent give to me 
 33. 22   CONTINUED: (7)                                               22 
 (blowing whistle) The winner is Todd. 
 MRS. LOVETT (feeling the customer's cheek) Smooth as a baby's arse! -- (to Todd) - - Well done, dear! 
 (a profound bow) Sir, I bow to a skill far defter than my own. 
 The five pounds. Pirelli produces a distinctive chatelaine purse and removes a five pound note, gives it to Todd: 
 Here, sir. And may the good Lord smile on you -- (a quick stab of a smile) -- Until we meet again. 
 Come, boy. 
 We're pulling out, sir? 
 34. 22   CONTINUED: (8)                                            22 
 (snarling) We're pulling out, yes. Quickly. 
. 
 Mr. Todd, sir, do you have an establishment of your own? 
 MRS. LOVETT He certainly does. Sweeney Todd's Tonsorial Parlor -- above my meatpie emporium in Fleet Street. 
 I thank you for your honest adjudication, sir. You are a paragon of integrity. 
 Well, I try to do my best for my friends and neighbors ... Your establishment is in Fleet Street, you say? 
 Yes, sir. 
 Then, Mr. Todd, you will surely see me there before the week is out. 
 You will be welcome, Beadle Bamford, and I guarantee to give you, without a penny's charge, the closest shave you will ever know. 
 35. 
 MRS. LOVETT ... Like to give me a coronary right there! What if he had recognized you! Lord, my heart was beating a mile a minute, just like a little finch it was. Aren't those lovely birds now? Always so twittery and happy... 
 Sweeney pondered and Sweeney planned. Like a perfect machine 'e planned... 
 Barbing the hook, baiting the trap, Setting it out for the Beadle to snap... 
 36. 23   CONTINUED:                                                23 
 MRS. LOVETT ... Suppose it's just me gentle heart, but I do hate to see a boy treated like that, no better than your Aunt Doreen's dog -- Mr. Todd, are you listening to me? 
 Of course. 
 37. 
 MRS. LOVETT ... It's not much of a chair, I'll grant, but it'll serve. Was me poor Albert's chair. Sat in it all day long he did, after his leg give out from the gout, poor dear. 
 Why doesn't the Beadle come? "Before the week is out," that's what he said. 
 MRS. LOVETT And who says the week's out? It's only Tuesday. 
 MRS. LOVETT Easy now. Hush, love, hush. Don't distress yourself, What's your rush? Keep your thoughts Nice and lush. Wait. (he continues to pace) Hush, love, hush. Think it through. Once it bubbles, Then what's to do? Watch it close. Let it brew. Wait. 
 38. 27   CONTINUED:                                                   27 
 MRS. LOVETT I've been thinking, flowers-- Maybe daisies-- To brighten up the room. Don't you think some flowers, Pretty daisies, Might relieve the gloom? Ah, wait, love, wait. 
 (to razor) And the Judge? When will we get to him? 
 MRS. LOVETT Can't you think of nothing else? Always broodin' away on yer wrongs what happened heaven knows how many years ago... 
 MRS. LOVETT Gillyflowers, maybe, `Stead of daisies... I don't know, though... What do you think? 
 39. 27   CONTINUED: (2)                                               27 
 Mr. Todd! Thank God I've found you -- (Todd turns, closing the razor, as Anthony sees Mrs. Lovett) ... Oh, I'm sorry, excuse me... 
 MRS. LOVETT Mrs. Lovett, sir. 
 A pleasure, ma'am -- (continues to Todd) -- You see, there's a girl who needs my help -- such a sad girl, and lonely, but beautiful too and-- 
 Slow down, Anthony. 
 (takes a breath) Yes, I'm sorry ... This girl has a guardian so tyrannical that he keeps her locked away. But then this morning she dropped this ... (produces the key) ... It must be a sign that Johanna wants me to help her -- that's her name, Johanna -- and Turpin that of her guardian. A judge of some sort... 
 ... I've met him, Mr. Todd, and he is - - unnatural ... Once he goes to court, I'm going to slip into the house and release her -- and beg her to come away with me. Tonight. 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh, this is all terribly romantic. 
 40. 27   CONTINUED: (3)                                               27 
 Yes, but -- you see -- I don't know anyone in London -- (to Todd) -- and I need somewhere safe to bring her till I've hired a coach to take us to Plymouth. 
 If I could keep her here, just for an hour or two, I would forever be in your debt. 
 MRS. LOVETT Bring her here, dear. 
 Thank you, ma'am ... (to Todd) ... Mr. Todd? 
 The girl may come. 
 (taking his hand) Thank you, my friend. He goes. 
 MRS. LOVETT Seems like the fates are favoring you at last, Mr. T. (Todd grunts, unhappy) What is it, love? You'll have her back before the day is out. 
 For a few hours? Before he carries her off to the other end of England? 
 41. 27   CONTINUED: (4)                                               27 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh, him? Let him bring her here and then, since you're so hot for a little -- (makes a throat-cutting gesture) -- that's the throat to slit, dear. 
 MRS. LOVETT Poor little Johanna. All those years without a scrap of motherly affection. Well, we'll soon see to that... 
 (alert, sees something) What's this? 
 MRS. LOVETT Look at that face, he's up to mischief. 
 Go -- keep the boy below with you. 
 Signora, is Mr. Todd at home? 
 MRS. LOVETT Plying his trade upstairs, don'tcher know ... (she stands on the staircase, blocking their way, looking at Toby) (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 42. 28   CONTINUED:                                                    28 MRS. LOVETT (cont'd) ... Would you look at it, now! Don't look like it's had a kind word since half past never! 
 Ma'am...? 
 MRS. LOVETT (to Pirelli) You wouldn't mind if I gave him a nice juicy meat pie, would yer? 
 (impatient) Yes, yes, whatever you like. 
 MRS. LOVETT Come with me now. Your teeth is strong, I hope? 
 Mr. Todd. 
 Signor Pirelli. 
 (reverting to his natural Irish) Call me Danny. Daniel Higgins' the name when it's not professional ... I'd like me five quid back, if'n ya don't mind. 
 Why? 
 Because you entered into our little wager on false pretenses, me friend ... And so you might remember to be more forthright in the future, you'll be handing over half your profits to me, share and share alike... 
 43. 29   CONTINUED:                                                    29 
 ... Mr. Benjamin Barker. 
 MRS. LOVETT That's my boy, tuck in. 
 MRS. LOVETT Like to see a man with a healthy appetite. Reminds me of my dear Albert, like to gorge himself to bloatation, he did. He didn't have your nice full head though-- 
 To tell the truth -- (he pulls off the wig which covers his own short-cropped hair) -- it gets awful hot. 31   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DAY                                        31 
 ... yes, this will do very nicely ... You don't remember me. Well, why should you? I was just a down and out Irish pug you hired for a couple of weeks -- sweeping up hair and the like -- (He picks up one of Todd's razors) But I remember these -- And how could I ever forget you, Benjamin Barker? (MORE) 
 44. 31   CONTINUED:                                                     31 PIRELLI (cont'd) I would sit right there and watch you, and dream of the day I could be a proper barber meself ... You might say you were an inspiration to me. 
 So, do we have a deal, or should I run down the street for me pal Beadle Bamford? What do you say to that now, Mr. Sweeney T--? 
 MRS. LOVETT My my my, always work to be done. Spic- and-span, that's my motto. Cleanliness is next to whatever-it-is. So, ah, how did you end up with that dreadful Eyetalian? 
 (still eating happily) Got me from the workhouse 'e did. Been there since I was born. Got no mum, got nobody. A wasted soul, that's what I am -- (a sudden, urgent thought) -- Oh God! He's got an appointment with his tailor-- 
 If he's late, he'll blame me--! 
 45. 32   CONTINUED:                                                    32 
 MRS. LOVETT Wait--! 
 Signor, you got an appointment... 
 Signor Pirelli has been called away. You better run after him. 
 Oh no, sir. I better wait for him here or it'll be a lashing. He's a great one for the lashings. 
 So, hmmm, Mrs. Lovett gave you a pie, did she? 
 She's a real lady. Model of all true Christian virtue. 
 That she is ... that she is. But if I know a growing boy, there's still room for some more pie, eh? 
 46. 34   CONTINUED:                                                    34 
 I'd say, sir -- (pats his stomach) -- An aching void. 
 Then why don't you run downstairs and wait for your master there? There'll be another pie in it for you, I'm sure... 
 No, I should stay here. 
 (a   sudden inspiration) I know   -- why don't you tell Mrs. Lovett   I said to give you a nice big tot of   gin? 
 (leaps up) Gin, sir?! Thanking you kindly, sir! You're a Christian indeed! 
 47. 34   CONTINUED: (2)                                               34 
 His hands were quick, his fingers strong. It stung a little but not for long. 
 And those who thought him a simple clod Were soon reconsidering under the sod... 
 Consigned there with a friendly prod From Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 48. 
 This is the second time, sir, that you have been brought before this bench. Though it is my earnest wish to ever temper justice with mercy, your persistent dedication to a life of crime is an abomination before God and man. 
 I therefore sentence you to hang by the neck until you are dead and may the Lord have mercy on your soul. 
 This court is adjourned. 
 Thank you, your Honor. Just the sentence we wanted. 
 Was he guilty? 
 Well, if he didn't do it, he's surely done something to warrant a hanging. 
 (quietly) What man has not? 
 49. 36   CONTINUED:                                                     36 
 Sir? 
 No matter -- Come, walk home with me. I have news for you, my friend. In order to shield her from the evils of this world, I have decided to marry my dear Johanna. 
 Ah, sir, happy news indeed. 
 Strange, though, when I offered myself to her she showed a certain ... reluctance. 
 Excuse me, my lord, May I request, my lord, Permission, my lord, to speak? Forgive me if I suggest, my lord, You're looking less than your best, my lord, There's powder upon your vest, my lord. And stubble upon your cheek, And ladies, my lord, are weak. 
 Stubble, you say? Perhaps at times I am a little overhasty with my morning ablutions... 
 (cheerily) Fret not though, my lord, I know a place, my lord, A barber, my lord, of skill. Thus armed with a shaven face, my lord, Some eau de cologne to brace my lord And musk to enhance the chase, my lord, You'll dazzle the girl until She bows to your every will. 
 A barber, eh? Take me to him. 
 50. 36   CONTINUED: (2)                                               36 
 I am honored, my lord. His name is Todd ... Sweeney Todd. And he is the very last word in barberin'. 
 MRS. LOVETT You ought to slow down a bit, lad. It'll go to your head. 
 Weaned on the stuff, I was. They used to give it to us at the workhouse, so's we could sleep. Not that you'd ever want to sleep in that place, ma'am. Not with the things wot happen in the dark. 
 MRS. LOVETT That's nice, dear ... I think I'll just pop in on Mr. Todd for a tick. You'll be all right here? 
 Leave the bottle. 
 MRS. LOVETT Gawd, the lad is drinking me out of house and home, how long until Pirelli gets back? 
 He won't be back. 
 MRS. LOVETT (instantly suspicious) Mr. T., you didn't! 
 51. 38   CONTINUED:                                                    38 
 MRS. LOVETT (spinning on Todd) You're barking mad! Killing a man wot done you no harm! 
 He recognized me from the old days. He tried to blackmail me -- half my earnings. 
 MRS. LOVETT (relieved) Oh well, that's a different matter! For a moment there I thought you'd lost your marbles! 
 MRS. LOVETT Ooooh! All that blood! Enough to make you come all over gooseflesh, ain't it? Poor bugger. Oh, well. 
 MRS. LOVETT (looking through purse) Three quid! Well, waste not, want not, I always say... (she tucks the purse into her dress) ... Now what are we going to do about the boy? 
 Send him up. 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh, we don't need to worry about him, he's a simple thing. I'll pawn him off with some story. 
 52. 38   CONTINUED: (2)                                              38 
 (cold) Send him up, woman. 
 MRS. LOVETT (quickly) Now, Mr. T., surely one's enough for today. Don't want to indulge yourself, after all ... (she busily starts to straighten up the room) ... 'Sides, I was thinking about hiring a lad to help around the shop, me poor knees not being what they used to be. 
 Anything you say. 
 MRS. LOVETT 'Course we'll have to stock up on the gin, the boy drinks like a Barbary sailor-- 
 The Judge. 
 Justice ... Justice. 
 53. 38   CONTINUED: (3)                                               38 
 Mr. Todd? 
 At your service ... An honor to receive your patronage, my lord. 
 You know me, sir? 
 (a polite bow) Who in this wide world is not familiar with the honored Judge Turpin? 
 These premises are hardly prepossessing and yet the Beadle tells me you are the most accomplished of all the barbers in the city. 
 That is gracious of him, sir ... (indicates for the Judge to sit) ... Sit, if you please, sir. Sit. 
 And what may I do for you today, sir? A stylish trimming of the hair? A soothing skin massage? 
 You see, sir, a man infatuate with love, Her ardent and eager slave. So fetch the pomade and pumice stone And lend me a more seductive tone, 
 54. 38   CONTINUED: (4)                                              38 
 The closest I ever gave. 
 You're in a merry mood today, Mr. Todd. 
 (mixing lather) 'Tis your delight, sir, catching fire From one man to the next. 
 'Tis true, sir, love can still inspire The blood to pound, the heart leap higher. 
 Than love, sir? 
 More than love, sir. 
 What, sir? 
 Women. 
 Ah yes, women. 
 Pretty women. 
 55. 38   CONTINUED: (5)                                            38 
 Now then, my friend. Now to your purpose. Patience, enjoy it. Revenge can't be taken in haste. 
 (opening his eyes) Make haste, and if we wed, You'll be commended, sir. 
 My lord... (Goes to him) And who, may it be said, Is your intended, sir? 
 My ward. 
 And pretty as a rosebud. 
 Pretty as her mother? 
 (mildly puzzled) What? What was that? 
 Oh, nothing, sir. Nothing. May we proceed? 
 Pretty women... Fascinating... Sipping coffee, Dancing... 
 56. 38   CONTINUED: (6)                                   38 
 Silhouetted... 
 Stay within you... 
 Glancing... 
 Stay forever... 
 Breathing lightly... 
 Pretty women... 
 Then they leave... Even when they leave you And vanish, they somehow Can still remain There with you, There with you. 
 Even when they leave, They still Are there. They're there. 
 57. 38   CONTINUED: (7)                                                38 
 At their mirrors... 
 In their gardens... 
 Letter-writing... 
 Flower-picking... 
 Weather-watching... 
 Pretty   women, yes! Pretty   women, sir! Pretty   women! Pretty   women, sir! 
 Pretty women, here's to Pretty women, all the Pretty women-- 
 Mr. Todd! I've seen Johanna! She said she'll leave with me tonight--! 
 You! -- There is indeed a higher power to warn me thus in time-- 
 58. 38   CONTINUED: (8)                                               38 
 Johanna elope with you? Deceiving slut! -- I'll lock her up in some obscure retreat where neither you nor any other vile creature shall ever lay eyes on her again--! 
 And as for you, barber, it is all too clear what company you keep. Service them well and hold their custom -- for you'll have none of mine. 
 Mr. Todd -- you have to help me -- I've talked to Johanna and--! 
 OUT! OUT, I SAY! 
 MRS. LOVETT All this shouting and running about, what's happened--? 
 I had him -- and then-- 
 MRS. LOVETT The sailor busted in, I know, I saw them both running down the street and I said-- 
 59. 38   CONTINUED: (9)                                              38 
 I had him! His throat was bare Beneath my hand--! 
 MRS. LOVETT There, there, dear. Don't fret-- 
 (spins on her violently) No, I had him! His throat was there, And he'll never come again! 
 MRS. LOVETT Easy now. Hush, love, hush. I keep telling you-- 
 When?! 
 MRS. LOVETT What's your rush? 
 Why did I wait? You told me to wait! Now he'll never come again... 
 There's a hole in the world Like a great black pit And it's filled with people Who are filled with shit And the vermin of the world Inhabit it-- But not for long! 
 They all deserve to die! Tell you why, Mrs. Lovett, Tell you why: Because in all of the whole human race, Mrs. Lovett There are two kinds of men and only two. There's the one staying put In his proper place 
 60. 38   CONTINUED: (10)                                           38 
 No, we all deserve to die! Even you, Mrs. Lovett, Even I. Because the lives of the wicked should be-- (slashes at the air violently) Made brief. For the rest of us, death Will be a relief-- We all deserve to die! 
 And I'll never see Johanna, No, I'll never hug my girl to me-- 
 Finished! 
 All right! You, sir, How about a shave? Come and visit Your good friend, Sweeney--! 
 61. 
 You, sir, too, sir-- Welcome to the grave! I will have vengeance, I will have salvation! 
 Who, sir? You, sir? No one's in the chair-- Come on, come on, Sweeney's waiting! I want you bleeders! 
 You, sir -- anybody! Gentlemen, now don't be shy! Not one man, no, Nor ten men, Nor a hundred Can assuage me-- I will have you! 
 And I will get him back Even as he gloats. In the meantime I'll practice On less honorable throats-- 
 And my Lucy lies in ashes And I'll never see my girl again, But the work waits, I'm alive at last 
 62. 44   CONTINUED:                                                   44 
 MRS. LOVETT That's all very well, but what are we going to do about -- (kicks the chest) -- the dear departed? 
 MRS. LOVETT Listen! Do you hear me? Get a hold of yourself! 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh, you great useless thing, come on-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Sit down. 
 63. 
 MRS. LOVETT There, drink it down -- all the way -- that's right ... (he does so) ... Now, we got a body molderin' away upstairs, what do you intend we should do about that? 
 Later on, when it's dark, we'll take him to some secret place and bury him. 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, yes, of course, we could do that. I don't suppose he's got any relatives going to come poking around looking for him... 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, you know me, sometimes bright ideas just pop right into my head, and I keep thinking... Seems a downright shame... 
 Shame? 
 MRS. LOVETT Seems an awful waste... Such a nice plump frame Wot's-his-name Has... Had... Has... Nor it can't be traced. Business needs a lift-- Debts to be erased-- Think of it as thrift, 
 64. 48   CONTINUED:                                                     48 
 Ah! 
 MRS. LOVETT Good, you got it. (She warms to the idea) Take, for instance, Mrs. Mooney and her pie shop. Business never better, using only Pussycats and toast. And a pussy's good for maybe six or Seven at the most. And I'm sure they can't compare As far as taste-- 
 Mrs. Lovett, What a charming notion, 
 Eminently practical and yet Appropriate as always. Mrs. Lovett, how I've lived without you All these years I'll never know! How delectable! Also undetectable. 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, it does seem a Waste... It's an idea... Think about it... Lots of other gentlemen'll Soon be coming for a shave, 
 65. 48   CONTINUED: (2)                                            48 
 For what's the sound of the world out there? 
 MRS. LOVETT What, Mr. Todd, What, Mr. Todd, What is that sound? 
 Those crunching noises pervading the air? 
 MRS. LOVETT Yes, Mr. Todd, Yes, Mr. Todd, Yes, all around-- 
 It's man devouring man, my dear, 
 And who are we To deny it in here? 
 MRS. LOVETT Then who are we To deny it in here? Music continues under: 
 Ah, these are desperate times, Mrs. Lovett, and desperate measures are called for. 
 MRS. LOVETT Here we are now, hot out of the oven... 
 66. 48   CONTINUED: (3)                                               48 
 What is that? 
 MRS. LOVETT It's priest. Have a little priest. 
 Is it really good? 
 MRS. LOVETT Sir, it's too good, At least. Then again, they don't commit sins of the flesh, So it's pretty fresh. 
 (looking at it) Awful lot of fat. 
 MRS. LOVETT Only where it sat. 
 Haven't you got poet Or something like that? 
 MRS. LOVETT No, you see the trouble with poet Is, how do you know it's Deceased? Try the priest. 
 ("tasting" it) Mmm. Heavenly. 
 MRS. LOVETT Not as hearty as bishop, perhaps, but not as bland as curate, either. 
 MRS. LOVETT Lawyer's rather nice. 
 If it's for a price. 
 67. 48   CONTINUED: (4)                                               48 
 MRS. LOVETT Order something else, though, to follow, Since no one should swallow It twice. 
 Anything that's lean. 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, then, if you're British and loyal, You might enjoy Royal Marine. Anyway, it's clean. Though, of course, it tastes of wherever it's been. 
 (looking past her to imaginary oven) Is that squire On the fire? 
 MRS. LOVETT Mercy no, sir, Look closer, You'll notice it's grocer. 
 Looks thicker. More like vicar. 
 MRS. LOVETT No, it has to be grocer -- it's green. 
 The history of the world, my love-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Save a lot of graves, Do a lot of relatives favors... 
 --Is those below serving those up above. 
 MRS. LOVETT Everybody shaves, So there should be plenty of flavors... 
 How gratifying for once to know-- 
 68. 48   CONTINUED: (5)                                              48 
 MRS. LOVETT Since marine doesn't appeal to you, how about rear admiral? 
 Too salty. I prefer general. 
 MRS. LOVETT With or without his privates? -- "With" is extra. 
 What is that? 
 MRS. LOVETT It's fop. Finest in the shop. Or we have some shepherd's pie peppered With actual shepherd On top. And I've just begun. Here's a politician -- so oily It's served with a doily-- Have one? 
 Put it on a bun. (She looks at him quizzically) Well, you never know if it's going to run. 
 MRS. LOVETT Try the friar. Fried, it's drier. 
 No, the clergy is really Too coarse and too mealy. 
 MRS. LOVETT Then actor-- That's compacter. 
 69. 48   CONTINUED: (6)                                            48 
 Yes, and always arrives overdone. (he is suddenly dark and purposeful) I'll come again when you Have Judge on the menu... 
 MRS. LOVETT True, we don't have Judge -- yet -- but would you settle for the next best thing? 
 What's that? 
 MRS. LOVETT Executioner. 
 Have charity towards the world, my pet-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Yes, yes, I know, my love-- 
 We'll take the customers that we can get. 
 MRS. LOVETT High-born and low, my love. 
 We'll not discriminate great from small. No, we'll serve anyone-- 
 MRS. LOVETT We'll serve anyone-- 
 70. 
 So it's true. 
 Sir ... A gentlemen knocks before entering a lady's room. 
 Indeed he does ... But I see no lady. 
 I told myself the sailor was lying ... I told myself this was a cruel fiction ... That my Johanna would never betray me. Never hurt me so. 
 Sir ... I will leave this place. 
 I think that only appropriate. Since you no longer find my company to your liking, madam, we shall provide you with new lodgings. 
 Until this moment I have spared the rod ... And the ungrateful child has broken my heart. Now you will learn discipline... 
 71. 49   CONTINUED:                                                    49 
 When you have learned to appreciate what you have, perhaps we shall meet again. Until then ... Think on your sins. 
 
! 
 Where are you taking her?! Tell me or I swear by God--! 
 WOULD YOU KILL ME, BOY?! HERE I STAND! 
 72. 51   CONTINUED:                                                    51 
 Ladies and gentlemen, May I have your attention, perlease? Are your nostrils aquiver and tingling as well At that delicate, luscious ambrosial smell? Yes they are, I can tell... 
 73. 52   CONTINUED:                                                      52 
 Well, ladies and gentlemen, That aroma enriching the breeze Is like nothing compared to its succulent source, As the gourmets among you will tell you, of course. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, You can't imagine the rapture in store-- (Indicating the pie shop) Just inside of this door! There you'll sample Mrs. Lovett's meat pies, Savory and sweet pies, As you'll see. You who eat pies, Mrs. Lovett's meat pies Conjure up the treat pies Used to be! 
 MRS. LOVETT Toby! 
 Coming! (pushing past a customer) 'Scuse me... 
 MRS. LOVETT (indicating a beckoning customer) Ale there! 
 Right, mum! 
 MRS. LOVETT Quick, now! 
 74. 52   CONTINUED: (2)                                             52 
 God, that's good! 
 MRS. LOVETT Nice to see you, dearie... How have you been keeping?... Cor, me bones is weary! Toby--! (Indicating a Customer) One for the gentleman... Hear the birdies cheeping-- Helps to keep it cheery... 
 MRS. LOVETT Toby! Throw the old woman out! 
 God, that's good! 
 MRS. LOVETT (continuing to customers) What's your pleasure, dearie?... No, we don't cut slices... Cor, me eyes are bleary!... (As Toby is about to pour for a drunken customer) Toby! None for the gentleman!... I could up me prices-- I'm a little leery... Business Couldn't be better, though-- 
 God, that's good! 
 75. 52   CONTINUED: (3)                                               52 
 MRS. LOVETT Knock on wood. 
 MRS. LOVETT What's your pleasure, dearie? (Spilling ale) Oops! I beg your pardon! Just me hands is smeary-- (Spotting a freeloader trying to sneak out without paying) Toby! Run for the gentleman! 
 MRS. LOVETT Don't you love a garden? Always makes me teary... (Looking back at the freeloader) Must be one them foreigners-- 
 God, that's good that is delicious! 
 MRS. LOVETT What's my secret? (To a woman) Frankly, dear -- forgive my candor-- Family secret, All to do with herbs. Things like being Careful with your coriander, That's what makes the gravy grander--! 
 76. 54   CONTINUED:                                                   54 
 More hot pies! More hot! More pies! 
 MRS. LOVETT Incidentally, dearie, You know Mrs. Mooney. Sales've been so dreary-- (She spots the Beggar Woman again) Toby! (Continuing to the customer, about Mrs. Mooney) --Poor thing is penniless. (Indicating Beggar Woman to Toby) What about that loony? (To the customer as Toby shoos the Beggar Woman away again) Lookin' sort of beery-- Oh, well, got her comeuppance-- (Hawklike, to a rising customer) And that'll be thruppence -- and 
 God that's good that is de have you 
 MRS. LOVETT So she should. 
 Licious ever tasted smell such Oh my God what more that's pies good! 
 77. 56   CONTINUED:                                                   56 
 MRS. LOVETT Hold it-- 
 More hot pies! 
 MRS. LOVETT Bless my eyes--! 
 MRS. LOVETT Fresh supplies! 
 MRS. LOVETT How about it, dearie? (expecting more pies) Be here in a twinkling! Just confirms me theory-- Toby--! God watches over us. Didn't have an inkling... Positively eerie... 
 (simultaneous with above) Is that a pie Fit for a king, A wondrous sweet And most delectable Thing? You see, ma'am, why There is no meat pie-- 
 78. 56   CONTINUED: (2)                                               56 
 (simultaneous with above) Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! Yum! 
 MRS. LOVETT Toby! Throw the old woman out! 
 God, that's good that is de have you Licious ever tasted smell such Oh my God what perfect more that's Pies such flavor God, that's good!! 
 79. 58   CONTINUED:                                                  58 
 I feel you, Johanna, I feel you. Do they think that walls can hide you? Even now I'm at your window. I am in the dark beside you, Buried sweetly in your yellow hair, Johanna... 
 Johanna... 
 (V.O.) Johanna... 
 Johanna... 61   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DAY                                     61 
 And if you're beautiful, what then, With yellow hair, like wheat? I think we shall not meet again-- (He quietly slits the Gentleman's throat) My little dove, my sweet... 
 80. 
 (V.O.) Johanna... 
 I'll steal you, Johanna... 
 Goodbye, Johanna, You're gone, and yet you're mine. I'm fine, Johanna, I'm fine! 
 Johanna... 
 (in a demented rage) Smoke! Smoke! 
 81. 66   CONTINUED:                                                   66 
 And if I never hear your voice, My turtledove, my dear, I still have reason to rejoice: The way ahead is clear... 
 (V.O.) Johanna... 
 I feel you... Johanna... 69   INT. BARBER SHOP -- DUSK                                      69 
 And in that darkness when I'm blind With what I can't forget-- It's always morning in my mind, My little lamb, my pet... 
 (V.O.) Johanna... 
 82. 70   CONTINUED:                                                   70 
 Johanna... 
 You stay, Johanna... (He quietly cuts the customer's throat) The way I've dreamed you are. (Todd notices dusk outside the window) Oh look, Johanna-, (Pulls the lever and the customer disappears) A star! (Tossing the customer's hat down the chute) A shooting star! 
 Buried sweetly in your yellow hair... 
 (pointing to the smoke over rooftops) There! There! Somebody, somebody look up there! (the passers-by continue to ignore her) Didn't I tell you? Smell that air? City on fire! 
 83. 74   CONTINUED:                                                    74 
 (panicked) Quick, sir! Run and tell! Warn 'em all of the witch's spell! There it is, there it is, the unholy smell! Tell it to the Beadle and the police as well! Tell 'em! Tell 'em! 
 Help!!! Fiend!!! City on fire!!! 
 City on fire... Mischief ... Mischief ... Mischief... Fiend... 
 Alms! ... Alms! ... 
 And though I'll think of you, I guess, Until the day I die, I think I miss you less and less As every day goes by... 
 (V.O.) Johanna... 
 Johanna... 
 84. 
 And you'd be beautiful and pale, And look too much like her. If only angels could prevail, We'd be the way we were. Johanna... 
 I feel you... Johanna... 
 Wake up, Johanna! Another bright red day! (He slits the customer's throat) We learn, Johanna, To say... Goodbye... 
 I'll steal you... 
 85. 
 MRS. LOVETT ... which is not to say we couldn't get some nice taxidermy animals to bring a touch of gentility to the place. You know, a boar's head or two... (glancing at the unresponsive Todd) Mr. T., are you listening to me? 
 Of course. 
 MRS. LOVETT Then what did I just say? 
 (back in his somber reflections) There must be a way to the Judge! 
 MRS. LOVETT (snaps) The bloody old Judge! Always harping on the bloody old Judge! (she massages his neck) We got a nice respectable business now, money coming in regular and -- since we're careful to pick and choose -- only strangers and such like wot won't be missed -- who's going to catch on? 
 86. 82   CONTINUED:                                                     82 
 MRS. LOVETT Oooh, Mr. Todd-- (Kisses him again) I'm so happy-- (Again) I could-- (Again) Eat you up, I really could! You know what I'd like to Do, Mr. Todd? (Kisses him) What I dream-- (Again) If the business stays as good, Where I'd really like to go-- (No response) In a year or so... (No response) Don't you want to know? 
 (couldn't care less) Of course. 
 MRS. LOVETT Do you really want to know? 
 (forces a pained smile) Yes, yes, I do, I do. 
 MRS. LOVETT I've always had this dream of living at the seaside ... I got a picture postcard from me Aunt Nettie once. Oh, it seems like such a grand place... (notes Toby flying his kite) And all that fresh aquatic air's bound to be good for the lad's poxy lungs... 
 87. 82   CONTINUED: (2)                                              82 
 (grumbles) Anything you say. 
 MRS. LOVETT Wouldn't that be smashing? 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) With the sea at our gate, We'll have kippered herring Wot have swum to us straight From the Straits of Bering. Every night in the kip When we're through our kippers, I'll be there slippin' off your slippers By the sea... With the fishies splashing. By the sea... Wouldn't that be smashing? Down by the sea-- 
 (V.O.) Anything you say, Anything you say. 
 88. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) I can see us waking, The breakers breaking, The seagulls squawking: Hoo! Hoo! I do me baking, Then I go walking With yoo-hoo... (she waves to Toby) Yoo-hoo... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) I'll warm me bones On the esplanade Have tea and scones With me gay young blade... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Then I'll knit a sweater While you write a letter... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) (Coyly) Unless we got better To do-hoo... 
 (V.O.) Anything you say... 
 89. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Think how snug it'll be Underneath our flannel When it's just you and me And the English Channel... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) In our cozy retreat, Kept all neat and tidy, We'll have chums over every Friday... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) By the sea... 
 (V.O.) Anything you say... 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Don't you love the weather By the sea? We'll grow old together By the seaside, (Beckons to Todd to join them) Hoo! Hoo! By the beautiful sea! 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) It'll be so quiet That who'll come by it Except a seagull? Hoo! Hoo! We shouldn't try it, 
 90. 90   CONTINUED:                                                   90 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) But a seaside wedding Could be devised, Me rumpled bedding Legitimized. 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) My eyelids'll flutter, I'll turn into butter, The moment I mutter "I do-hoo!" 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) By the sea, in our nest, We could share our kippers With the odd paying guest From the weekend trippers, Have a nice sunny suite For the guest to rest in-- 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) Now and then, you could do the guest in-- 
 91. 93   CONTINUED:                                                    93 
 MRS. LOVETT (V.O.) By the sea. Married nice and proper, By the sea-- Bring along your chopper To the seaside, Hoo! Hoo! By the beautiful sea! 
 MRS. LOVETT Brought you some breakfast, dear, farm fresh eggs and a dollop of lovely clotted cream, only the best for my... She stops when he realizes he isn't even listening to her. Her heart sinks seeing him at the window, wearing his obsession like a cloak. 
 MRS. LOVETT Mr. T., might I ask you a question? 
 (not turning) Mm? 
 MRS. LOVETT What did your Lucy look like? 
 92. 95   CONTINUED:                                                    95 
 MRS. LOVETT You heard me ... (a beat) ... Can't really remember can you? 
 She had yellow hair. 
 MRS. LOVETT You've got to leave all this behind you now. She's gone ... You keep looking down into the grave, you're never gonna look up. And life will just pass right by ... Life is for the alive, my dear. 
 MRS. LOVETT We could have a life we two ... Maybe not like I dreamed, maybe not like you remember ... But we could get by. 
 MRS. LOVETT Come away from the window. 
 93. 95   CONTINUED: (2)                                              95 
 Mr. Todd ... Mrs. Lovett, ma'am ... (sinks into a chair) ... Seems I've not slept in a week -- but it's done-- 
 What is it, Anthony? 
 (bitter) He has her locked in a madhouse. 
 You've found Johanna? 
 For all the good it'll do -- it's impossible to get to her. 
 A madhouse ... A madhouse ... Where? 
 Fogg's Asylum. But I've circled the place a dozen times. There's no way in. It's a fortress. 
 (a whisper) I've got him. 
 Mr. Todd? 
 94. 95   CONTINUED: (3)                                             95 
 (to Anthony) We've got her ... Where do you suppose all the wigmakers of London go to obtain their human hair? Bedlam. They get their hair from the lunatics at Bedlam-- 
 I don't understand-- 
 We shall set you up as a wigmaker in search of hair -- that will gain you access -- then you will take her. 
 Yes... 
 You will not be deterred -- You will slaughter the world -- To bring her here. 
 Yes. 
 Go and outfit yourself properly -- you are to be a gentlemen wigmaker. When you return we shall dispatch a letter to this Mr. Fogg announcing your arrival. Go -- quickly now! 
 (clasping Todd's hand) Mr. Todd -- how can I ever--? 
 Go! 
 95. 95   CONTINUED: (4)                                               95 
 MRS. LOVETT Dear, I wonder if-- 
 Fetch the boy. 
 MRS. LOVETT Don't you think it's time you-- 
 Fetch the boy. 
 MRS. LOVETT Toby ... Mr. Todd requires you. 
 Yes'm. 
 Mr. T.? 
 (still writing) You know where the Old Bailey is? 
 96. 97    CONTINUED:                                                    97 
 Oh, yes, sir. Not that I ever-- 
 (interrupts, folding up letter) Take this there and seek out a Judge Turpin. Repeat that. Repeat that. 
 Go to the Old Bailey. Find Judge Turpin. 
 (handing him letter) Put this into his hands. Only to him. Do you understand? 
 Yes, sir, and while I'm out do you mind if I stop by the grocer and pick up the-- 
 DON'T CHATTER, BOY! You are not to stop! You are not to speak! You are to deliver this letter! DO YOU 
?! 
 97. 101   CONTINUED:                                                   101 
 MRS. LOVETT Where you been, lad? We had quite the luncheon rush! Me poor bones is ready to drop... (She looks at him, notes his dark expression.) What is it, Toby? 
 Mr. Todd sent me on an errand ... And on the way back I went by the workhouse. And I was thinkin' ... But for you I would be there now. Or someplace worse. 
 Seems like the Good Lord sent you for me. 
 MRS. LOVETT Oh, love, I feel quite the same way-- 
 Hear me out, mum ... You know there's nothing I wouldn't do for you. Say, if there was someone around -- someone bad -- only you didn't know it-- 
 MRS. LOVETT (concerned) What is this? What are you talking about? 
 Nothing's gonna harm you, Not while I'm around. Nothing gonna harm you, No, sir, Not while I'm around... 
 MRS. LOVETT What do you mean, "someone bad"? 
 Demons are prowling Everywhere Nowadays. I'll send 'em howling, 
 98. 101   CONTINUED: (2)                                             101 
 MRS. LOVETT Darling, hush now, there's no need for this... 
 No one's gonna hurt you, No one's gonna dare. Others can desert you-- Not to worry-- Whistle, I'll be there. Demons'll charm you With a smile For a while, But in time Nothing can harm you, Not while I'm around. 
 MRS. LOVETT What is this foolishness now? What are you talking about? 
 Little things wot I been thinking ... About Mr. Todd... 
 Being close and being clever Ain't like being true, I don't need to, I won't never Hide a thing from you, Like some. 
 MRS. LOVETT Now, Toby dear, haven't we had enough of this foolish chatter? ... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 99. 101   CONTINUED: (3)                                            101 MRS. LOVETT (cont'd) (reaching for her purse) ... Here, how about I give you a shiny new penny and you can fetch us some nice toffees--? 
 That's Signor Pirelli's purse! 
 MRS. LOVETT No, no, love -- this is just something Mr. T. give me for my birthday-- 
 See that proves it -- what I been thinkin'-- (He stands, urgently pulling her hand) We gotta go, ma'am, right now -- we gotta find the Beadle and get the law here-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Hush now, Toby, hush ... Here, you just sit next to me nice and quiet ... (calming) ... How could you think such a thing of Mr. Todd, who's been so good to us? 
 MRS. LOVETT Nothing's gonna harm you, Not while I'm around. Nothing's gonna harm you, darling, Not while I'm around. (He leans into her) Demons'll charm you With a smile For a while, But in time Nothing's gonna harm you, Not while I'm around. 
 100. 101   CONTINUED: (4)                                            101 
 MRS. LOVETT (softly) Funny we should be having this little chat right now ... 'Cause I was just thinkin', you know how you've always fancied coming into the bakehouse with me to help make the pies? 
 (dreamily) Yes, ma'am. 
 MRS. LOVETT (smiles) Well ... no time like the present. 
 My heart bleeds for you havin' to go up and down all these stairs! 
 MRS. LOVETT Well, that'll be your job now. 
 Yes, ma'am! 
 101. 103   CONTINUED:                                                  103 
 Coo, quite a stink, ain't there? 
 MRS. LOVETT Those grates go right down to the sewers and the whiffs come up, always a few rats gone home to Jesus down there. 
 So -- where do I start?! 
 MRS. LOVETT Now this would be the bake oven ... Ten dozen at a time. Always be sure the doors is closed properly, like this. 
 (trying to remember it all) Yes'm, always closed properly. 
 MRS. LOVETT And here's the grinder ... (demonstrates it) ... You pop in the meat, give it a good grind and it comes out here. 
 (practicing with the grinder) Good grind, comes out there. 
 MRS. LOVETT That's my boy. Smoothly, smoothly -- Now I've got to pop upstairs, back in two shakes, all right? 
 Yes'm. 
 102. 103    CONTINUED: (2)                                            103 
 Do you think I might have a pie while I wait? 
 MRS. LOVETT As many as you like, son ... As many as you like. 
 ... Oh yes, sir, I agree it would be to our mutual interest to come to some arrangement in regard to my poor children's hair. 
 I keep the blondes over here. It was yellow hair you was looking for, sir? 
 Yes. 
 (points) That one has hair the shade I need. 
 103. 105   CONTINUED:                                                   105 
 Come, child. Smile for the gentleman and you shall have a sweetie. 
 (prepares scissors) Now, where shall I cut? 
 Not a word, Mr. Fogg, or it will be your last ... Now, I leave you to the mercy of your "children." 
 MRS. LOVETT ... I got him locked in -- but if he escapes he'll go to the law! 
 Then he can't escape. 
 MRS. LOVETT Mr. T. -- I don't know -- maybe we could-- 
 The Judge will be here soon! I have no time, woman! Come on--! 
 104. 106   CONTINUED:                                                   106 
 MRS. LOVETT Excuse me, sir! -- You gave me a fright. 
 Not my intention, good madam, though I am here on official business. (elaborately prepares a pinch of snuff) You see, there's been complaints. About the stink from your chimney. They say at night, it's something most foul. Health regulations -- and the general public welfare, naturally -- being my duty, I'm afraid I'll have to take a look ... (inhales the snuff, Sneezes and daintily wipes his nose) ... at your bakehouse. 
 (smoothly) Of course ... But first why don't you come upstairs and let me attend to you? 
 Much as I do appreciate tonsorial adornment, I really ought see to my "official" obligations first. 
 An admirable sentiment -- But I must ask you, out of professional curiosity you understand, is that a cream or a tallow pomade? 
 (touches his hair) Oh, not a pomade at all! Me secret is a touch of ambergris. 
 But, sir, hair that delicate requires a genuine pomade! Come along, let me show you the difference. 
 (considering) Well ... you are the expert in these matters... 
 105. 106   CONTINUED: (2)                                            106 
 And we'll finish you off with a nice facial rub of bay rum. 
 Oooh, bay rum is bracing. 
 And all on the house, for my friend, Beadle Bamford. 
 Well, sir, I take that very kindly ... Lead on. 
 (bowing) I am, sir, entirely at your -- (his eyes flit to Mrs. Lovett) -- disposal. 
 106. 108   CONTINUED:                                                    108 
 MRS. LOVETT! MRS. LOVETT! LET ME OUT! 
 MRS. LOVETT! 
 The engine roared, the motor hissed, And who could see how the road would twist...? 
 In Sweeney's ledger the entries matched: A Beadle arrived, and a Beadle dispatched... 
 107. 109   CONTINUED:                                                       109 
 (O.S.) 
! 
 (variously) Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! 
 Sweeney! Sweeeeeeneeeeey...! 
 (V.O.) Sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeey... Sweeneysweeneysweeneysweeney... 
 MRS. LOVETT Toby! Where are you, love? 
 Toby! Where are you, lad? 
 108. 110   CONTINUED:                                                   110 
 MRS. LOVETT Nothing's gonna harm you... 
 Toby! 
 MRS. LOVETT Not while I'm around... 
 Toby! 
 MRS. LOVETT Nothing's gonna harm you, Darling... 
 Nothing to be afraid of boy... 
 MRS. LOVETT Not while I'm around. 
 Toby... 
 MRS. LOVETT Demons are prowling everywhere Nowadays... 
 Toby... 
 Mr. Todd...? No matter. You wait for him here -- I'll return with the coach in less than half an hour... 
 Don't worry, darling, in those clothes, no one will recognize you ... You're safe now. 
 109. 111   CONTINUED:                                                  111 
 (darkly ironic) Safe ... So we run away and then all our dreams come true? 
 I hope so... 
 I have never had dreams. Only nightmares. 
 Johanna ... When we're free of this place all the ghosts will go away. 
 No, Anthony, they never go away. 
 I'll be right back to you ... Half an hour and we'll be free. 
 Beadle ... Beadle ... No good hiding, I saw you! Are you in there still? 
 110. 113   CONTINUED:                                                  113 
 (V.O.) Beadle ... Beadle... 
 Beadle dear, Beadle... 
 Beadle deedle deedle deedle deedle dumpling, Beadle, dumpling, Be-deedle dumpling... 
 What are you doing here?! 
 (clutching at his arm) Ah, evil is here, sir. The stink of evil -- from below -- from her! ... (calling) ... Beadle dear, Beadle! 
 Be quiet, woman! 
 (still clutching at him) She's the Devil's wife! Oh, beware her, sir. She with no pity ... (slowing, looking at him more closely) ...in her heart... 
 Out of here! Now! 
 111. 113   CONTINUED: (2)                                             113 
 (really peering at him now) Hey, don't I know you, mister? 
 Where is she? Where's the girl? 
 Below, your Honor. With my neighbor. Thank heavens the sailor did not molest her. Thank heavens, too, she has seen the error of her ways. 
 She has? 
 Oh yes, sir, your lesson was well learned. She speaks only of you, longing for forgiveness. 
 Then she shall have it. She'll be here soon, you say? 
 I think I hear her now. 
 (excited) Oh, excellent, my friend! 
 Is that her dainty footstep on the stair? 
 I hear nothing. 
 112. 113   CONTINUED: (3)                                           113 
 Yes, isn't that her shadow on the wall? 
 Where? 
 There! Primping, Making herself even prettier than usual-- 
 Even prettier... 
 If possible. 
 (blissful) Ohhhhhhh, Pretty women! 
 Pretty women, yes... 
 (straightening his coat) Quickly, sir, a splash of bay rum! 
 Sit, sir, sit. 
 (settling into chair, in lecherous rapture) Johanna, Johanna... 
 Pretty women... 
 Hurry, man! 
 Pretty women Are a wonder... 
 113. 113   CONTINUED: (4)                                             113 
 You're in a merry mood again today, barber. 
 (joyfully) Pretty women! 
 What we do for 
 Pretty women! 
 Pretty women! 
 How seldom it is one meets a fellow spirit! 
 With fellow tastes -- in women, at least. 
 What? What's that? 
 The years no doubt have changed me, sir. (MORE) 
 114. 113   CONTINUED: (5)                                              113 TODD (cont'd) But then, I suppose the face of a barber -- the face of a prisoner in the dock -- is not particularly memorable. 
 (a horrified realization) Benjamin Barker! 
 
! 
 Rest now, my friend, Rest now forever, Sleep now the untroubled Sleep of the angels. 
 115. 113   CONTINUED: (6)                                              113 
 (darkly) Come for a shave, have you, lad? 
 No -- I... 
 Surely, yes! Everyone needs a good shave--! 
 Forget my face. He spins and bolts out of the shop, leaving her sitting in the chair-- 
 MRS. LOVETT Die! Die! God in heaven -- die! 
 116. 114   CONTINUED:                                                   114 
 MRS. LOVETT You! Can it be? Have all the demons of Hell come to torment me?! 
 Why did you scream? Does the Judge live still? 
 MRS. LOVETT He was clutching, holding on to my dress, but he's finished now... 
 Leave them to me. Open the doors. 
 MRS. LOVETT No! Don't touch her! 
 Open the doors! 
 What's the matter with you? It's only a silly old beggar-- Then -- Mrs. Lovett opens the oven doors-- 
 Oh no! ... Oh God ... "Don't I know you?" she said ... 
 117. 114   CONTINUED: (2)                                           114 
 You knew she lived. From the moment that I came into your shop you knew my Lucy lived! 
 MRS. LOVETT I was only thinking of you! 
 (looking down again) Lucy... 
 MRS. LOVETT Your Lucy! A crazy hag picking bones and rotten spuds out of alley ashcans! Would you have wanted to know she ended up like that? 
 (looking up) You lied to me... 
 MRS. LOVETT (desperately) No, no, not lied at all. No, I never lied. 
 (to Beggar Woman) Lucy... 
 MRS. LOVETT Said she took the poison -- she did -- Never said that she died -- Poor thing, She lived-- 
 I've come home again... 
 MRS. LOVETT But it left her weak in the head, All she did for months was just lie there in bed-- 
 Lucy... 
 MRS. LOVETT Should've been in hospital, Wound up in Bedlam instead, Poor thing! 
 118. 114   CONTINUED: (3)                                              114 
 Oh, my God... 
 MRS. LOVETT Better you should think she was dead. (passionately) Yes, I lied 'cos I love you! 
 Lucy... 
 MRS. LOVETT I'd be twice the wife she was! I love you! Could that thing have cared for you Like me? 
 (a harrowing keen) WHAT HAVE I DONE?! 
 Mrs. Lovett, You're a bloody wonder, Eminently practical and yet Appropriate as always, As you've said repeatedly, There's little point in dwelling on the past. 
 No, come here, my love... Not a thing to fear, My love... What's dead Is dead. 
 MRS. LOVETT Do you mean it? Everything I did I swear I thought Was only for the best, Believe me! (a heartbreaking plea) Can we still be Married? 
 119. 114   CONTINUED: (4)                                              114 
 The history of the world, my pet-- 
 MRS. LOVETT (through tears) Oh, Mr. Todd, Ooh, Mr. Todd, Leave it to me... 
 Is learn forgiveness and try to forget. 
 MRS. LOVETT (the lost dream) By the sea, Mr. Todd, We'll be comfy-cozy, By the sea, Mr. Todd, Where there's no one nosy... 
 And life is for the alive, my dear, So let's keep living it--! 
 120. 114   CONTINUED: (5)                                              114 
 There was a barber and his wife, And she was beautiful. A foolish barber and his wife, She was his reason and his life. And she was beautiful. And she was virtuous. And he was... 
 121. 114   CONTINUED: (6)                                              114 
 Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd, His skin was pale and his eye was odd. 
 He shaved the faces of gentlemen Who never thereafter were heard of again. 
 (variously) He trod a path that few have trod, Did Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 He kept a shop in London town, Of fancy clients and good renown. 
 And what if none of their souls were saved? They went to their maker impeccably shaved. 
 122. 114   CONTINUED: (7)                                             114 
 (variously) His needs are few, his room is bare. He hardly uses his fancy chair. The more he bleeds, the more he lives. He never forgets and he never forgives. Perhaps today you gave a nod To Sweeney Todd. The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. 
 (variously) Sweeney wishes the world away, Sweeney's weeping for yesterday, Hugging the blade, waiting the years, Hearing the music that nobody hears. Sweeney waits in the parlor hall, Sweeney leans on the office wall. No one can help, nothing can hide you-- Isn't that Sweeney there beside you? Sweeney wishes the world away, Sweeney's weeping for yesterday, Is Sweeney! There he is, it's Sweeney! Sweeney! Sweeney! 
 (variously) There! There! There! There! There! There! There! (almost a scream now) There! 
 123. 114   CONTINUED: (8)                                              114 
 Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd! He served a dark and a hungry god! 
 (sharply to Mrs. Lovett) To seek revenge may lead to hell. 
 MRS. LOVETT (coldly to him) But everyone does it, if seldom as well-- 
 As Sweeney Todd... The Demon Barber of Fleet... 
 ... Street! 
 124. 
