 JENNIFER'S BODY 
. 
 V.O. Every day, I get letters. I think I get more letters than Santa Claus, Zac Efron and Dr. Phil combined. I'm kind of the shit. 
 Rec time in five minutes, Needy. 
 Grassy-ass, Raymundo. 
 V.O. Sometimes the letters are from people who say they're praying for me. They tell me everything will be okay if I just accept Jesus Christ into my heart. I say the words, but nothing ever happens. Nobody comes back. Nobody gets off the cross. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Occasionally I get presents from starfuckers who saw my picture in the paper and want to marry me or something. They think they can take me away from all this. (MORE) 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Like I'd really date some perverted Chester with a hard-on for jailbait. I might be insane, but I'm not desperate. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) A lot of people ask me if I'm sorry I did it. 
 
 (ALOUD) I'm sorry I didn't do it sooner. 
. 
 V.O. Welcome to the Mental Olympics. They're big on recreation here. Supposedly it helps us vent our aggressions. We've traded in our hatchets for rackets, our Drain-O bombs for double dutch. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Even the cutters get in on the action when they're fully conscious. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Me? I'm just trying to stay invisible. 
 V.O. Personally, I think they're trying to wear us out. Keep us sluggish so there won't be an uprising. Well, those J.V. tactics won't work against me. I'm a kicker. K-I- C-K-E-R. It even says so on my chart. 
 Just one Toastem, huh? 
 (QUIETLY) I like Toastems. 
 That's good. But I'm not sure a Toastem can provide you with sufficient energy for your day. I'd recommend more complex carbohydrates... 
 I'D RECOMMEND THAT YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP! 
 V.O. I wasn't always this cracked. I used to be normal-- well, as normal as any girl under the influence of teenage hormones. But after the killings began, I started to feel, I don't know... loose around the edges or something. I was coming undone like those jeans I made in Home Ec. Falling to pieces like Patsy Cline. Shredded like moo-shu pork. Dead inside. Needy cringes as she briefly hallucinates abstract SHAPES in the darkness. Grinning skulls. Faces drained of life, half eaten. Grimaces of terror. Suddenly, soft music   is piped into "the hole," ostensibly to calm the patients   in solitary. Needy shudders and recoils at the sound   of it. It's a CHEESY ROCK BALLAD that we'll soon hear   again... (CONTINUED) 
 V.O. God, I hate this fucking song. 
 This is where it all went down. "Devil's Kettle" sounds twisted, I know, but the place just is named after a dumb waterfall. 
 V.O. Well technically, it's two waterfalls. One of them is normal-- it empties into a river basin. But the other one goes into a hole. And it doesn't come out. The scientist guys can't explain it. They've dropped all kinds of things down there--bouncy balls, red dye, radioactive slime-- but nothing ever surfaces. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Maybe it's another dimension. Or, you know, just really deep. 
 V.O. I've probably spent years of my life in this house. Hundreds of sleepovers, thousands of aimless homework sessions, a million phone calls. I've climbed through Jennifer's window so many times. But tonight, only one of us is going to come out. 
 V.O. Jennifer didn't always look this rough. Actually, she was the prettiest girl in Devil's Kettle when she wasn't so...hungry. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) She hadn't fed in weeks. 
 Huh? Needy PLUNGES through the window, screaming and brandishing a HAMMER. She takes a SWING at Jennifer's head, but misses and BURIES IT IN THE WALL, specifically in Jennifer's Fall Out Boy poster. Needy throws herself on top of Jennifer. She STRADDLES Jennifer and grips her throat, throttling her. 
 You'll throw me a bone, huh? Huh? You killed Chip! You goddamned monster! You...ZOMBITCH! 
 (GAGGING) Do you buy all your murder weapons at Home Depot? God, you're butch. 
 Know what this is for? Cutting boxes. She takes a swipe at Jennifer's CROTCH. Jennifer instinctively CLUTCHES herself and rears up in defense. We see Jennifer's mouth come down on Needy's neck. Needy shrieks as if BITTEN, but continues to strangle Jennifer, straddling her and bearing down. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) (HYSTERICAL) CROSS OUT JENNIFER! Jennifer gasps, staring at her wounds in shock and disbelief. She looks back up at Needy. A beat of silence. Suddenly, THE GIRLS' BODIES LEVITATE RAPIDLY TOWARD THE CEILING. They wrestle in a bloody, screaming airborne heap, their figures entwined. Their bodies FALL, collapsing back onto the bed with a thud. 
 (CHOKING) My tit! Suddenly, the room is flooded with BRIGHT LIGHT, revealing a Needy straddling Jennifer's MUTLIATED BODY. Jennifer's breathing is a raspy death rattle. MRS. CHECK, a middle-aged woman in bad sleepwear and a worse perm rushes into the bedroom. 
 MRS. CHECK Jennifer! What is it, baby? Oh my God! Oh my God! She pulls Needy off her daughter. Jennifer rolls over, gasping and bleeding. MRS. CHECK (CONT'D) (SHOCKED) Needy? Needy drops the boxcutter. It lands on Jennifer's copy of Flag Team Quarterly, splashing the model with fresh gore. 
 Is she dead, Mrs. Check? Did I get her? 
 Christ, Needy, what have you done? 
 Hi, Roman! How's the Force treating you? I like that jaunty cap. Blue like your balls. 
 How could you do this, Needy? (EMOTIONAL) You killed Jen-- Jennifer-- I mean, the victim. Are you on something? 
 Everything's going to be okay now. I rule. 
 Shut your mouth back there! 
 Hey. Didn't you used to baby-sit me in like 1998? When my mom worked the overnight at Hormel? The female cop fidgets uncomfortably. (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Yeah. Gracie, right? Gracie. I really like your hair, Gracie. How many cans of Salon Selectives did it take to erect that monument? The cop reaches into the backseat and SLAPS Needy, who hiccups with laughter. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Watch it, Puffy Combs. That's police brutality! 
 You're one to talk about brutality, Ms. Lesnicki. You're looking at attempted murder. 
 Ugh, don't say attempted. That sounds so JV. Small time. Teeny- weeny, just like Officer Duda up there. And trust me-- I'd know. Roman swallows nervously, eyes on the road. Officer Warzak glances at him. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Let's get our facts straight: I successfully committed a hard core, fully premeditated murder back there. I fucking destroyed that brat, OK? I, Needy Lesnicki, put a stop-payment on Jennifer Check. She slumps down in the backseat. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Why am I even in these cuffs? I just saved every guy in this town from becoming Satan Chow. I'm a hero. 
 She's delirious. 
 (MUTTERING) This is going to be a circus. 
 At least we've already got a confession. 
 Confessions are for pussies. You've got a declaration, Grace. She giggles maniacally. Roman turns on the radio, violating protocol. It's a soaring rock anthem-- the SAME SONG we heard being piped into solitary confinement. 
 God, I love this song. 
 I know. And they've done so much for this town. 
 They're way more than a band, really. They're heroes. 
 Wait, this is my favorite part... Roman and the female cop begin to sing along with the uplifting, corny song: 
 V.O. So I killed her. Whatever. It won't undo anything. Three pulses-- three lives-- all stopped cold by adolescent bloodlust. It's hard to believe that just two months ago, me, Jennifer and my boyfriend Chip were completely normal people. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) We were our yearbook pictures. Nothing more, nothing less. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Jesus, Chip.. 
 V.O. Chip couldn't drum for shit. He only knew "Land of a Thousand Dances" and the solo from "Wipeout." Lucky for him, the pep band gig wasn't too demanding. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) If you can believe it, that's Jennifer. Yeah, the same girl I iced with the box-cutter. Only back then, we were tight. Sisters, practically. People found it hard to believe that a babe like Jennifer would associate with a dork like me. But we'd been the Wonder Twins since we were practically preverbal. Sandbox love never dies. 
 You're totally lesbigay. 
 What? She's my best friend. The geeky girl mockingly imitates Needy's excited wave. 
 You stare at her like you want to dry hump her. Needy ignores her. 
 CHASTITY (CONT'D) Like, hump her through pants. 
 (INTERRUPTING) Are you jealous? 
 Of what? That rich bitch? 
 She's not rich. 
 Hey, Monistat. 
 What's up, Vagisil? 
 You and me are going out tonight. 
 Tonight? Why? 
 Soft Shoulder are playing at the Carousel. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) And it's all-ages, for once, which means I won't have to play Hello Titty with the door guy. 
 What's Soft Shoulder? 
 They're this indie band from the city. I saw their MySpace and the singer is extra salty. And there will be lots of other salty morsels there for you. Come on Needy, it's the weekend! 
 It's Thursday. 
 Thursday counts as the weekend in college. And we're going to be in college twenty-three months from now. University of Northern Minnesota Duluth- woo! Needy continues loading her backpack. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Please, please you're a social disease? 
 I have to study. Jennifer pouts. With an outstretched finger, she draws a dramatic X in the air over Needy and boos loudly. 
 (SHOUTING) Boo! Cross out Needy! 
 Fine. What time is the show? 
 I'll pick you up at 8:30. My mom has a date with that guy who owns the ham store. 
 He seems nice. 
 (SMIRKING) Yeah, Mom says he's got a huge... heart. So huge he gave her a recurring bladder infection. Wear something cool, okay? 
 Okay. 
 V.O. "Wear something cool" meant something very specific in Jennifer-speak. It meant I couldn't look like a nerd, but I couldn't upstage her either. I could expose my stomach, but never cleavage. Tits were her trademark. 
 Those jeans are hella low. I can almost see your front butt. 
 Chip, it's a rock show. This is my rock look. 
 I can see, like, your womb. Needy sighs and hoists up her pants. 
 CHIP (CONT'D) Why are you blowing me off for some dumb concert, anyway? We were supposed to have Movie Night. I even rented Orca. It's like Jaws, except with a harmless whale. 
 Jennifer needs me. She really wants to go see this band. It's extremely important to her. 
 I've never even heard of Soft Shoulder. Which one is Jennifer stalking? 
 The lead singer, of course. Girls like her don't go out with drummers. 
 Thanks a lot! 
 No offense. I mean, she'd probably make an exception for a drummer who was also the lead singer. 
 Like Phil Collins. 
 Who's Phil Collins? 
 Forget it. He's seminal, but whatever... 
 Anyway, this singer guy is like 22, so he could get locked up in the state pen if he actually dated her. But Jennifer says he's extra salty, so... 
 Salty. You guys ever going to stop using that secret language? 
 "Salty" means beautiful. 
 Then you must be soy sauce, babe. Needy and start MAKING OUT. unbuckles his belt eagerly even though they've barely begun. Needy stops. 
 Jennifer's here. 
 How do you know? Needy shrugs. A beat of silence. Then we hear the door swing open. JENNIFER'S VOICE floats up from downstairs. 
 (O.S.) Needy, quit tampooning yourself and get down here! 
 That's fucking weird. 
 (straightening her 
) I'd better hurry. 
 You always do what Jennifer tells you to do. Needy pulls her NECKLACE out from beneath her shirt and flashes a heart-shaped "B.F.F." charm at Chip. 
 She's my best friend, Chip. Remember? This necklace is no joke. CHIP sighs, resigned. They head downstairs. 
 (GLOATING) Guess who's got the whip `til 11:30? A 2003 Chrysler Sebring and it's all mine. 
 Wow. 
 You're lucky you get to ride with me to the club in style! She does a sexy little dance in the doorway, then notices 
. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Oh, hi Chip. Do you like puppies? She grabs her boobs and thrusts her chest outward at him, giggling. Needy watches jealously and MANEUVERS HER WAY IN FRONT OF JENNIFER. 
 I think you forgot, like, two buttons. 
 I think she remembered two buttons. 
 It smells like Thai food in here. 
 (BEAT) Have you guys been fucking? 
 You're gross! 
 Okay, let's go to the club. The three of them shuffle onto the porch. Needy locks the door. 
 The Carousel is not a club. 
 Eat my ass, Chip. You're just jello `cause you're not invited. 
 I'm not jello! That place is gross. Everyone there has a mustache. 
 You're totally jello! You're lime green jello and you can't even admit it. The girls scamper toward the car. 
 (calling after them) Stop kidnapping my girlfriend! 
 V.O. Chip was right. The Carousel is definitely not a club. Clubs are for attractive people in populous urban areas. Clubs have DJs and champagne and separate bathrooms for guys and girls. All we have is a broken jukebox, a few domestic taps and the Sticker Toilet. 
. BACK ON NEEDY: Needy and Jennifer enter the bar. Every guy in the joint stares at Jennifer, who snaps her "MINOR" wristband distastefully. 
 God, I can't wait until I'm old enough to get wasted. Have you ever had peach schnapps? 
 I don't think so. 
 Peach schnapps are excellent. They even taste good when they come out of your nose mid-puke. A teenage guy, CRAIG, passes by and waves. 
 Hi Jennifer. You look nice. 
 (without enthusiasm) What up, Craig. She elbows Needy and makes a GAGGING GESTURE. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) He thinks he's cute enough for me. No wonder he's in retard math. Jennifer pulls out a pack of Camel Wides and lights one awkwardly. Needy notices AHMET FROM INDIA, a FOREIGN EXCHANGE STUDENT, standing by himself away from the crowd. 
 Hey, it's Ahmet from India. The foreign exchange guy. He's all by himself. 
 I can't believe we traded a cute hockey player for that. 
 He seems okay. He's got that cool elephant statue in his locker. 
 Do you think he's circumcised? I always wanted to try sea cucumber. 
 Ew! ROMAN DUDA saunters up to Jennifer, swigging a bottle of beer. He snatches the pack of cigarettes away from her. 
 You're smoking dicks now, Jen? 
 What? I like the Wides. 
 I just bet you do. I should arrest you for possession under the legal age. 
 Arrest me, pfft! You're not even out of the academy yet, Roman! 
 Two more months and I'm on the force for real. Then I'll be able to cuff you whenever the hell I want. He grips her wrist and twists it behind her back. 
 How will I wait that long? She paws Roman's crotch discreetly. Needy winces. 
 Not here, babe. I gotta keep my nose clean. 
 (POINTING) Look, there's the band! 
 You can tell they're from the city. 
 Yeah, `cause they look like a bunch of faygos. 
 You would think that. You're such a small-time Gomer. I wish we had more guys like that in Devil's Kettle. All stylish and shit. Needy nods dumbly. She stares at the band, awestruck. (CONTINUED) 
 They look so-- so cool. She gazes at the stage, hearing only the whistling rush of ARCTIC AIR. In SLOW MOTION, the GUITARIST unsheathes his Fender Jaguar from its gig bag. He notices her staring and runs the tip of his tongue over his lips. Needy swallows hard. 
 Hey, I think they need two groupies. Come on! It'll be like Almost Famous! I'll be Penny Lane and you can be the other girl. She grabs Needy's hand and enthusiastically tries to drag her toward the stage. 
 No! 
 Don't be J.V., Needy. They're just boys. Morsels. We have all the power, don't you know that? She plants her hands on Needy's CHEST. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) These things are like smart bombs. Point `em in the right direction and shit gets real. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Hi. Um, we just really wanted to meet you or something? I'm Jennifer Check and this is my friend. 
 I'm Nikolai Wolf, and this is my band. He reaches down and pumps Jennifer's outstretched hand. 
 
 (AWKWARD) Yeah! Soft Shoulder, right? I've heard you guys are super, super good at playing your instruments. 
 I hope we can live up to such...high praise. 
 Hey, if you don't mind me asking, why did you want to play all the way out here in Devil's Kettle? You live in the city, right? 
 Yeah. But I think it's so important to connect with our fans in rural areas. Plus, the audiences in small towns really appreciate us. 
 Can I show you my appreciation right now? Needy looks at the floor, embarrassed. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Like, I'll buy you a drink? I mean, I'll see if I can get you a drink. They make this great 9/11 tribute shooter? It's red, white and blue, but you have to drink it fast or it gets all brownish. 
 (GRIMACING) Mmm. Jennifer hurries off toward the bar. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) Dirk, what about her? 
 (gesturing to Needy) Who, Training Bra Jones? 
 No, the hot one. The one who just walked away. She's it, man. She's exactly what we're looking for. 
 You're sure she's... 
 She's a kid. We're in God's country, man. Everyone out here's a fundie bible-banger. Of course she's a virgin. Dirk hesitates. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) Dirk, we didn't haul our asses out to this corn palace for nothing! 
 Fine. Okay. You know, I know I'm not "just the bassist." I'm a person who happens to play the bass guitar. And I would like some respect... 
 What? Are you scared of rock stars too? 
 Those guys are rank, Jen. Just forget about it. (CONTINUED) 
 I think the singer wants me. 
 Only because he thinks you're a virgin. I heard them talking. 
 Yeah, right! I'm not even a backdoor-virgin anymore, thanks to Roman. By the way, that hurts. I couldn't even go to flags the next day. I had to stay home and sit on a bag of frozen peas. 
 Oh my God. 
 Well, if Nikolai wants innocent, I can do innocent. I'll be Little Miss Fucking Sunshine. 
 He's way too old for you. 
 Don't cock-block me, Needy. 
 Good evening, Devil's Lake. Someone in the back shouts "Devil's Kettle!" 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) Sorry. Anyway, we're Soft Shoulder. And we just want to make you happy. He WINKS at Jennifer. The band launch into the same intense, soaring song we heard in the COP CAR and the HOLE. Jennifer's eyes never leave Nikolai's. She's hypnotized, clinging to Needy's arm. Even the locals look charmed. Suddenly, a lick of FLAME appears on the wood paneling next to the stage. Needy is the first to notice. As she watches in horror, the fire is reflected in her glasses. 
 (to Jennifer) I know where to go! Needy grabs Jennifer by the elbow and pulls her into the tiny BATHROOM. Choking on smoke, they climb onto the Sticker Toilet (which now sports a giant SOFT SHOULDER sticker on the tank) and boost each other out the BATHROOM WINDOW. Hundreds are still trapped inside, screaming. 
 (DAZED) It's so hot, Needy. I think I'm on fire. Oh God, I'm burning! 
 You're okay, I promise. You got burned worse when you wore that tin-foil bikini to the beach. Everything's fine. Suddenly, a HAND clamps onto Jennifer's shoulder. Both girls jump. It's Nikolai, his forehead creased with false concern. 
 Are you girls all right? 
 We're great. Maybe you should try to find your band? 
 Those guys? They were the first ones out the door. Ran for the van like a bunch of Marys. Frankly, I'm ashamed of them. Needy narrows her eyes suspiciously. Muffled SCREAMS rise up from the flame-engulfed building. Jennifer covers her ears and cowers, sweat rolling down her face. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) God, it feels like hell out here. Come and hang with us in the van for a while, just until they hose this place down. 
 Okay...okay... She slumps against Nikolai's chest. 
 You're in shock. Here, drink this. You'll feel better. He smoothly retrieves a plastic bottle of PEACH SCHNAPPS from his coat and holds it to Jennifer's lips. She swigs it cooperatively, dribbling down her chin. 
 Aren't you a little freaked out about this? What about all your stuff? It's probably melting, and when you get to the next stop you'll have to do like, a crappy acoustic set! Nobody likes that. 
 We'll be able to afford new gear soon enough. I have a feeling we're gonna blow up. 
 (SLURRING) I want to see your van. C'mon Needy, let's go to the van. 
 Why? Why should we? We have the Malibu. Let's just get out of here. We can go to El Ojo and get Northwoods Nachos with extra Badger Sauce! Please? I'm starving. 
 Needy, stop it. Just stop it! She defiantly follows Nikolai toward the WHITE VAN, which is parked a suspiciously safe distance from the bar. Needy staggers after them slowly, watching. Behind Needy, the bar EXPLODES. Screams. Flames. Silence. Needy doesn't even look back as she watches Jennifer get into the van. Ash drifts into her hair like snowflakes. 
 V.O. I watched her get into that van and I knew something awful was going to happen. But for some reason, I felt drawn toward them. Toward him. He was pale and twisted and evil, like this petrified tree I saw when I was a kid. 
: 
 (SLEEPILY) Hey, Niedermeyer. 
 Thank God you're there. I hoped you were sleeping with your phone. 
 What's wrong? 
 Jennifer's gone. She ran off with that rock band. And the Carousel burned down. CHIP sits bolt upright 
 Like, burned down? To the ground? Is everyone okay? 
 No. I think they're mostly dead. 
 Shit. You're okay, right? 
 We went out the bathroom window. Everyone else was trying to use the door. It was like a stampede. The people who fainted got run over and you could hear their bones breaking. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) There was all this screaming and popping, like a million Black Cats all going off at once. And the smell... 
 This is real, right? This isn't just, like, some crazy dream like last time? 
 No! Anyway, it took me like an hour to walk home. But Jennifer's still with those creeps! They had one of those white molester vans with no windows. The back was all blacked out. 
 Who cares about Jennifer and those douchebags with douchebag haircuts? People just burned to death. In our town! 
 (FRANTIC) Oh cheese and fries! Someone's here. I'm alone, Chip. I'm freaked out! 
 Where's your mom? 
 Swing shift. Listen, I'll call you in a minute. Stay awake. 
 (SLEEPILY) Holla back. Needy hangs up the phone and rushes downstairs. As she passes through the shadowy kitchen, appliances HUM all around her. The silence is menacing. 
 Um, Jennifer? Jennifer says nothing and continues to smile with blood- tinged teeth. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) What happened? Utter silence. Then a dripping sound. Needy looks down and sees large drops of blood spattering the linoleum. Jennifer continues to smile, staring directly at Needy. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) (TREMBLING) J-Jen? 
 (WHISPERING) Are you scared? Needy nods. Jennifer parts her lips. Then suddenly, she stops and PULLS AWAY, pushing Needy to the floor. Jennifer bolts out the front door and takes off running down the street. Needy is motionless for a moment, then stumbles toward the doorway. 
 (screaming after her) Jennifer! But she's long gone. 
 (WHISPERING) I heard Needy and Jennifer were there and they had to fight their way out with a machete. 
 Look, she's not even moving. 
 It's called Post Traumatic Stress Disorder... Suddenly, a figure steps in front of Needy. It's JENNIFER, looking absolutely gorgeous-- and remarkably unscathed. She smiles brightly at Needy as if nothing happened the night before. 
 Happy Friday!, D-bag! 
 You-- you're all right! 
 Yeah. Why wouldn't I be? 
 Last night. At my house. You were hurt. You had two black eyes and blood everywhere and... 
 Needy, you're delusional. I got a little banged up when you made me go out that window, but I'm fine. 
 (DUMBFOUNDED) We had to go out that window. The bar was like, engulfed in flames! 
 You do have a tendency to overreact. Remember at Girl Scout camp when you thought there was an earthquake and it was really just two guys with a ghetto blaster? 
 A lot of people died, Jennifer. They burned to death, or they choked, or they just got trampled. More than half of the people there didn't make it out. It's like, all over the news. National news. Kids are dead. Parents are dead. 
 Anyone we know? 
 We know everyone! 
 Sucks to be them, I guess. She giggles and reaches for her knockoff designer purse. 
 I don't get it. What's wrong with you? Jennifer applies lip gloss and smacks her lips together. 
 What's wrong with you? I mean, besides the obvious surface flaws. (CONTINUED) 
 (to herself) There's no way I dreamed it. No way. 
 V.O. Her blood was still under my nails. See, I'd been up all night scrubbing the carnage off the linoleum. 
 Work, you...twat! Swiff, darn it! Swiff! Swiff! 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) (softly, to herself) Shoot. 
 Don't talk to yourself. It's one of your more freakish Needy behaviors and it makes us both look like total gaylords. Needy raises her hands desperately to Jennifer, spreading her fingers to display her filthy fingernails. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Eww, you need a mani bad. You'd better find a Chinese chick to buff your situation! 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) (SMIRKING) Here comes Handi-Snack. 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI I'm sure those of you who made it here today have all heard the news. It's a dark day for Devil's Kettle, a day we can never, ever forget. A single, stifled sob rises from the class. Needy glances around the room and sees students fighting back tears. A huge JOCK weeps openly, tears spattering his swimsuit- model decorated notebook. Jennifer smirks, barely able to contain her laughter. MR. WROBLEWSKI (CONT'D) The administration here has decided that today will be a unstructured day of support and remembrance. We've lost nine precious students-- including Ahmet from India-- several parents, and a teacher, Ms. Parrish. He fights back tears. 
 No way! Parrish ate shit? 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI This tragedy is obviously beyond anything we can measure. More than ever, we need to band together and draw strength from each other. Mr. Wroblewski painstakingly retrieves a tissue from his pocket with his robotic hand and dabs at his face. MR. WROBLEWSKI (CONT'D) (his voice cracking) We can rise up. We can overcome death. 
 
 (DRY) Oh look, they're united in grief. That'll last. 
 No band practice today. 
 No anything today. 
 It's surreal, right? I mean, when just one guy dies in Devil's Kettle, it's like time stops. And now so many people are dead, nobody knows when it's okay to start again. 
 I feel guilty just breathing. 
 Word. 
 Chip, I need to tell you something kind of weird. It's about Jennifer. 
 What? 
 You know last night when we were talking and someone came to my door? That was Jennifer. But she didn't talk. She just stood there, smiling at me, but a bad kind of smile. She looked like she'd been beat up or shot or something. She was all bloody. (MORE) 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) And then she barfed up this disgusting prickly stuff that was like roadkill and sewing needles all mixed together. She shudders at the memory 
 Yuck. Like those porcupine meatballs my mom makes with the rice sticking out? 
 Yeah, like almost that bad! CHIP and Needy ponder the grotesque image in silence. 
 It was probably because she inhaled a whole bunch of smoke. 
 No. It was something evil. 
 You might want    to talk to the school shrink,    Needy. I'm not saying that to    be a dillhole. I'm actually kinda    concerned. 
 Chip, I'm a National Merit Scholar. I don't tell whoppers and I'm not crazy. 
 I didn't say you were crazy. It's just that everyone's a little messed up about this. It's okay to feel... 
 Discombobulated? 
 Yeah, you know. Fucked up. As they prepare to leave, COLIN GRAY approaches Needy. He's a cute PUNK/GOTH guy wearing black nail polish, a lip ring, and full wardrobe by Hot Topic. 
 Hi Needy. 
 Oh. Hi, Colin. 
 (DRAMATIC) I heard you were there last night. In the fiery trenches. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Well, I'm glad you made it out. Really. 
 Thanks. 
 How are you friends with Colin Gray? I thought Colin Gray only talked to the Dead Girls. We see a group of GOTH GIRLS splayed against their lockers in full regalia. One wears an ACCORDION for no reason. 
 I just am. We have Composition together. He's a really good writer. You know-- he's so dark and emotional and all. 
 Oh. I can relate. I'm also like that, even if I'm not all obvious about it like a poseur. 
 Walk me home? 
 You know it. 
 Hi! 
 (ALARMED) Oh. Hey, Jennifer. 
 I'm crazy-sorry about your profound loss. You are crying about Craig, right? 
 He was my best friend. Jennifer puts her arm around him sympathetically. 
 I know. I was close to him too. You know, I was there last night in that horrible place. I saw Craig a few minutes before the fire broke out. 
 You-- you did? 
 Yeah. I was probably the last person to talk to him. Like, ever. Literally. 
 Wow. What did he say? 
 Well, we got to talking about you, actually. And do you know what he said? He said you were like a brother to him. Not a bro. An actual brother. 
 (choking up) I just can't believe he's gone. 
 I know, I know. 
 (BEAT) Hey, you know what else Craig said? 
 What? 
 Forget it. It's too intense. 
 What? Please, Jen, you've gotta tell me! 
 Well, he said he always thought you and me would make a totally bangin' couple. Isn't that so weird? 
 He said bangin'? Jennifer reaches for Jonas's hand and slides it slowly up her shirt, placing it on her left breast. 
 (WHISPERING) Feel my heart, Jonas. I think it's broken. 
 (choking up) Mine too. 
 Come with me. Just for a while. We'll help each other get through this nightmare. It's what Craig would have wanted. Jonas nods dumbly, brainwashed. Jennifer leads him away from the field, toward the WOODS bordering the school campus. They vanish into the woods. In the distance, we see the FALLS rushing into the lake. 
 The whole night must be a total blur, right? 
 That's the thing, it's not a blur at all! I remember everything, in like ultra-high-def detail. The band, the fire, everything. Especially what happened after. 
 "After" is the part I don't really get, to be honest. 
 Please, I need someone to believe me. Jennifer was-- she was destroyed. She was dying in my hallway, Chip. I saw. I used my CPR training to check her pulse. And I felt her dying, on the inside, I mean. I've known her so long that it's like sometimes I can feel what she feels. We're like E.T. and Elliot Ness. 
 I believe you. Chip takes Needy's hand and squeezes it. 
 Thanks, Chipper. 
 You feel so warm. Why are you so warm? 
 (firmly covering his 
) Shutties! She pulls off Jonas' shirt and digs her nails into his arms, kissing him with renewed ferocity. 
 (MUFFLED) Jennifer! Jen... 
 What? 
 Look! He gestures to the ANIMALS, who are watching, still as statues. A few crows alight on a nearby tree. 
 Mm-hmm. They're waiting. 
 Uh, okay... Jennifer unzips Jonas's jeans and smiles, reaching down and working him with her hand. Jonas moans, still eyeing the animals. 
 Do you miss Craig? (CONTINUED) 
 (STARTLED) Of course. 
 Don't worry. You're going to see your buddy again. 
 You mean like in heaven someday? 
 No. She smiles and shakes her head. Jonas jerks back, creeped out. He tries to pull away from Jennifer, but she's too strong. She PINS him to the tree. We see her jaw begin to UNHINGE, like some horrible snake. Her eyes cloud over with blood... 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI (to himself) God, they're feeling so much pain. Another scream, this time weaker. 
 Fried bologna is the bomb! (to ferret) You want some, Greedo? She tuns on the kitchen radio and is surprised to hear a very familiar song: "Through the Trees," by Soft Shoulder. Suddenly, she pauses, a look of UNEASE and even FEAR crossing her face. She stops and braces herself against the counter, her KNEES SHAKING. Something isn't right. She drops the sandwich. Greedo goes straight for it. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Something's wrong... As Needy sinks to her knees, she stares straight ahead at the REFRIGERATOR. A photo magnet of JENNIFER leers back at her. 
 That was Soft Shoulder, the local band who became the unlikely heroes of the tragedy in Devil's Kettle last night. Eyewitnesses say the boys helped numerous people escape the inferno, risking their own lives in the process. That's rock n' roll with a conscience, ladies and gentlemen. Had a lot of requests for that one... 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI Virgin Mother! 
 Crap! Needy's mom, ANTONIA "TONI" LESNICKI, has quietly entered the kitchen in her pajamas. She's pale and sweaty, as if she's been spooked. 
 You said it. 
 Oh, hi, Mom. I didn't know you were awake. 
 I just had one of my night terrors. 
 It's four o' clock, so technically you had a day terror. 
 Right, right. I'm all mixed up since I started working swing again. 
 What did you dream about? 
 I dreamed some bad people were trying to nail me to a tree with hammers and big stakes and shit. Just like Jesus. She crosses herself piously. (CONTINUED) 
 TONI (CONT'D) They were trying to get to you too, but I wouldn't let `em. I'm a hard-assed, Ford-tough mama bear. 
 (SMILING) Yes you are. 
 It's like, don't y'all touch my daughter. I'll piss on you like Calvin. 
 You know, I can take care of myself, Mom. 
 That's what you think. One of these days you're gonna be crying out for me and I might not be there. 
 Hey Mom? Did you get a chance to catch the news after you clocked out this morning? 
 No. I just did my scratch tickets, snorted a few Lunesta and went straight to bed. Is something going on? 
 Nothing. Forget it. 
 Don't nothing happen in Devil's Kettle. 
 TONI (CONT'D) Anita, that ferret stinks. He needs to be washed from craw to cornhole. 
 Yes ma'am. Toni shakes her head and heads upstairs. 
 We will get the man that did this to your son. You hear me? We'll get that sick M.F. 
 JONAS'S DAD I'll get him myself! I will! You hear me, you bastard? I'll cut off your nutsack and nail it to my door! Like one of those lion doorknockers rich folks got! That'll be your balls! 
 Needy speaking. CROSS CUT 
: 
 I feel sooo scrumptious! She picks up a Soft Shoulder button and POKES her arm hard with the pin without flinching. Blood spurts from the wound. 
 Good for you. 
 You know, like when you kiss a hot guy for the first time and your whole body feels like it's on vibrate. 
 Yeah. 
 It's that good. Jennifer gazes at her arm, transfixed. She wipes the blood away-- the wound has magically DISAPPEARED. 
 Lucky you. See, I'm still kind of depressed about, you know, the giant smoldering funeral pyre in the middle of town? 
 Move-on dot org, Needy! It's over. Life's too short to mope over some white-trash pig roast. She flicks a Zippo lighter and touches the FLAME to her tongue-- first tentatively, then confidently. 
 That's really nice. 
 I tell it like it is. Besides, you should be happy for me. I'm having the best day since, like Jesus invented the calendar. 
 Jesus didn't invent the calendar. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) That's my other line. 
 So blow it off. 
 It'll just be a second. 
 Pooh. I'm crossing you out. She draws a mini-X in the air. Needy clicks over. It's CHIP. We get a nice trifold pie- chart illustrating the intersecting calls. CHIP is panicked and sweaty in his living room. In the background, Chip's little sister CAMILLE bangs on a piano. Red police lights flash outside the picture window. 
 I need to see you right now. 
 I can barely hear you. 
 Camille is playing piano. Knock it off, Camille! 
 You knock it off! 
 Can you meet me at McCullum in ten? 
 You knock it off, Chip! You're penis cheese! 
 Fifteen. Back on JENNIFER: Jennifer is impatiently dragging a razor down her arm. Blood drips onto the rug. She smiles, in awe of herself. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) I have to go. 
 What could possibly be more important than me and my godlike powers? 
 I have to meet Chip at McCullum Park. 
 Chip is looking cute to me lately. So tell me, is he packing some serious pubic inches? What's the story down there? 
 (QUICKLY) I gotta go. 
 Why are the cops at your house? 
 They're not. They're at Jonas Kozelle's house. He got murdered. 
 What?! Like, he was shot by gangbangers? 
 (EXASPERATED) No, Needy! Do you see anyone rollin' on dubs around here? 
 (BEAT) Someone ripped Jonas limb from limb in the woods behind the school. Ate parts of him. They found teethmarks on him-- on the body. His voice cracks. We see a brief, terrifying FLASH of Jonas's mutilated body and pain-stricken face. Needy doesn't want to believe it. 
 Some animals must've got to him. 
 Human teethmarks. 
 Who would do that? 
 I don't know. It just happened after school. No one's supposed to know yet, but my dad went over there and talked to the cops. Jonas's mom is catatonic. She's just staring out the front window like a zombie mannequin robot statue. 
 This can't be a coincidence. 
 What do you mean, Needy? 
 A fiery death trap last night, and now a cannibal eats our starting tight-end? Come on! 
 Don't get spooky on me, babe. 
 Seriously Chip. Most small towns only have something gruesome happen like, once every decade maybe. Devil's Kettle gets two nightmares in 24 hours? It's freaktarded. It's not right. 
 What, do you think it's, like supernatural? 
 I don't know. I'm extremely intelligent but I obviously don't know everything. 
 Well, the bad luck's gotta be over now, right? It can't get any worse, right? Obviously it can't. It can't. I mean, you agree, right? There won't be another victim. 
 You're shaking. 
 I'm cold. It's very cold out here. (CONTINUED) 
 Want my sweater? 
 It's pink. 
 Pink is cool. Rap guys wear pink. She's shaking now, too. Chip leans forward and kisses her. She closes her eyes. In the chaste space between CHIP and Needy's bodies, the volleyball-pit couple fuck like rabbits. DISSOLVE TO: 
 V.O. We were famous. We were saints. Our town's only bar had burned to the ground and our star quarterback was somebody's Quarter Pounder. The whole country got a huge tragedy boner for Devil's Kettle. And the press-- God, they couldn't get enough of our little world of shit. We see Devil's Kettle citizens holding a tearful candlelight vigil by the former Carousel site. They softly sing along with the Soft Shoulder song. 
 (SINGING) Through the trees, I will find you... 
 V.O. The days marched on as usual, but most of us were too numb to enjoy ourselves. Most of us. We see Jennifer cheerfully skipping down the school hallway in a sleazy Technicolor outfit. The rest of the kids look grey, ashen and depressed, but Jennifer pops like a Roman candle. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Still, we were healing. Like CHIP, we figured things could only get better. We had faith. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) We were fucking idiots. 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI Before the period ends, I have an announcement. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 Bo-ring! 
 (WHISPERING) Are you okay? 
 No. I feel like boo-boo. My skin is breaking out. My hair is dull and lifeless. God, it's like I'm one of the normal girls! Needy smooths her own hair self-consciously. 
 Are you PMS-ing or something? 
 PMS isn't real, Needy. It was invented by the boy-run media to make us seem crazy. 
 Oh. Mr. Wroblewski clears his throat, annoyed by their talking. 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI ...As I was saying, Needy and Jennifer, I finally have some good news to share with all of you. The members of the rock group Soft Shoulder have decided to extend a helping hand to our community. A ripple of excitement in the room. A girl seated in the front row is wearing a Soft Shoulder T-SHIRT. MR. WROBLEWSKI (CONT'D) As you know, their song "Through the Trees" has become our unofficial anthem of unity and healing. So, they've decided to release it as a benefit single. (MORE) 
 What about the other 97%? 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI Excuse me? 
 The other 97%. I mean, that's just crass. Right? She looks around for support, finding none. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Crass. It means scummy. Greedy. Am I the only one who actually does the vocab drills? 
 Soft Shoulder are American heroes. 
 No, they're not. I was there, Chastity. They didn't actually help anyone escape the fire. I don't even know how that rumor got started. 
 Rumor?! RUMOR? It's true! It's on their Wikipedia page! 
 Oh, that's crap... 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI 
-- 
 They've milked our pain-- our loss- - to get a stupid record deal! No one would even know who they were if they hadn't been playing here that night. They used us. 
 (growling, almost POSSESSED) You take that back, Needy Lesnicki! We need them now more then ever! 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI That's enough. The BELL rings. Students get up and gather their books for the next period. 
 I'm already sick of that song. 
 Yeah. It's poorly produced. Could the bass be any lower in the mix? 
 No offense, but you look kind of drained. Is everything all right? 
 I'm fine. It's just, like, wearing off or something. 
 What's wearing off? (ALARMED) Are you on pot? 
 No, dick ridge! Just forget I said anything. COLIN GRAY, the punk/goth boy we met earlier, approaches Jennifer nervously as she exits the classroom. Needy drops behind them, eavesdropping. 
 (to Needy) Hi. (to Jennifer, more NERVOUSLY) Hi, Jennifer. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, hey Colin. Listen, can I copy your bio lab again? I never got around to dissecting that kitten fetus. 
 Sure. Actually, I sort of wanted to ask you something. 
 Oh. You want to know if I'll go out with you. 
 No! Well-- yeah. 
 (BEAT) How did you know? 
 Just go ahead with the pitch. Colin fidgets awkwardly. 
 Well, we've been having a lot of fun in class, you and I, and I just thought maybe we could go to a movie or something. There's a midnight showing of Rocky Horror at the Bijou next weekend... 
 I don't like boxing movies. 
 It's not...fuck it. Never mind. He turns to walk down the hallway, dejected. Jennifer watches him leave. 
 Wait! Colin turns around. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Why don't you just come by my place tonight? I just got Aquamarine on DVD. It's about this girl who's like, half-sushi. I guess she has sex through her blowhole or something. 
 Oh. Great! Okay. 
 I'll text you my address. Colin walks away, grinning triumphantly. 
 That was random. 
 I'm used to guys asking me out. 
 Colin's a really nice guy. 
 He's into maggot-rock. He wears nail polish. 
 Hi. 
 (FLIRTATIOUS) Hi Chip. Needy puts her arm around Chip protectively. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) I gotta go parlez French. Slam you later. 
 (to Needy) Talking to your good pal Colin Gray again? 
 No. He was just asking Jennifer out on a date. Chip looks relieved. 
 Can I come over tonight? 
 Sure. I'd like that. 
 I went to Super Target and bought more condoms. 
 Thanks. 
 Not that that has anything to do with my coming over. 
 I didn't assume that. 
 Well, I'll see you tonight. Needy waves as Chip walks away. 
 For ambiance. It's Jammin' Jasmine. 
 Mmm. 
 My mom has Holiday Scents too, if you're interested. 
 No, this is nice. 
 Yo? He stumbles over a stray 2 x 4. There are piles of sawdust and building materials everywhere-- the house is definitely still under construction. Colin looks confused. A MOUSE skitters over his sneakers. 
 COLIN (CONT'D) Jennifer? Anyone there? The music upstairs grows slightly louder in response. 
 
 (READING) "Sensual Swirl?" 
 It's supposed to make it feel good for the girl. 
 Oh. Cool. 
 You made it. 
 What's going on? This isn't really your house, is it? 
 No baby. This is our house, just for you and me. We can play Mommy and Daddy. Colin is totally dumbstruck. 
 Do you even know my last name? 
 Silly. I've been sending you signals all year. Couldn't you tell? You give me such a wettie. 
 Oh. It's got little bumps on it. I can hardly wait. 
 Jennifer... 
 You scared? I thought boys like you were into vermin. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Nice hardware, Ace. 
 (FAINTLY) No way... 
 Oh, don't you dare pass out! I need you to be conscious. 
 I gotta go... 
 I need you frightened. Colin tries to jerk away, but Jennifer easily disengages his arm from its socket. A sickeningly moist SNAP. Colin cries out in pain. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) I need you hopeless. She slams him to the ground and mounts him. Her jaw unhinges, opening her mouth to a horrifying, inhuman degree. Her teeth are razor-sharp and grotesquely crowded, like they belong to some horribly deformed dog. She descends on him, feeding ravenously. 
 (SOFTLY) Hopeless..hopeless... CHIP opens his eyes. 
 What? Am I hurting you? Needy starts weeping. 
 CHIP (CONT'D) Am I too big? Tears roll down Needy's cheeks. She begins moaning, then SCREAMING at that top of her lungs. 
 CHIP (CONT'D) Needy! What's wrong? Needy continues to shriek hysterically, her voice growing ragged. 
 Is it something I did? 
 (GAGGING) It's her. 
 Do you need more foreplay? 
 Needy! 
 I have to go. I'm sorry. I just... feel like something...something terrible... 
 You feel-- What does that even mean? I'm worried about you. 
 I'm so sorry, Chip. I'm so sorry. Everything is just wrong. She bolts out the room, leaving Chip naked and alone. He pulls his knees up to his chest, vulnerable. 
 Fudge! Fudge! Maple fudge! 
 That was, of course, Soft Shoulder. They're going to be playing a benefit concert in Devil's Kettle next month. Talk about giving back to the community! Generous guys, I tell ya... 
 Mommy! Mommy? Please be home! 
 V.O. I've always been able to feel what she feels. Just not like this. 
 I'll be Perfect Prom Barbie and you be her. 
 Why do I have to be Ugly Ashley? 
 You can be Ugly Ashley or Ken. Choose. 
 What's wrong, Jennifer? 
 
! (trying to swear like a grown-up) Damn! Ass! 
 Better. We should get a Band-Aid though. 
 We're sisters now, you know. 
 I never tell on you. 
 JENNIFER'S VOICE What's up, Monistat? 
 God, enough screaming already. You're such a cliche. 
 Get out! 
 But we always share your bed when we have slumber parties. She winks conspiratorially at Needy. 
 What the fuck is happening? 
 Whoa. I have never heard you drop the F-bomb before. What's buggin'? 
 I saw you! I saw you! The car...the...I... 
 (MIMICKING) Buh-buh-buh. Slow down, tardy slip. You sound like a sped. 
 I'm calling the police. 
 Go ahead, narc me out. I've got the cops in my back pocket. I'm fucking a cadet, remember? 
 What do you want? 
 I want to explain some things to you. You've already seen too much and besides-- best friends don't keep secrets. Right? Needy nods, terrified. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Remember the night of the fire? 
 Yeah, it rings a bell. 
 Well, I got pretty messed up. I almost died. You know those guys in Soft Shoulder? Totally evil. They're basically agents of Satan with awesome haircuts. I figured that out as soon as I got into their molester van. 
 Guys? Where are we going? 
 Shut your mouth, object. 
 (NERVOUSLY) Nikolai... 
 Are you guys rapists?! 
 You wish. 
 (to band members) Hey guys? Do we even know if she's a virgin? 
 Yes...yes! Of course I'm a virgin! I've never done sex ever. I don't even know how. So maybe you should find some other girl who does. Know how. 
 Told you, Dirk. You owe me a beer. 
 (PREOCCUPIED) Sure, man. 
 What did they do to you? 
 Just let me finish. So they drove all the way out to the falls. I tried to figure out an escape, but it was so dark out there... 
 We got a waxing moon. Perfection. 
 You're the man, Wolf. 
 I don't know if we should go through with this. 
 (ANGRILY) Do you want to be rich and famous like the guy from Maroon 5? Or do you want to be a huge suicidal loser? 
 (SADLY) Maroon 5. 
 Then grow a pair and fetch me the ritual! God. 
 That's it? 
 What? I found it on Google. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) We come here tonight to sacrifice the body of... 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) ...this chick from Devil's Kettle. 
 (WHISPERING) My name is Jennifer. 
 That's fascinating. 
 Please let me go. I'll do anything. Anything you want. 
 I only hump nines and tens. You're a seven at best, even with the chicken cutlets. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) I'm gonna carve you like a pumpkin, bitch. Don't you know that me and my boys are in league with the Beast himself? 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) We've spent months making offerings to the "man downstairs," and whaddya know? Satan delivered! We went from college radio to being courted by the majors in two months. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) But that's not enough, Jenny. We want designer drugs. We want groupies that have their own groupies. We want speedballs and stadium tours and Skittles sorted by color. In short, we want more. And to get more, we have to butcher you. And bleed you. 
 
 (DESPERATE) Maybe you could just hire a publicist. Make some T-shirts or something. Hey, I could be on your street team! 
 Sorry, darling. 
 Please... 
 (LOUDLY) Start chanting, boys. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) With deepest malice, we deliver this virgin unto thee. 
 Dude, that is a hot murder weapon! 
 It's a bowie knife. 
 Bowie. Nice. 
 "There's a starman waiting in the sky..." 
 "He'd really like to meet us, but he thinks he'd blow our minds..." (CONTINUED) 
 Being tortured would make most girls black out or something. But I'm so hard core, I was with them the whole time. I could feel them gutting me Under my ribs, up into my belly, then right through my heart. 
 They...killed you. 
 I'm here, aren't I? She shakes her head, annoyed with Needy. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) I mean, yeah. They went Benihana on my ass. It should have killed me. But for some reason, it didn't. 
 
 (SOTTO) Maybe it did. 
 Whatever. Anyway, I don't really remember what happened after that. I just-- woke up a few hours later and found my way back, somehow. 
 I remember. 
 I couldn't bring myself to hurt you. I mean, I'm a really good friend. But I felt so hungry. I had to do something. 
 Ahmet. You made it out. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Are you lost? 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Does your host family know you're alive? 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Does anyone know you're alive? (CONTINUED) 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Come with me. We'll sort this out. 
 Ever since then, I just somehow knew what I needed to do to be strong. And when I'm full--like I am right now--I'm like, immortal! I can do stuff like this. Jennifer jams the CUTICLE STICK into her own forearm and drags it through her flesh. Needy screams and covers her mouth. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) No biggie. Watch. She pulls out the stick. The wound seals over instantly. Needy gasps and touches Jennifer's unmarked arm. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) That's some X-Men shit, right? 
 What do you mean, "when you're full"? 
 You know. Full. Like full of tasty morsels. Needy shakes her head, not comprehending. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Forget it. You'd probably tell on me anyway. Not that anyone would believe you. You always think the world is coming to an end. 
 What about my mom's Kia? Why did you attack me out there? Why were you covered in blood? You didn't even look human. Jennifer rolls her eyes. (CONTINUED) 
 You should talk to someone about these disturbing thoughts you're having. We're all concerned. Especially Chip. I think he's having second thoughts about you. 
 
 (FORCEFUL) Leave! 
 My, aren't we a C-U-Next-Tuesday? 
 GET OUT! 
 Come on. Let me stay the night. We can play "boyfriend/girlfriend" like we used to. She smiles seductively. 
 What are you doing? 
 You said to leave. So I'm outtie- 5000. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) See you at school. She LEAPS gracefully out the window. Needy watches in stunned silence for a few moments. Then she creeps over to the window and looks out. Nothing there but the wind. Jennifer's gone. 
 We gather here today to celebrate the life of Colin Gray, who was plucked from the prime of... The priest and family are momentarily distracted by the motley crew of Goths descending on the funeral. The priest clears his throat disapprovingly. 
 PRIEST (CONT'D) What is this disturbance? 
 MR. GRAY These are Colin's friends. A GOTH BOY runs up to the grave and drops to his belly. 
 Colin! Take me with you! I belong down there! In the DAAAARKNESS! 
 No, Kevin. Those are just his fleshly remains. He's among the dark angels of the realm now. Fly, Colin. Fly into the firmament. She lights a bundle of SAGE and waves it in the air. Colin's father gags, appalled. 
 Is it cool if we camp here for a few days? We want to commune with his corpse. He was our spooky homeboy. 
 Children, this is a private service for family only. 
 (to Colin's mother) Oh, right. I need to ask you something, Mrs. Gray. It's really important for me to have closure. 
 Young lady, have some respect for this family... 
 MRS. GRAY (waving him off) No. It's fine. 
 Is it true that Colin had a date with Jennifer Check the night he was killed? 
 MR. GRAY Did he...? 
 Have a date with Jennifer Check. Colin's parents stare at the ground. 
 Um, Chloe? Maybe you should be mad at the person who murdered Colin. All Jennifer Check did was invite him over to watch Aquamarine. 
 That's WORSE! She throws herself to the ground, crying and pounding the dirt like a toddler. Colin Gray's mother buries her head in her hands and begins weeping. Mr. Gray attempts to comfort her. 
 Colin wouldn't have liked this. 
 MRS. GRAY (losing it) Oh, you think so, Powder? Yeah, you're right! I'm pretty sure my son wouldn't have liked being eaten by a fucking CANNIBAL and buried before his eighteenth birthday! Wow, you must have known him so well! 
 MR. GRAY Jill... The goth boy looks terrified. But Mrs. Gray's not done ranting yet. 
 MRS. GRAY By the time they found Colin in that godforsaken house, he looked like lasagna with teeth. I'd know-- I had to identify the remains. My boy's not in the realm of the undead. He's not flying around in the firmament with magical wings of flame. He's in an overpriced rosewood box that's headed six feet downtown. She kicks the coffin to illustrate. 
 V.O. They did a big memorial assembly for Colin at school, and we had to watch another presentation about curfews and the buddy system and how to deal with grief. But nobody seemed to care anymore. Sorrow was last week's emotion. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Jennifer and I hadn't spoken since our encounter in my room. Actually, I hadn't really spoken to anyone. I was busy with research. Paranormal research. Needy gazes off into the distance with bloodshot eyes. As she stares at Jennifer, she see has a series of brief, gruesome HALLUCINATIONS: Jennifer as a grinning death mask. Jennifer as a corpse, the lower half of her face rotted away. Jennifer as a harlequin monster. Needy hears the rush of her own blood, the barely audible buzzing of flies... Chip jogs up next to her, jolting her out of her reverie. 
 Hey. Did you buy Turnabout tickets yet? I don't get paid until next week. 
 I gotta show you something. 
 What is it? 
 Not here. Behind the school. 
 What is it? 
 Evidence. 
 (WEARILY) Is this about Jennifer? 
 Yes, but I promise you this is the last thing I need to show y-- 
 (INTERRUPTING) Needy, I care about you. A lot. As a person, not just a girl I made love to for four minutes the other night. And I'm scared of what's happening to you. You're acting really fucked up. 
 Please just let me show you. Her gaze is so intense and crazed that Chip has no option but to submit. He nods reluctantly. 
 Look at this. She thrusts a piece of paper into CHIP's hands. 
 (CONFUSED) Demon...demonic... 
 Demonic transference. It's something that happens when you try to sacrifice a virgin to Satan without using an actual virgin! CHIP stares at her. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) I think that's what happened to Jennifer. Those guys from that band were trying to sacrifice her in the woods. But what they didn't realize is that she hasn't been a virgin since junior high! Jennifer's a total cum-dumpster! It all makes sense now! Read this... She grabs the piece of paper from him. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) 
 (READING) "If the human sacrifice is impure, the result may still be attained, but a demon will forever reside the soul of the victim. She must forever feed on flesh to sustain the demon." See? CHIP looks more dubious than ever. 
 Uh-huh. 
 She's eating boys! They make her strong. Really strong. And when she's hungry, she gets weak and cranky and her hair is all full of split ends. And look at this... She holds up one of the printouts. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) It says that before the demon feeds, it vomits a gruesome substance on its prey. Like I saw! 
 You--you really think Jennifer killed Jonas and Colin? 
 And possibly Ahmet from India. 
 Really? You think she ate those guys? 
 No. No! Of course not! 
 Is that what you think? 
 No...Listen, I'll make an appointment with Mr. Feely. I'm real sorry about this sudden onset of teenage paranoia. (ROBOTIC) My hormones and emotions are aswirl, and my moods are erratic... CHIP isn't totally convinced, but his face softens. 
 It's all right, Needy. 
 This has been a crummy school year, Chip. 
 No shit. Needy turns and pitches the black binder into a Dumpster. 
 Listen, I'm done with all that devil stuff. Do you know what you're wearing to Turnabout? 
 I was thinking a suit with black shoes and a boutonniere, right here. (CONTINUED) 
 V.O. I was so in love with him. I didn't want to mess it up with my infectious crazy. Only I wasn't actually crazy. Everyone else was crazy. But when you're the only sane one, you might as well be crazy. It's subjective, you know? 
 What color dress are you gonna wear? I need to order your wrist corsage. 
 I don't know yet. 
 How about magenta? You're definitely a winter. My mom says winters should wear regal jewel tones like magenta. Or possibly teal. 
 Oh yeah, your mom's an Avon lady. 
 Well, they call them "sales reps" now. 
 Right. Well, I'll try to find something magenta. 
 That'll look dope. 
 You look beautiful. 
 I look pork stupid. 
 No, you've got that tiny waist, like a fashion model. I always thought you looked like Cindy Crawford. She gently takes off Needy's glasses. 
 Who's Cindy Crawford? 
 One of the great beauties of our time. She's even got a mole like you, except hers is on her face. She takes a section of Needy's hair and wraps it around the curling iron. Smoke rises. 
 Ow! You're too close to my neck. 
 Well, if Chip gives you a hickey, you can just tell everyone I burned you. 
 Gross, Mom. Chip isn't that ostentatious. 
 Now that's a word you don't hear every day. Hold still. 
 What are you doing to my hair? 
 Hooker helmet. 
 (GROANING) Aw, jeez Mom! 
 If you can't have big what-nots, you might as well have big hair! 
 I'm in underpants, Mom! We hear the voice of'S MOM through the door. 
 CHIP'S MOM I need to give you something. 
 Hang on. Chip puts on a robe and opens the door. 
 CHIP (CONT'D) Ladies' pepper spray? 
 CHIP'S MOM I've been thinking about it for a while, and I think you need to be carrying this. There's obviously a sicko out there who likes boys. Boys your age. And I don't want you going out there unarmed. 
 I can take care of myself. I've been using the Bowflex. In the background, we can see the BOWFLEX with clothes hanging off it. 
 CHIP'S MOM Did you hear what Colin Gray looked like when they found him? (CONTINUED) 
 Lasagna with teeth? 
 CHIP'S MOM You heard. So unless you want to wind up looking like another exotic Eye-talian dish, take Mommy's rape spray. Chip reluctantly accepts the spray. CHIP'S MOM (CONT'D) Are you picking Needy up at her house? 
 Meeting her at the dance. I'm gonna walk. It's so warm outside. It's like 40. 
 CHIP'S MOM I want pictures with your sister before you go. 
 Yes, ma'am. 
 CHIP'S MOM One more. Back to back. Big smiles. Camille, we don't touch ourselves down there. That's our lady garden. 
 (popping balloon) This is my heart. (CONT'D) (popping balloon) My soul. 
 #2 (MOCKINGLY) Your abortion. 
 I hate your guts, Madison. The girls glare at each other. 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI Can I have everyone's attention please? The students turn to look at him, annoyed by the distraction. 
 
! makes an incoherent noise and jumps as Jennifer appears, improbably, right in front of him. She's wearing a gorgeous white formal gown and looks perfect. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Didn't you hear me calling your name? 
 You weren't calling my name. 
 Yes, I was. 
 I couldn't hear it. 
 I think you were maybe spacing out. You were like this: Derrrrr. She mimics a blank, drooling expression. 
 I was? (CONTINUED) 
 Yes, exactly like that. Listen, I need to talk to you about you-know- who. Our little Needy. 
 I know. 
 Are you worried? `Cause I'm super- stressed about her. God knows how I even sleep at night. 
 She hasn't been the same for weeks. 
 I think I know what's wrong with her. In fact, I know I know what's wrong with her. 
 Then tell me. 
 I feel bad telling you this. (SIGHING) Okay, you know Needy's been a total Lithium candidate since the night Colin Gray died. But that's not just because he was brutally murdered and stuff. It's because....I don't wanna say this. 
 Say it! 
 Needy and Colin were intimate. By that I mean he was poking her donut on a semi-regular basis. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) I know this must be hard for you to hear. 
 Needy's not like that. 
 That's what she wants you to believe. But trust me, her and Colin were doing stuff you haven't even heard of. Total varsity moves. 
 But you were with Colin the night he was killed. 
 Well, apparently he had a thing for me-- no surprise there. And I figured Needy was busy jumping your jock that night, so I agreed to a little pity date. Colin brought me to that empty house so we could have some privacy. But he wanted to go too far, so I left after a few minutes. Next thing I knew, they'd found... She sniffles, wiping her eye. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) ...what was left of him. 
 (to himself) Eye-talian. 
 Huh? 
 Never mind. 
 I'm sorry you had to hear this from me. I'm just so worried about Needy. She's losing her shit. Colin was her everything. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) I wouldn't be surprised if she winds up in the nuthouse. 
 I just can't believe this. 
 Well, you've been talking to her more than I have. How bad is it? 
 It's bad, man. It's bad. 
 I can only imagine the paranoid theories she's come up with. 
 Oh, you have no idea. 
 I just can't believe she would do this to you. I care so much about you, Chip. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) More than I've ever had the guts to admit. 
 MR. WROBLEWSKI Boys and girls, please welcome...Soft Shoulder! The heavy stage curtains part to reveal SOFT SHOULDER in all their glory. Success has treated them well-- they're glowing and wearing designer rock n' roll couture. They look like the young Rolling Stones. Needy drops her cup. Juice splatters onto the ground. 
 Good evening, babies. Are you ready for some bad vibrations? 
 Chip! (CONTINUED) 
 Needy didn't deserve a boy like you. 
 V.O. One thing people don't know about me is that I'm fast. I just never went out for track because I look bad in shorts. Also, Jennifer told me track was for lezzies. But I am. Fast, I mean. Even in that fucking afterbirth of a dress, I could really tear up the asphalt. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) I had to. I was running for his life. 
 Ooh, you're so salty! 
 Yeah, you too. 
 Say it like you mean it. 
 You're so salty. I need water. It burns. The salty burns my mouth. (CONTINUED) 
 Say I'm better than Needy. 
 What? Why? 
 We really shouldn't be doing this. She pulls away from him, feigning a guilty conscience. 
 (QUICKLY) You're better than Needy. Jennifer smiles, satisfied. 
 Natch. She resumes kissing him enthusiastically. 
 This feels weird. Can we go somewhere else? 
 I have just the place. 
 Murphy Pool? I don't think we can go in there. I knew some skater guys who went in there. They got in big trouble and now they have to pick up garbage for 100 hours. Jennifer giggles and pulls him along. 
 You're in big trouble anyway. Come on. 
 (STRAINED) Well, hi there Camille! Is Chipper home? 
 CHIP'S MOM Needy? Is something wrong? 
 Where's Chip? 
 CHIP'S MOM (CONFUSED) He left for the dance at least twenty minutes ago. He certainly should have been there by now. 
 He walked? Mrs. Dove, you mean to only tell me that in these dangerous, godless times-- you let your only son walk alone at night? 
 CHIP'S MOM Well, it's only five blocks. My God, your hair is... 
 Which way did he go? 
 CHIP'S MOM He usually cuts across the park. She turns to scold Camille. CHIP'S MOM (CONT'D) Camille, let's sit like a lady! No one wants to see your kiki. She turns back to address Needy. 
 Aren't you cold? 
 Never, Trevor. I'm hot like magma. She prances over to the abandoned pool and begins to climb down the ladder on the side. The pool is full of filthy, freezing water. 
 What are you doing? 
 Swimming. 
 Ha ha. 
 Come on in, Chip. Show me your breast stroke. 
 The water looks disgusting. 
 It's not so bad. 
 Are you kidding? It's totally bubonic in there. I think I see a dead possum with a Doritos bag in its pouch. And that looks like a used syringe over there... He slaps away a FLY. 
 I'm sorry. I was just trying to make you laugh. I think now, more than ever, we need laughter. We've both lost a close friend. CHIP nods sadly. 
 I know. 
 I feel so empty. 
 Me too. 
 Please come here and kiss me again. Make all this madness go away. Chip tiptoes forward tentatively and sinks to his knees. He leans in and kisses Jennifer, who's still clinging to the ladder. The sound of buzzing flies grows louder. Suddenly, Jennifer opens her eyes. She hooks her arm around Chip's neck and lunges backward. They tumble off the ladder, into the pool. Chip SCREAMS. 
 (YELLING) Chip! A terrified SCREAM in the distance. Needy whips around, hikes up her skirt and starts running toward Murphy Pool. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) I'm coming! She flings herself over the top of the fence, her body slamming against the concrete pool deck. Her ARM snaps. It's a compound fracture, the bone thrusting through the flesh of her arm as she screams. 
 (MOUTHING) Needy! 
 Holy crap! 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) Saint Jude, patron saint of hopeless causes: Please give me the power to crush this bitch. Jennifer looks up with demonic, bloodshot eyes just as Needy leaps off the diving board. Needy lands on Jennifer's shoulders, taking her out. She wraps her legs around Jennifer's neck and drags her under the water. Jennifer emerges. Needy grabs her by the hair and girly- slaps her furiously across the face. Then she spots the PEPPER SPRAY lying by the side of the pool. She grabs it and sprays it in Jennifer's eyes. Jennifer shrieks and vomits NASTY, SPINY GORE all over Needy and Chip. 
 Fuck this J.V. shit! Jennifer ROCKETS straight up into the air like a goddess, hovering ten feet above the pool. Her eyes burn. Her skin is corpselike. She's drenched from head to toe in the prickly ooze. 
 (CROAKING) She can fly? 
 She's just hovering, CHIP. It's not that impressive. Jennifer speaks in a metallic, demonic-sounding voice. 
 God, do you have to undermine everything I do? You're such a player-hater. 
 You're a jerk. 
 Nice insult, Lizzie McGuire. Got any more harsh digs? 
 You know what? You were never a good friend. Ever. Even when we were little. You used to steal my toys and pour lemonade on my bed and make me be Ugly Ashley when we played Barbies! 
 And now I'm eating your boyfriend! See? At least I'm consistent. 
 Why do you need him? Huh? She begins to weep. 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) (SOBBING) Why do you need the one guy who's ever liked me? You can have anyone, Jennifer! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NEEDY (CONT'D) The cutest guy in school. The mailman. A teacher. You could probably even have a huge star like Chad Michael Murray. So why Chip? Why him? Is it just to piss me off? Or is it because you're insecure? 
 I am not insecure. God, what a joke! How could I be insecure? I was the Snowflake Queen! 
 Yeah, two years ago. When you were socially relevant. 
 I AM STILL SOCIALLY RELEVANT! 
 You were skinny then, too! A look of ABJECT HORROR on Jennifer's face. She reels back against the chain link fence, her eyes blazing. 
 I'm gonna eat your soul and shit it out, Lesnicki. Her voice is now an unearthly growl. In the background, Chip is slowly, painfully pulling a POOL SKIMMER with an eight-foot handle off the pool deck. 
 (TREMBLING) I thought you only murdered boys. 
 I go both ways. She HURTLES herself toward Needy, roaring, her eyes white- hot, her jaws agape. She's monstrous. Chip suddenly stumbles in front of Needy and holds the HANDLE of the POOL SKIMMER in front of them like a spear. As Jennifer flies forward at demonic speed, she IMPALES HER ENTIRE TORSO on the handle. Needy screams. There's a beat of deafening silence. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Ow-Ow-Ow. Needy watches, and realizes Jennifer is injured. Blood drips onto the pool deck. 
 (SURPRISED) We hurt you... 
 Got a tampon? Needy shakes her head mutely. 
 JENNIFER (CONT'D) Thought I'd ask. You seemed like you might be pluggin'. 
 Where are you going? 
 Fuck this noise. I'm out. You losers are more trouble then you're worth. She continues climbing. 
 (EMOTIONAL) Why give up now? He's almost dead! Get your bulimic ass back here and kill us both! 
 Nah. I mean, you say I've been a bad friend all these years. I might as well throw you a bone. 
 Oh, Chip! 
 Needy. You saved me. 
 I'm gonna call for help. 
 Oh no, I'm out of minutes! 
 I think 911 is always a free call. 
 Oh yeah. You're right. 
 It's not working. It's full of Jennifer-goo. 
 (FAINTLY) Hey, I'm going somewhere... 
 No! You're not going anywhere! 
 I'm toast, Needy. I'm definitely gonna die. I think I already died before you were here, but I woke up when I heard your voice. 
 I love you. 
 Yeah me too. And you look hot in that dress. 
 You're clearly delirious. 
 No. When you're dying, you can see everything a lot clearer. You can see what's true and what's not. The things that are true have this glowing halo of light around them, like a picture of the Baby Jesus, or Barbara Walters when they use the special lens. And I know for sure that you're totally hot. 
 CHIP (CONT'D) You'd better get out of here. The police are going to come and I don't want them to, you know, make a mistake. 
 I'm never leaving. 
 But I have to go. 
 No! Chip's eyes close. His face relaxes. He's gone. Needy wails at the top of her lungs. She rests her head against his mutilated chest, oblivious to the blood and bone. 
 This sucks old-man balls. 
 Shut up. It's good PR. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) (to audience) I said, it's so good to be here! The students cheer approvingly, their faces bright and hopeful. 
 What are you looking at, Clumpy? 
 (QUIETLY) Just watching your old man try to suck the ugly off your face. 
 What did you say? 
 GUY (CONT'D) Are you supposed to be Goth or something? (CONTINUED) 
 Did you know the original Goths were a Germanic tribe that settled in Rome? They didn't wear black. They wore regular linen tunics. I don't know why nobody else knows that. 
 (to Dirk) We gotta get out of here. 
 Why? 
 I think this girl's flipping out. 
 What could she do to us? 
 Look at her. Dirk takes one look at Needy's face and takes off his guitar. Nikolai motions for the rest of the band to leave the stage. The music stops abruptly. The kids in the gym murmur and complain, confused. (CONTINUED) 
 (into the mic) You didn't play your hit yet. But they're gone. Needy looks out at her classmates. They stare back. She PASSES OUT COLD. 
 V.O. They found Chip the following morning. The police couldn't find an explanation for the "substance" in the pool, so they chose not to mention it to the press. In fact, they treated the whole incident like a bad dream. 
 Trouble was, some of us would never wake up. 
 V.O. I never went back to school after that. Didn't talk much either. My mom bought some books so she could teach me at home like crazy Christians with 14 kids do. But I wasn't a very cooperative student. 
 V.O. What nobody realized was that I was doing a different kind of homework. I was watching her every night. Waiting. We see Jennifer putting the comb down and examining her hair with a appraising eye. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) Waiting for her to get weak and dull. Waiting for her to burn through the life-force she'd stolen from Chip. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) It took weeks, but I finally made my move. Remember? 
 V.O. Even in her last moments of life, she somehow managed to be cooler than me. 
 She left an insanely hot corpse. 
 V.O. I don't even know who Needy Lesnicki is anymore. I'm a different person now. A person who uses curse words and kicks orderlies and and sees things that aren't there. A very bad, very damaged person. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) But sometimes, change can be good. For instance, most occult scholars don't know this, but if you're bitten by a demon--and you live-- you just might absorb some of the demon's abilities. In the moonlight, we see Needy still has a infected- looking BITEMARK near her shoulder. She scratches it, wincing. 
 NEEDY V.O. (CONT'D) You just might get lucky for once in your miserable life. 
 (SINGING) "Through the trees, I will find you. Heal the ruins left inside you..." 
 (SINGING) "...And the stars will remind you, we'll meet again..." 
 (SINGING) "...We'll meet again." A small creek emptying into a stream   runs parallel to the road. Needy seems something glinting   at the mouth of the creek and stoops to pick it up. It's   Nikolai's BOWIE KNIFE, the one he threw into Devil's   Kettle, never to be seen again. Needy picks it up and tucks it into her waistband. A STATION WAGON comes rattling up the road. Needy sticks her thumb out again. The wagon pulls over to the side of the road. The driver, a grizzled older man, rolls down the window. He eyes Needy lasciviously. 
 Where you looking to go, young lady? 
 East, toward Madison. 
 East, huh? Guess I'm headed that way. But I'm gonna need you to pay me in ass, gas or grass. Got that? No free rides in this wagon. 
 I don't have any money or drugs, so you'll have to settle for ass. 
 Fair enough. Hop in my chariot. Needy gratefully hurries into the driver's seat. (CONT'D) So why you headed East? 
 I'm following this rock band. 
 Huh. Must be a hell of a group. 
 Tonight's gonna be their last show. 
. 
 
