 
. SCOPE POV - focusing on'S FACE, magnified. A digital readout: "SCANNING..." Then a long SERIAL NUMBER reads out and the name, "LIONEL ALEXANDER CANTER," along with other personal information below. THE ASSASSIN puts away the scanner scope, satisfied. He reaches a hand into a pocket, withdraws a mysterious DEVICE. The size of a first generation cellphone, it has a military look, with a clear sliding panel over safety switches and buttons. The ASSASSIN hurries toward, but before he can 
-- A sleek, futuristic LIMOUSINE pulls up and TUXEDO gets in the back. They're gone in an instant. The ASSASSIN, frustrated, dashes for his MOTORCYCLE. He starts it and pursues the limousine. 
 I'm not really in the mood for opera, Armando. ARMANDO nods knowingly pulls back into traffic. 
 F Street? 
 
 (UNDOING BOWTIE) You read my mind. Let's not mention this to my Dad... As he speaks, he passes a few BILLS over the seat. 
 I can find my way back. ARMANDO nods and pulls away. moves toward the entrance, says a word into an INTERCOM with a SURVEILLANCE CAMERA. The door opens within moments, he disappears inside. THE ASSASSIN parks his bike, a few steps behind. Tuxedo has vanished through the STEEL DOOR before he can catch up with him. 
 This is a private club. 
 I just need to talk to-- THE STEEL DOOR has already shut in his face. 
 Mind if I join you? A stunningly beautiful in edgy, dramatic clothes stands nearby. Tuxedo, recovering from the hit, gestures graciously for her to sit. She picks up one of the cords, gives him a sly smile. She opens her mouth, SPARKS fly to her tongue and-- 
-- 
 Get lost, meatbag. 
-- GREER squeezes off a couple of SHOTS. The PSYCHO's too fast, he LEAPS through a cracked WINDOW. 
 Let's call for back-up. 
 Where'.s the sport in that? 
 
 You have the right to remain silent-- But the PSYCHO has grabbed something from the trash, manages to SQUIRT BUG SPRAY in Greer's eyes. Greer's blinded temporarily, the PSYCHO squirms away, running from between buildings across a street-- WHAM! He's hit full-on by a SEMI, his body FLIES through the air. He LANDS HARD on cement, but amazingly is still alive. He tries to get up, but-- plants a foot on his chest and holds him fast against the ground. Greer, still wiping at this eyes, points his weapon at the PSYCHO's head. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Stay with me asshole-- 
 Why would I do that? The grins-- then his head lolls back, eyes empty. 
 Is this Kathy Welles...? My name is Jennifer Peters, with the FBI's surrogate crime division... 
 Am I in trouble? 
 (waves him off) Nah, go back to work. rises as his PHONE CHIMES, he touches his earpiece. IN BG, the DRIVER pulls away. 
 GREER (CONT'D) 
 PETERS (FILTER) 
 He's a rental. He disconnects, reaches to turn the PSYCHO's head to one side. The back of his skull is smashed. Instead of gore and brains, we see torn GRAY PLASTIC and dense CIRCUITRY, oozing pinkish hydraulic fluid at his neck. We're in a world of SURROGATES, remotely operated synthetic humans (also known as SYNTHs). These are not artificially-intelligent robots-- each is linked directly to a human being, miles or hundreds of miles away. Surrogates are distinguishable from flesh-and-blood humans primarily by their physical perfection-- ugly surrogates are rare. On closer look, their eyes may have an inhuman quality. Without a human mind sending and receiving impulses, they are completely inert. Suddenly the PSYCHO comes to life, spins his head around at an impossible angle and BITES'S HAND. 
 I don't recommend reconnecting, Ms. Welles... hello? The WOMAN on the floor TWITCHES, her eyes open. She sits up on her elbows, looks down to see-- --her legs are gone. The bottom half of her is missing, her tattered T-shirt covers the damage, soaked with dark green and pink liquids-- coolant and hydraulic fluids. 
 Aw crap, I'm totalled! 
 Your insurance ought to cover it. 
 --trash pick-up on Maple and 4th. 
 DISPATCHER (FILTER) Coulda just called it in, we'd a shut him down from here-- 
 Any ID from the rental agency? 
 DISPATCHER (FILTER) Yeah, got a name from their office in Miami. Ness, Harold P. 
 
 (A) Harry P. Ness. 
 Oh. False ID? 
 You think? 
 Don't be in a rush to get home, Tom. Two surries down outside The Pit, hard-core club on F street. GREER picks up the pace, heads OUT OF FRAME. 
 Abandoned. 
 Or something happened to the operator. and PETERS stand over the corpse, a UNIFORM stands nearby. Greer holds his SCANNER near her head. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Registered to a Cameron Michaels, out in Clarksburg... 
 Left a message. GREER is leaning closer to the dead Blonde's face. X-CLOSE-- CRACKS in the GLASS of her eye. We see GREER'S FRAGMENTED REFLECTION as he peers at this. 
 Optics are damaged. 
 Musta cracked when she fell. 
 Couldn't get an ID from this one. GREER kneels by Tuxedo, looks at his fancy CUFFLINKS. 
 A tux? Kind of over-dressed for a jacker joint. pulls out his scanner. BY TUXEDO's FACE, the SCANNER reads "NO SIGNAL." seems surprised. PETERS looks over his shoulder. 
 Maybe he's real. 
 Little too pretty for that. lifts one of Tuxedo's eyelids-- CLOSE, shattered GLASS, ELECTRONICS visible within. 
 GREER (CONT'D) He's synth all right. 
 Looks like the optics exploded... Greer reaches behind Tuxedo's head, pulls out a small specially-shaped TOOL and pries up the PANEL at the back of Tuxedo's skull. He pulls out-- THE CIRCUIT BOARD, melted and scorched. 
 So much for the identity chip. 
 I'll call for a pick-up. Maybe diagnostics can make sense of it. Greer stands up, looks toward the Blonde's body. 
 Clarksburg's just up the 270, let's talk to our witness. 
 (a glance at her watch) You always work these kind of hours? 
 Got something better to do? 
 Besides sleep? Greer is already on the move, Peters reluctantly follows. 
 PROPHET (RADIO) You feel you are free. You can be what you want, do what you want, nothing can hurt you. But you have ceased to live. 
 PROPHET (RADIO) You think you control your surrogates, but it is they who have taken over your lives. You lie in your cells, pale and fat prisoners, while the puppets walk and dance and make love... Peters BLINKS and comes to. 
 Welcome back. 
 (re: the radio) Are we actually listening to the Prophet? We oughta lock this guy up and throw away the key. (off Greer's shrug) So is this "know thine enemy?" 
 The Human Coalition isn't "the enemy." 
 You're kidding, right? The Dreads've gotta be behind half the crimes against surries nationwide-- 
 "Dreads..." 
 They dread the present, they dread 
 Sounds like they're doing a bang-up job out there. Why'd you transfer? 
 D. C.'s the heart of the action, right? Plus my ex and I were in the same office, it got a little uncomfortable. 
 (BEAT) You get along with your last partner? 
 Till he retired. Had no idea he was that old. 
 PROPHET (RADIO) .But this I promise: soon the abominations shall fall where they stand... and on that day of resurrection, the dead shall rise... 
 I been having problems with my surrie, this is just a loaner. Is there some kind of trouble? 
 Nothing to worry about. 
 Cam's a good tenant, y'know. Pays the rent on time, never leaves the apartment... 
 Who does? 
 (POUNDS on a door) Cam? Wake up, the police are here to talk to you... 
 Hello? A fat, hairy arm hangs over the side of a high-tech CHAIR. The two feds move quickly to see-- --CAMERON MICHAELS, a 40-ish, overweight, bald male in his underwear. BLOOD runs from his nose, his face twitches slightly; he lies in a STIM CHAIR. 
 Oh my God, Cameron-- GREER quickly detaches the headset, rips a small ELECTRONIC SLEEVE off of Cameron's fingertip. He checks the man's pupil response and pulse. 
 Call the paramedics. While Peters calls in BG, moves to the PROJECTOR'S MONITOR SCREEN and taps a touchpad. ON SCREEN - STATIC. REWINDS to POVs at the hard- core CLUB. FAST FORWARD to the ALLEY, making out with TUXEDO. This is a recording of recent experience, as seen through the eyes of the BLONDE. switches to real-time. Tuxedo breaks the kiss and turns to look OS. 
 Wake up! Wake up! Zombies! Shitpuppetsl Abominations! He moves to a YOUNG COUPLE, both slack-faced, on standby. 
 DREAD (CONT'D) Wake up and smell the piss! He starts to UNZIP in front of them. 
 Not cool. The DREAD turns-- is holding up a BADGE. The Dread scowls, zips up and moves away from Greer, plunks down at the end of the car. Greer pockets his badge calmly. 
 Oh, sorry-- 
 It's OK. Come in-- 
 But where's your... 
 Put him up. I was about to get some sleep. Maggie enters the kitchen, not looking directly at Greer. She puts some bread in a toaster, prepares coffee. 
 You just get in? 
 Some poor cross-sexual had an aneurysm while he was online, had to get him to a hospital. Maggie winces, disturbed by her husband's job. She flips on a small flatscreen TV, volume low. NEWS and WEATHER. 
 I think I need a new stim chair. 
 Bedsores? Want me to take a look? 
 
 (TAKEN ABACK) No thanks, it's just some irritation. 
 Well, there's room on the credit card. 
 (BEAT) It's been a while since... we've actually been together. 
 
 No, I just meant-- 
 Because I think we're doing just fine. 
 But that's our surrogates. It's not the same... 
 It's better. 
 (SHRUGS) I wish that instead of working every night, you would come out with me, go dancing, we used to have such a good time-- 
 I was thinking more like a vacation. An island somewhere. 
 (likes the idea) Bridget said she got an amazing deal on a surrie rental in Tahiti-- she looked just like a native. 
 I mean a real vacation-- just us. Leave our synth units home. 
 
 MAGGIE (CONT'D) Sleep well. She takes her breakfast through a door in the hall just off the kitchen-- we can't see inside the room. We hear the DOOR LOCK behind her. GREER looks after his wife, a bit dejected. In the quiet he registers a voice from the TV: 
 COMMERCIAL V.0. (CONT'D) Now... a better world. A BEAUTIFUL GIRL ENTERS FRAME, turns TO CAMERA and smiles. Behind her, more happy, healthy, handsome YOUNG PEOPLE in an abstract, WHITE SPACE. WIDER, there are THOUSANDS of them. 
 COMMERCIAL V.0. (CONT'D) Virtual Self Industries. ON TV - The LOGO for VSI comes on the screen. 
 COMMERCIAL V.0. (CONT'D) Do what you want. Be what you want. 
 #1 Yo, Canter! 
 #2 Maybe he's still hung over. 
 #1 He's gonna miss the exam. They try the door-- unlocked. 
 #1 Aw, Jesus... IN THE BED is a YOUNG MALE CORPSE, a SENSORY PROJECTOR attached to his head, the RED GLOW. OVERHEAD LIGHTS flick on to reveal goopy BLOOD at his nose and ears, the pillow soaked. 
 (V.0.) Tuxedo's operator turned up, student at Yale name of Anthony Canter... 
 They're uploading his memory file. Seems we're dealing with an actual homicide. PETERS, at the other (much neater) desk, leans in to look over Greer's shoulder while the file uploads. 
 You sound pleased. 
 Well, you get a little tired of property crime, vandalism-- 
 Thought you took your job seriously. Surrogates are extensions of people's selves-- 
 What are you, quoting VSI? 
 The Supreme Court. ANTHONY STONE, Greer's BOSS, has entered Greer's office during the above. He's silver-haired, friendly, in perfect shape-- another surrogate. He's clearly heard this argument before. 
 PETERS (CONT'D) Synthetic units have the same rights as biologicals. 
 Yeah, yeah. Fact is, most of the people you refer to as Dreads are just too poor to afford a synth. You think they like living on reservations? 
 That's humanist propaganda. The restricted areas were their idea, they hate being around surries. 
 Get a room, you two. He leans between them, hits a button on Greer's computer. ON SCREEN - A NEW HAVEN PD LOGO at the top of the screen, indicating this is an EVIDENCE FILE. In a large WINDOW, TUXEDO'S POV RECORDING plays. We now see the foreplay in the alley from the other perspective. FOOTSTEPS, Tuxedo pulls away from the BLONDE-- --and turns to confront THE HELMETED ASSASSIN. TUXEDO's 
: - 
 (O.S.) Get lost, meatbag. THE ASSASSIN narrows his eyes-- then WHITE LIGHT fills the screen, the BLONDE'S SCREAM CUTS OUT as the audio goes. Then STATIC and BLACKNESS. GREER, PETERS and STONE react to this. 
 Poor kid. Pathologist said his brains looked like soup. 
 
 (WINCES) What could do that to someone? 
 Lightning strike, according to forensics. A massive power surge shoots through the network... 
 Two people in a narrow alley, surrounded by fire escapes, cell towers...? 
 Got a better idea? In any case, let's be discreet about this. There'll be panic in the streets if the public gets the idea that using their surries can kill them... Greer is rewinding the IMAGE. He points to the face of the ASSASSIN, partly shielded within his helmet. They only get a partial of his face, it ENLARGES and 
. 
 Is he the perp, or just some lookie-loo--? 
 He's a "meatbag" all right. Look at those scars... An INTERCOM beeps, GREER hits a button. 
 What you got? 
 Next of kin. You sitting down? Kid's father is Lionel Alexander Canter. The Lionel Canter. GREER, PETERS and STONE take this in, stunned. STONE leans closer to the intercom. 
 Stone here. Under no circumstances do you discuss this matter with anyone, inside or outside the Bureau. Got me? 
 Yes, sir. GREER disconnects the intercom, STONE moves to leave. 
 You still thinking lightning? 
 Dr. Canter is expecting you. But no weapons are permitted in the penthouse. 
 We're federal agents. 
 I'm sorry. You'll have to leave them with me. At Greer's nod, Peters takes out her holstered GUN. GREER does the same. The Clerk locks both the agents' guns in a drawer, then comes out from behind the desk. ARMANDO approaches. The Clerk passes him a KEY. 
 I work for Dr. Canter. His private elevator's this way. They follow him toward an ALCOVE in the back of the lobby. 
 You're the one who drove Anthony Canter that night? 
 
 (NODS) I gave the police a statement. AT A PRIVATE ELEVATOR, while ARMANDO turns a key, a SCANNER automatically swings out on a cantilevered arm. 
 is this necessary? 
 Dr. Canter's rules. LIGHT flashes in their faces as they're scanned. The elevator doors open, and the three of them get on. CLOSE ON SCANNER - after they've entered the elevator, small HEAD-SHOTS of GREER and PETERS, vital stats below, appear one after the other on the SCREEN. 
 Kid liked the wild side, huh. Did his father know? Armando doesn't answer, this is getting too personal. 
 Nice place. 
 Canter must get a piece of every surrogate they sell. CANTER emerges from a study. His face is young, but there's some grey at his temples. Otherwise, he looks identical to the dead TUXEDO. takes this in. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Dr. Canter? 
 That's right. You're with the FBI. 
 Yes we are. He leads them into-- 
 We're very sorry for your loss, sir. 
 What progress have you made with the investigation? 
 I can't help noticing, your surrogate-- it's very similar to the unit your son was using... Canter pauses, then moves to a DOOR and opens it.- LIGHTS INSIDE FLICKER ON, revealing-- --a WALK-IN CLOSET with a half-dozen CHARGING BAYS. Four surrogates here, all versions of the man we've just seen-- Canter at different stages of life, from youth to almost elderly. Two of the charging bays are empty. 
 I allowed Tony to borrow one of my surrogates when he wanted to spend time in D.C. I encouraged him to take advantage of the cultural 
-- 
 Wait, how is that possible? Aren't your surries locked to your neural signature? 
 (closing the door) I wrote the code that remains at the core of all surrogates. It wasn't difficult for me to make my synth units accessible to my son. 
 - Like getting the keys to dad's car. 
 I suppose... 
 (BEAT) The coroner says that Tony was online when it happened. Why hasn't the surrogate been returned to me? 
 We're still analyzing the damage-- 
 It was attacked? 
 We really can't get into the details of an ongoing investigation-- 
 Dr. Canter-- we don't know of any way to kill an operator remotely. Do you? 
 No, but-- at the beginning, all of us at VSI were worried about it. It's why every surrogate has a built-in fail-safe, they disconnect before they can transmit a potentially dangerous signal. 
 Can you think of anyone who might want to harm your son? 
 I... the sad fact is, Tony and I were just getting to know each other... he grew up with his mother in California. Canter's voice drifts off, he's starting to look far away, pained. He sits slowly behind his desk. 
 CANTER (CONT'D) If this wasn't an accident... then it's because of me that he's... 
 (BEAT) I'm sorry. You'll have to excuse me. 
 Guess the interview's over. 
 
 Not really. You got kids? 
 (shakes her head) Jim and I talked about it, but... 
 Lot of that going around. He starts to place the card on the desk before the immobile Canter. Armando steps forward warily-- Greer shows him the card before putting it down. 
 GREER (CONT'D) If he thinks of anything else. 
 
 So we're talking mistaken T.D. 
 Someone targeted Canter's surrie, got the wrong operator. They get to their car, parked in a RED ZONE. curls his lip at a METER MAID-- a DRONE SURROGATE ON WHEELS, NO EARS, as it rolls calmly away from his car. 
 GREER (CONT'D) I'm sure the guy's got enemies he never even heard of. 
 My money's on the Dreads. (off Greer's look) Excuse me, the "humans." Greer rips the TICKET from the windshield, tears it in half and throws it in the back of the car, as they both get in. 
 .Dr. Lionel Canter's breakthrough experiments led to the technology for decoding brain impulses and transferring the signals to synthetic humans... 
 Damn. Why didn't I think of that? The two of them move on to an ELEVATOR BANK. 
 Thank you. 
 Mr. Welch will be with you in a minute. 
 (SHIMMIES OUT) 
 She's a little over the top. 
 Just advertising the product. (sips his coffee) Ugh. 
 It's delicious, if you want it to be. Adjust your interface. 
 Right, I keep forgetting that. 
 (ANOTHER SIP) Mmm. So good. They rise as-- 
 Agents Greer and Peters? I'm Victor Welch, VP corporate relations. He shakes their hands. 
 Thanks for taking the time to see us. 
 No problem. Do you happen to know Andy Stone? 
 Our immediate superior. 
 Really. Do give him my regards-- The MALE LAWYER cuts him off, leaning across the table to shake hands. 
 We're from the legal department. 
 Hope you don't mind if we sit in. 
 Not at all. I didn't get your names--? 
 
 Mm. Any idea what could cause a surrogate's head to explode from the inside? On the table, in a plastic EVIDENCE BAG, is a fried CIRCUIT-BOARD along with a pair of SHATTERED EYEBALLS. Greer passes this to Welch, who barely looks at it. 
 Mr. Welch isn't qualified to answer that question. You'd be better off speaking to one of our technicians. WELCH smiles pleasantly. 
 What does the operator say? 
 Not much. He's dead. 
 A massive brain hemmorhage, it happened while he was online. 
 I'm sorry to hear that. But I can assure you it has nothing to do with VSI products. If a man suffers a heart attack while driving, he doesn't have a case against the automobile manufacturer. WELCH nods in agreement. GREER gamely continues to address his questions to the VP. 
 No one's talking lawsuit. we'd just like to know, is there any precedent for an operator being killed by signals from his synth unit? 
 
 (ALMOST INDIGNANT) 
-- 
 The idea is absurd. If it were possible, it would defeat the purpose of surrogacy. 
 Surries have jumped from bridges, been shot or blown to bits without the least harm to the operators- the fail-safes always kick in. Every case that's been brought against VSI has been shown to be the result of user negligence. 
 We can't help it if customers forget to eat, sleep or take their medicine. WELCH shrugs and rises, followed by the lawyers. 
 If that's all... a pleasure talking with you. 
 There is one more thing. The victim was Anthony Canter. The son of one of your company's founders. studies them as they process this news. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Kind of a strange coincidence. 
 Dr. Canter has retired, but we'll be sure to send our condolences. 
 What's our take-away? 
 
 (SHRUGS) I used to be able to read people, back when they were people... 
 You mean before they all became lawyers? 
 
 (A) You made a joke. Maybe there's hope for you, Peters... They head for a MANUFACTURING COMPLEX. 
 Mr. Waters? Seth Waters? checks the man's ID BADGE-- a PHOTO of a pudgy, bearded white man with glasses, the name SETH WATERS. Suddenly, WATERS snaps out of it, looks down at the two agents. Despite his appearance, his manner is nerdy. 
 Hello, sorry. I was in the can. 
 We were told you could help us with some technical issues. 
 To whom am I addressing myself? 
 We're with the FBI. He studies the BADGES they hold out. 
 Really? Cool. 
 Heat build-up like this? Every circuit musta fired at once. Kablooie. GREER and PETERS hover nearby. Waters turns his attention to the shattered eyes, picks one up. 
 Ever seen anything like it before? 
 Not exactly... but last week we got a truckload of GI Joes back for reconditioning. Couple a the surries were missing optics. 
 May we take a look? 
 Old soldiers never die... He consults a HAND-HELD COMPUTER, checks CODE NUMBERS on the bags. The SOLDIER'S FACES are all eerily similar... even identical. No reason to customize cannon fodder. 
 WATERS (CONT'D) Here we go. He peels back the plastic on another identical SOLDIER whose EYES are missing. The body is otherwise undamaged. 
 No bullet holes, no blast damage--? 
 Not a scratch. GREER moves Waters aside, looks the body over. 
 Brand new camos, no mud, no dirt... this thing's never seen combat. Name and unit insignia removed... let me check out the motherboard. 
 Didn't come back with one. I thought it was a little weird. GREER stares into the empty eyesockets of the soldier. He hooks a finger in, comes out with-- A glistening SHARD OF GLASS on his fingertip. 
 I'm down, I'm down! A CONTROLLER works quickly at a board. COLONEL BRANDON,_a flesh and blood career military man, in uniform, moves past Pulaski's stim chair, gives him a warning look. 
 Damn things aren't free, Pulaski. Take the snipers from behind this time. 
 Yessir. 
 Back on-line. PULASKI lies back in his stim chair, RED LIGHT UP. The POV ON his SCREEN switches to the BACK OF A VAN, the doors open and his new unit charges out, past other REPLACEMENT SOLDIERS still in charging bays. COLONEL BRANDON, moving on, touches his earphone. 
 Yeah, I'll be right over. He CLAPS a CAPTAIN on the shoulder as he moves out. 
 BRANDON (CONT'D) Keep an eye on Bravo company. 
 We will kick some ass, sir. 
 The United States has the largest surrogate army in.the world. Why on earth would the defense department want to develop a weapon that could wipe out our own troops? 
 So no such thing exists? 
 If it did, I'd know about it. 
 Those soldiers we saw-- 
 (a bit impatient) We routinely remove motherboards and optics for analysis. Now if you'll excuse me, we're in the middle of a peacekeeping operation. They've reached their car. Brandon turns on his heel and heads back for a hangar. Greer and Peters look after him for a moment. 
 Think he's telling the truth? 
 Not when his lips are moving. Greer shakes his head as they both get in the car. WITH BRANDON - Out of earshot of the feds, he speaks into a small earpiece. 
 Bill, we may have a problem. Is it possible one of our ODs is loose? 
 Tell me, have you made any progress whatsoever? REVERSE ANGLE, Greer and Peters sit before the screen. 
: 
 Sir, we are not at liberty to comment on an ongoing investigation. 
 Don't blow me off like I'm some goddamn reporter. I have resources of my own, do I have to do your jobs for you? 
 We're exploring every avenue, Dr. Canter, I promise you that, we're doing everything we can. CLOSE ON GREER'S TERMINAL - An INSET of the image of the ASSASSIN'S FACE, no helmet on-- it's much clearer than the one we saw before, this being the bouncer's perspective at the door of the club. We hear CANTER and continue in BG. 
 What. What are you doing? 
 I understand you're grieving-- 
 I'm a target for assassination! I assume you're at least aware of that. WITH PETERS, she looks briefly over her shoulder at Greer with a "help, get me out of this" expression. He remains focussed on the image of the assassin, she turns back to Canter on the screen, maintaining her placating tone. 
 I appreciate your concern and frustration, obviously we all want immediate results, but-- 
 I've heard enough of your condescending pap. The people who did this are going to be punished. DISCONNECTS, his angry face VANISHES. PETERS rises and moves quickly toward Greer. 
 You handled that well. 
 (points at screen) Where'd you get this? 
 The freak who was working the door at the club. Got a look at our perp dead-on. ON SCREEN - The Assassin's features HIGHLIGHT, the words 
 "756." REVERSE ANGLE -- GREER types, PETERS watches. 
 Try narrowing the search for Dread affiliation... ON SCREEN - a DIGITAL RAPSHEET, the name JACK STRICKLAND. A ROTATING 3-D MUGSHOT of STRICKLAND, covering all the angles of his face. 
 Eighty-seven percent match. Close enough for government work. and PETERS quickly scan the man's rapsheet. 
 Jack Strickland, one of the Prophet's groupies... torched a surrogate display at a department store-- 
 And they let him off? 
 No known address... 
 
 Ever come down here? It's like being inside God's head... The DOOR UNLOCKS and they enter-- 
 Burglary in progress, Charlie4639- Romeo7812-Sierra8955, need a warrant to shut him down... gets a message from his headset, kicks his rolling chair across the room to a special TERMINAL. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Warrant received. 
 
 (WHISPERS) He can cut off operators from here? 
 Anybody, anywhere. Ssh, don't tell anyone. It's a gray area legally. PETERS isn't comfortable with this. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Relax, we're the good guys. 
 You're not a surrogate, are you? BOBBY wheels closer. With his mouth full: 
 No ma'am, you're looking at the genuine article. Bobby Sanders. He extends a greasy hand, which she shakes lightly. 
 Jennifer Peters. 
 They've been trying to puppet Bobby for years-- 
 (points at his head) Ain't built the machine yet that can handle this baby. Recognition search caught your dreaddie, screen 11. They move to a screen numbered 11, Bobby taps a CONTROL. 
 Ten minutes ago? Where? 
 Baltimore, corner of Eastern and Decker. Got a feeling he's headed for the reservation. 
 
 (TO PETERS) Stay here, keep tabs on him. 
 What are you doing? 
 (on the move) Getting a chopper. Peters takes this in, calls after him: 
 You need to get approval! GREER makes a jerking off motion and is gone. BOBBY lets out a BELCH and winks at. 
 .maybe I'm not done with the O.D. Maybe you're not gonna get it back at all. Guy could have a lot of fun with your little toy... oh you can do better than that. I'll be in touch... He tosses the cellphone in a trashcan, pulls on his helmet, STARTS the bike and peels out. 
 We're close! Noise suppression! LOPEZ nods, hits a couple of switches. THE LOUD THROB becomes a barely audible WHIRR. We hear PETERS' VOICE over the radio: 
 PETERS (FILTER) Got a hit on the bike, half a mile from the rez, check your screen. ON THE CHOPPER DASH, A GPS DISPLAY of the nearby neighborhood, a BLINKING DOT a short distance away. 
-- Greer clicks off the radio, turns to Lopez. 
 Ignore her, Lopez. Get us as close as you can. LOPEZ grins--and pushes the stick hard-- 
 You really look like your surrie? 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Don't be so touchy. I'm engaged to B-47 down there. He points to one of the many identical female DRONES buzzing along the tracks. PETERS smiles. 
 Freeze! STRICKLAND stumbles away from his bike, into an alcove. The cops approach, guns ready. STRICKLAND yanks off his helmet, pulls his ominous DEVICE from his pocket. Without poking his head out, he aims it in the cops direction. He PRESSES A BUTTON. A row of RED DIODES GLOW on the device as he sweeps it across the alley, but it emits no projectiles and makes no sound. #1 is closer-- his GLASS EYES SHATTER. 
 Jesus, what is that? STRICKLAND is on the run again, scaling the fence. He hasn't spotted the chopper. looks in the direction he's heading-- A HUGE CHAIN-LINK FENCE, topped with barbed wire, stretching across the whole city, just a hundred yards away. PORTRAITS of the PROPHET (the man we heard on the radio), long-haired and bearded, adorn the fence. There's a GATE, with two GUARDS checking those entering, one or two people are waiting. 
 GREER (CONT'D) He gets through the gate, we can't touch him. GREER readies a RIFLE with a SCOPE, loads a TRANQUILIZER DART into the chamber. LOPEZ maneuvers to give Greer an angle out the chopper's side. 
 Pull up, Lopez, pull up! 
 Oh my G-god-- why? What do you people want from me?! 
 You're a killer-- 
 They were just surries! Goddamn machines! 
 
 (A) You really don't know? BLAM! A DOUBLE-BARRELED SHOTGUN BLAST throws GREER backward, away from STRICKLAND. The DART RIFLE flies from his grasp. A heavyset FEMALE DREAD wields the sawed-off shotgun. She gets between Greer and Strickland, who manages to crawl away, vanishing behind other DREADS who are gathering around Greer. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Strickland! Wait! 
 GREER (CONT'D) I'm a federal agent-- 
 You're an abomination. THE WOMAN pumps the shotgun again points it a Greer's head. Just as it GOES OFF-- 
 Maggie! Wake up! He's clearly in pain, clutches his temples. BLOOD begins to gush from his nose. Greer slides down against the door, unable to stand. 
 Please, I need your help... open the door! CAMERA MOVES through the RED-LIT room, to show the WIRES of a SENSORY PROJECTOR, a partial view of MAGGIE'S HEAD. 
 --we're talking turquoise! I wouldn't carry a purse that color, much less a whole new skin. 
 BRB, I just gotta change. Little black dress or red bustier? 
 Bustier. 
 Oh my God. 
 You've been keeping secrets, Jack. TWO LARGE MEN now move into view, flanking the Prophet. Call them BUD and MILLER. They're scruffy, bearded, not surries. 
 No, Prophet, I--- 
 This is unfair to your brother humans. STRICKLAND tries to get out of bed, Bud pushes him down. 
 Please, I haven't done anything... 
 I know what you've done. What I don't know is-- who hired you to betray us? I want a name. 
 I-- I swear to God I don't know-- 
 Jack... 
 He never said his name, we talked on disposable cellphones-- I've never even seen his face! I couldn't tell you who he was if my life depended it! 
. MOVE DOWN to find GREER (the real one), asleep. An IV, BLEEPING monitors. Uneaten LUNCH on a tray. MAGGIE, her surrogate that is, sits in a chair beside the bed, her hand resting on GREER's. He stirs-- she pulls her hand back, returns to her fashion magazine. A TV plays above his bed, Greer blinks, squints at this. ON TV - a small BOY CLIMBS a very tall TREE above a suburban sidewalk, pleasant MUSIC. Suddenly, a BRANCH BREAKS, the boy tumbles with a CRY. GREER winces distastefully. ON TV - now we see the BOY again, perfectly fine, standing beside his mother. She strokes his head with a smile. They look down at his broken SURROGATE on the ground beside the fallen BRANCH. 
 Would you do that? 
 (not looking up) Hm? Do what? 
 Get a surrogate for our kid. Our hypothetical kid. 
 Sure. Why not? They're getting cheaper all the time. 
 COMMERCIAL V.0. (CONT'D) .free of pain, fear and anxiety... IN SLO-MO she releases at the top of the swing's arc and flies into the air... 
 COMMERCIAL V.O. (CONT'D) That world can be real. Thanks to VSI. Our software for growing minds screens out destructive, negative feelings... THE LITTLE GIRL lands hard, but gets up laughing. 
 COMMERCIAL V.0. (CONT'D) Making every childhood a happy one... GREER shakes his head. 
 It just seems weird to me. 
 
 (CHUCKLES) Our grandparents thought seatbelts were weird. She nods toward the IMAGE of a SMILING CHILD on TV. 
 MAGGIE (CONT'D) Not like it's an issue. ON TV - the VSI LOGO. 
 Knock knock. Greer blinks at her. 
 Who's there.- 
 It's me, Peters, don't you recognize me? 
 (almost to himself) I thought you might've been telling another joke. Peters seems relieved. Maggie waits for an introduction, but Greer seems withdrawn, shy-- Peters has never seen his physical body. 
 Hi. I'm Maggie, Tom's wife. 
 A pleasure to meet you. Jennifer Peters. (a glance at Greer) His new partner. 
 (to Greer, brightly) You should have mentioned her. I need to get going anyway, I'll let you two talk business. 
 (TO PETERS) I'm a beauty engineer. Drop by the shop sometime, I'll give you a free consultation. 
 Thanks... (as Maggie leaves) I think. 
 (STUDYING GREER) You look just like your unit. 
 Except older and fatter. Sorry if I seem a little out of it. 
 You've been through a lot. 
 They're calling it a concussion-- felt like my head was going to explode. With a brisk RAP on the doorframe, STONE enters. 
 How ya' feeling, Greer? 
 You tell me. How's Lopez? Stone sighs, looking him over. Quietly: 
 The pilot? They found him dead in his stim chair. Same with one of the Baltimore cops, other's in a coma. Four Dreads were killed on the ground, half a dozen wounded. Greer closes his eyes in misery. 
 It's not your fault. You were doing your job. Stone pulls up Maggie's chair, sits as he speaks. 
 I would have to disagree. You requisitioned that chopper without authorization. You violated our treaty with the Dreads-- we're expecting retaliation. Those poor cops had no idea what they were up 
 None of us did! We still don't know. I don't think Strickland even knew-- he thought he was just taking down "the abominations." 
 I'm sorry, Greer,. but- - you're suspended, pending further action. Greer nods slowly, knew this was coming. PETERS takes a step back, looking on carefully. Greer takes his LAPTOP COMPUTER off the bedside table, opens it so that Stone can see it. 
 I've been going through my memory files of the crash... ever seen anything like this before? ON SCREEN - a magnified CLOSE-UP of the DEVICE in STRICKLAND'S HAND, as he points it upward at the helicopter. 
 It's the murder weapon? GREER nods, STONE studies the laptop, sets his jaw. 
 It's more than that. It means nobody is safe. The Dreads want us all to be like them-- living in fear, no better than animals. And we've only just freed ourselves, begun to explore our true potential. 
 We need to get this guy. 
 We will. Our way of life will be protected, whatever it takes. An attractive SURRIE NURSE enters the room. 
 Good news, Mr. Greer. The doctors say you can go home today. 
 (nervous, thrown) They said the end of the week-- 
 Insurance, you know. She smiles, putting his clothing by the bed and disconnecting him from the IV and monitors. 
 Just take some time to heal. 
 What about my surrogate? 
 Hasn't been-recovered. I'm afraid we can't supply you with a new one until this matter is resolved. Peters, make sure he gets home in one piece. PETERS nods, looking at Greer sympathetically. GREER sinks back into his pillow, anxious. 
 I haven't been out without a surrogate in a long time... 
 It's OK. Nothing's gonna happen. 
 They wanted to give me something for the anxiety... they call it corporeaphobia. 
 Just take my arm. He shakes his head, takes a deep breath and moves out onto the sidewalk. Peters stays close. GREER'S POV - SURRIE PEDESTRIANS, moving quickly, seeming to come right. at him. One bumps into him-- GREER staggers, the surrie moves on as if he hasn't even noticed. Greer moves toward the curb to get away from them, stumbles-- has to pull him out of CAR TRAFFIC, a HORN HONKS. He's sweating, terrified. 
 Jesus Christ. 
 We need to get you a replacement. She takes his arm forcibly and moves him away. 
. 
 Oh you poor guy-- out in just your skin can be scary. No worries, I got perfect surrie for you. He leads them deeper into the store. He wears a clip-on ID BADGE with the smiling face of a dark-haired ASIAN. RACKS OF ATTRACTIVE MALE and FEMALE BODIES, in skimpy BATHING SUITS-- differing heights and degrees of muscle. GREER looks these over. 
 I like to see my own face when I look in the mirror. 
 Fine, you no buy off the rack-- we customize, on premise, less than one hour. As they move on, we glimpse CELEBRITY LOOK-ALIKES on the rack-- MARILYN MONROE and ELVIS PRESLEY. LATER - ON COMPUTER SCREEN, a 3-D RENDERING of GREER'S FACE rotates, shows EXPRESSIONS, smiles, frowns-- and speaks. A VOICE-PRINT runs below. 
 GREER'S VOICE Hello. Testing-one-two-three... THE SALESMAN works the computer, GREER lies in an uncomfortable STIM CHAIR attached to a_SENSORY PROJECTOR, RED GOGGLES over his eyes and a CAMERA pointed at his face. He seems uneasy. PETERS looks on from nearby. 
 No worries, we make you good deal, no payment til next year. Just try one on for size. You like, we lock in your neural code, plastiform your face, you good to go. THE hits a couple of switches, slips a small SLEEVE over GREER'S FINGER, it's wired to the projector. 
 SALESMAN (CONT'D) Take a whirl. Greer touches his fingers together--- his body instantly goes limp and-- -a pale, hairless SURRIE TEMPLATE in a speedo steps out of a CHARGING BAY. Its head is unfinished, a mechanical version of a skinless face. Around its neck is a sign that reads "40% OFF!" 
 SALESMAN (CONT'D) Looking gooood. 
 Try touching your nose. 40% OFF pokes himself in the eye. 
 'SALESMAN (CONT'D) Good, good. Takes some time to break in. Base model come with vision, hearing-- other senses optional. 
 Wait wait wait! I throw in super- sex software package-- fifty percent off! 
 We can try a department store-- if money's a problem, I can front 
 No. I'm a grown man for Chrissake, I should be able to walk down the street without completely freaking out. 
 Well, you made it a block. 
 (lifts his glass) Here's to self-medication. He takes a sip and spits it out. The BARTENDER turns. 
 Are you all right, sir? 
 What is this? The BARTENDER gives him a once-over. 
 Oh, sorry. We don't get a lot of-- that's synthohol. Just a CPU inhibition blocker in a non- corrosive solution... As the bartender speaks, Greer looks around the dark bar-- --in the back, EVERY COUPLE is gazing into each other's eyes, clearly hooking up. GREER continues to watch the other patrons. 
 You have any real booze? 
 No liquor license. 
 Come here often, stranger? 
 You know, they really don't look human. You can't tell when you're inside them, but... turns to PETERS, studies her like the others. 
 I don't like the way you're looking at me. 
 But I'm not really looking at you. 
 Yeah yeah, this is just a lump of aluminum and polystyrene. Tell you what, next time you're in Colorado, look me up for real. We can have a beer together. 
 I'd like that. PETERS blinks, Greer has suddenly gotten sincere on her. He looks away. 
 GREER (CONT'D) You know, when we started working together, I thought you were kind of a stiff. 
 New job, I was defensive. 
 It's more than that... you're different. Or maybe I am. Greer's embarrassed, shrugs it off. He puts down a bill and rises. 
 GREER (CONT'D) You probably oughta head back to the office. 
 I can get you home. 
 I'll be OK. He moves toward the door, she tags along. 
 GREER (CONT'D) I'm thinking you should double- check Strickland's records, go back to the hard copies. See if you can find out why they dropped charges. 
 You seem better already. 
 It's like riding a bike. 
 Where you going? 
 It's a lovely day. Thought I'd take a trip to East Baltimore. He pauses at the top, a hit of vertigo. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Was it always this steep? 
 Jesus, Tom, the rez? 
 Since I'm stuck in my skin, I oughta take advantage of it. Hell, as long as Strickland has that device-- I'm safer this way. He clutches the handrail, starts moving down. 
 Be careful. He nods and waves as he disappears down the escalator. 
 Secure. 
 Goddamn Dreads... sure you don't wanna change your mind? 
 I'm sure. 
 You OK, man? 
 Just a little carsick. The TAXI pulls away, Greer heads for the GATE. 
 Where would I find the, the what do you call it, the Temple? 
 Ten blocks that way, left on Bloomfield. 
 Thanks. (eyes the grim area) Catch a lotta surries tryin' to sneak in, do ya? 
 Piss off. As Greer crosses the rubble-strewn no man's land, he pauses, sickened as he sees-- --the burned-out HELICOPTER HULK, now sprayed with GRAFITTI. "PIGS DIE," etc. And just beyond this-- --what's left of GREER'S SURRIE, half the head blown off with fried electronics hanging out. It's been lashed to a makeshift crucifix, made from the bent CHOPPER BLADES. The clothing is shredded, the remains spray-painted. GREER, wary of being recognized, continues on. 
 Excuse me. 
 Excuse me. You wouldn't happen to know a Jack Strickland? I'm told he worked here off and on. 
 
 (NODS) You're here for the service? It's in the park. 
 --serving faithfully beside us in the cause of humanity. _I had the privilege of hearing his confession shortly before his death. GREER has pushed his way gently toward the front to get a look at the BODY atop the funeral BIER. The corpse atop the bier is that of JACK STRICKLAND, eyes closed, hands folded. 
 PROPHET (CONT'D) And I know he would have rejoiced in the day of resurrection, the day for which we are all preparing, the day I promise you is close at hand... So saying, the PROPHET lifts the torch and touches it to the base of the PYRE, which ERUPTS IN FLAME. CLOSE ON STRICKLAND as the FLAMES lick up around him. LATER, the BIER consumed in FIRE, the MOURNERS dispersing. THE PROPHET is moving away, HANDLERS surrounding him. GREER tags along-- but one of the Prophet's goons, BUD, gets in his face. 
 Who are you? 
 What happened to Jack Strickland? 
 He slipped and fell. Friend of yours? Greer starts to move around him, Bud gets in his way. 
 I'd like a word with the Prophet. 
 You and everyone else. MILLER and ADAMS, another goon, now join them. 
 Strickland was carrying a weapon. If it isn't recovered, there could be serious consequences-- for all of you. IN BG, the PROPHET and HANDLERS head toward a large RV. 
 You some kinda cop? Where's your puppet? 
 Needs repairs. 
 You armed? GREER shakes his head, raises his hands. 
 Frisk me if you want. 
 No, that's OK. With that, he throws a SUCKER PUNCH to the gut. GREER doubles over. He seems amazed at the sensation, the pain. But he recovers, throws a wild punch at Miller an d misses by a foot. [Violence for Greer in human form should have a very different, painfully visceral feel, unlike when he was a surrogate.] 
 MILLER (CONT'D) Hurts, doesn't it. 
 It's a bitch being real. GREER lets out a primal CRY and lunges at MILLER, driving his head into the man's torso, knocking the wind out of him before the other two can pull Greer back. 
 I think he likes it. 
 (catching his breath) So give him some more. Outnumbered three to one, Greer takes a beating, continues to throw mostly ineffective punches that just cause the men to redouble their efforts. Finally, he's limp in their arms. Miller plucks Greer's WALLET and BADGE from his pockets, examines them. As he does so, GREER spits BLOOD on the man's face. Miller seems about to whomp him again, but stops himself. 
 MILLER (CONT'D) Not gonna give you the satisfaction. (to Bud and Adams) Get him out of here. Miller tosses Greer's ID at him, then moves toward the RV, leaving GREER gasping in the clutches of Bud and Adams, lit by the FLAMES from the funeral pyre. 
 Trouble? 
 Some fed named Greer, he wanted to talk to the Prophet. 
 About that turkey shoot in DC? 
 Didn't come up. Said they wanted Strickland's weapon. 
 Well, maybe I'll just have to bring it to their doorstep... In the Prophet's hand, we now see-- --the mysterious DEVICE with which Strickland killed his targets. 
 Guy like you oughtn't be out in just your skin. 
 I'm starting to see your point. AT THE GATE - leaves, trying to muster as much dignity as he can. The DREAD GUARD calls sarcastically after him. 
 Come again real soon! 
 Oops. The assailant is a FREAK SURRIE-- extra ARMS, where his feet should be. A moment later, Greer is surrounded by three rich, FREAKY 
. 
 Watch where you're going, meat. 
 What are you doin' off the rez? She bumps against GREER as he picks himself up, he shrinks from the spikes. She shoots a small blast of FLAME from her nostrils, then GIGGLES. 
 I'm not a Dread. 
 Then you oughta return that surrie, looks like shit. comes at Greer again, Greer moves and TRIPS him-- but he just lands on an extra arm and rights himself. 
 Hey, it wants to play. lowers his head and moves to butt him. GREER dodges, it looks like a bullfight. 
 Ole, toro! They turn, hearing a SCREECH OF TIRES. A LIMOUSINE has pulled up. A 10-year-old BOY climbs from the back and approaches. 
 Agent Greer. Would you like a ride? The kid's voice sounds like a child's, but with mature cadences to his speech. - 
 Check out Richie Rich. THE DRIVER of the Limo steps out-- it's ARMANDO from Canter's lobby. He lets his jacket fall open, revealing a HOLSTERED SIDEARM. 
 We got a problem here? The FREAKS retreat with dirty looks. 
 Fascists. The BOY moves back toward the LIMO. Greer follows. 
 (re: the freaks) So many unforeseen consequences to the surrogate revolution... I suppose I should apologize. 
 Who are you? 
 BOY/CANTER You left this on my desk. ARMANDO has gotten behind the wheel, starts moving. Greer looks at the boy, amazed. 
 Canter? 
 BOY/CANTER It's not safe for me to use my usual surrogates. This is one of VSI's.newer models. Not that the market will be that strong, the birthrate being what it is. 
 You're having me followed. 
 BOY/CANTER You know how important this investigation is to me. 
 
 (A) The man who killed your son is dead. Boy/Canter absorbs this. 
 BOY/CANTER I want you to tell me everything. 
 I suppose you deserve that. 
 BOY/CANTER This Strickland character. I don't believe he could have been acting on his own. 
 Why not? You stand for everything the humanists hate-- 
 BOY/CANTER Then why would his own people murder-him? 
 He'd outlived his usefulness. With me all over his ass, he was becoming a security risk-- 
 BOY/CANTER To kill someone remotely-- it would take a virus presumably, one that could get past every firewall protecting a surrie's circuitry-- then once in the CPU, override all the fail-safes and cause catastrophic brain damage... 
 Presumably. 
 BOY/CANTER We're talking about an 
 
 BOY/CANTER Maybe that's exactly where you should be looking. Greer takes a second to absorb this. 
 So now you're the victim of a government conspiracy? 
 BOY/CANTER I think this is your stop. 
 BOY/CANTER Somebody hired Strickland. You'll know who that is when you trace the weapon. 
 You really don't need to do my job for me. Boy/Canter takes in Greer's disheveled state. 
 BOY/CANTER Yes, I can see you've got things under control. The limo pulls away. Greer pauses, looks up at the sky, letting the rain wash over his face. 
. WIDER, the guy taking the jolt is a lanky male model named BRIAN. His face goes slack. ATMOSPHERIC MUSIC 
. 
 Think my nose is too big... 
 For what? 
 
 While you're at it-- I am so sick of twelve-inch dicks. MAGGIE chuckles. On the coffee table before them sits a small JACKER, like the one we saw in the underground club. The foursome pass a single ELECTRICAL TUBE around, attached by a cord to the device. Andre and Bridget have clearly coupled up, Brian touches Maggie's leg casually from time to time. 
 What do you want, we're men. 
 (coming out of it) Why is that? Why do we all have to be men and women? I'd rather be-- I dunno, a lion. Or an eagle. 
 Mm. A spaceship. Or a cloud. 
 
 (BEAT) A cloud? Maggie shrugs. She lifts the hair from the nape of her neck, moves the GLASS TUBE there. Brian holds her close. The ELECTRICAL ARC-- MAGGIE gasps with pleasure, transported. A moment later, Andre notices that GREER has entered quietly during the above, staring at the foursome. 
 Don't look now. Some homeless meatbag just wandered in. Maggie has blanked out for the moment. Bridget turns. 
 That's Maggie's husband. Hi Tom. She gives him a little wave. Greer moves past them, toward the kitchen, and disappears. Maggie comes out of her trance, blinks and sighs. 
 Excuse me. She hurries after him. Brian shrugs, grabs the tube and starts to unzip his pants-- 
 What happened to you? I thought you were-spending another night in the hospital. 
 Obviously. You know I don't like you jacking in the house. He finds an untouched, dusty bottle of SCOTCH, sniffs it and pours a drink. Maggie looks him over. 
 Somebody beat you up? How could you go out like that? As Maggie speaks, she moves to his side, touching his injuries gently, truly concerned. Greer flinches back. 
 MAGGIE (CONT'D) What were you thinking, Tom? You. could've been killed. 
 Just finding out how the other half lives. 
 GREER (CONT'D) So what's his name? 
 Oh please, grow up. 
 
 (NODS GLUMLY) I suppose it doesn't matter. Since, as you keep telling me, it doesn't mean anything. Nothing does. Greer pours another drink. 
 I don't expect you to understand this. But once in a while, I like to be around people who don't hate being alive. 
 Alive. Is that what they are out there? She shakes her head and returns to the living room. 
 Hey. You really a G-man? Greer pauses, stares at the man. 
 BRIAN (CONT'D) Can I ask you something? Is it true you guys are tapping into our surries? Watching everything we do, twenty-four seven? 
 
 (A) Of course not. 
 Wouldn't want him spying on us tonight... Greer spins near the door and, without breaking stride, returns to the couch. 
 Excuse me. Brian turns, starts to rise. Greer grabs the man and HURLS him backwards onto the GLASS COFFEE TABLE which SHATTERS. The other three back away. After a stunned moment, Brian starts LAUGHING, very hard-- obviously, he hasn't felt a thing. 
 Tom, the table! Greer steps over the couch calmly and begins PUNCHING and KICKING the surrie on the floor, working off pent-up rage. BRIAN just keeps LAUGHING. Soon Greer's hands are cut and bleeding, he's panting, exhausted. finally succeeds in pulling him away.- BRIAN sits up, his FACE is DENTED, the plastic skin STRETCHED and TORN. 
 Could we do it again? 
 
 I was getting sick of it, anyway. As Brian picks bits of GLASS out of his plastic flesh, Andre suddenly realizes his JACKER is SMASHED, examines the pieces with a MOAN. 
 Guess the party's over. MAGGIE follows to the door. They speak in hushed 
: 
 What was the point of that? 
 Does everything have to have a point? takes a breath, bows his head. 
 GREER (CONT'D) I'm sorry. I just want us to-- to connect again. To have a family, to have a life. (grabs her arms) We can't do it through this wall of plastic. MAGGIE pulls away, his BLOODY HANDS have left marks on her blouse. 
 I'm sorry, too. But this is my life. She looks at him sadly and returns to her guests. After a beat, Greer heads out the door. 
 Is that you, Greer? 
 In the flesh. He takes in the damage to the lobby, the police tape, the attacker's chalk silhouette. 
 You missed all the excitement. 
 Saw it on TV. 
 Says here you're on suspension. 
 Mm. Just cleaning out my desk. 
 
 Nice of you to notice. You remember where the rest rooms are? 
 They mostly use 'em for storage. Think the one on four still works. Greer nods and continues in. 
 Got your message. 
 Hope I didn't wake you. 
 After what happened here today I couldn't sleep. 
 You tell anyone I was going out to the rez? Canter, for example? 
 
 (TAKEN ABACK) No. Of course not. Greer studies her a beat, decides she's sincere. A sigh. Peters sits on his desk, studies him. 
 PETERS (CONT'D) You look terrible. 
 Not half as bad as I feel. Greer refills his coffee cup with Scotch, holds the bottle out to her questioningly. 
 No thanks. 
 Come on. Just pretend to get drunk with me. Peters shakes her head with a smile. Greer shrugs, takes a long drink, sighs and rubs his sore neck. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Feel like I've been asleep for years-- now I wake up an old man. Rip Van Frigging Winkle... Peters moves behind him, begins rubbing his shoulders, a massage. 
 GREER (CONT'D) What are you doing? 
 You look like you need it. 
 I'm not sure how kosher this is... 
 Relax. It's not me, it's not a woman touching you-- it's just a machine. 
 Does feel good... better than a stim chair. He allows himself to enjoy it for a moment, bows his head. 
 GREER (CONT'D) You ever feel like it's... over? 
 What. 
 Us. People. The stuff that used to make the world make sense. That made us... human. I don't know, morality, love. Whatever. 
 (BEAT) Yeah, yeah, they were probably saying that back in ancient Rome. 
 We always think technology's going to improve our lives, but... 
 What lives? A beat, sits up and pulls away from her touch. He holds up a hand and lets it fall. 
 GREER (CONT'D) This has become obsolete. Someday soon, we'll all just be brains in jars. 
 Maybe not. I have a feeling people are going to come to their senses eventually. 
 (shaking his head) You can't unring a bell. (turns toward her) Thought you were the one all into the brave new world. PETERS is staring at her own plastic hand. She looks up at Greer, changes the subject. 
 I found out about Strickland. She gestures to the boxes of documents. 
 PETERS (CONT'D) All the chaos, I was able to waltz right into the records department. 
 PETERS (CONT'D) The case files were removed, but there was a paper trail from payroll... Strickland was an informant. 
 
 Wasn't in the paperwork. But he must've been selling intel on the Prophet. Greer has risen, moving restlessly around the room. 
 So the Prophet has him killed. And we have to assume he now has the power to kill anyone he wants... 
 - 
 Where'd you get this photo? GREER sits opposite COLONEL at the man's desk, a FLAG and other MILITARY MEMORABILIA on display. Greer eyes the colonel, knows something's up. 
 It's from my memory. Damn thing put me in the hospital. 
 Wish I could help. 
 Killed a couple of cops as well. We believe this weapon-- the one that doesn't exist-- is in the hands of the Human Coalition. Brandon is finally losing his composure. 
 If this is true... we're going to have to do everything in our-power to recover it. Do you have any idea how serious this is? 
 I was hoping you'd tell me. BRANDON looks conflicted, finally opens up. 
 This is absolutely off the record. (off Greer's nod) It's called an Overload Device, or O.D. They're brand new, only a handful exist. But I checked, ran every serial number-- all accounted for. 
 Not this one. Maybe it never got to you guys in the first place. Who makes them? 
 It's a DARPA design, subcontracted to Pierson Defense. The idea was to create a non-lethal weapon that could disable every surrie in the field. You beam a software virus straight to the CPU. The fail-safes kick in and the operators are cut off. Circuits all melt down in seconds, you're left with a field full of scrap. 
 You win the battle with one shot. 
 (BEAT) Let me guess. You found a way around the fail-safes. 
 
 (GRIM NOD) Just a few lines of code, the connection stays open. We tried it on soldier volunteers... once. The virus caused every neuron to fire at the same time. Melted their brains. 
 So it's an assassination tool. 
 At the flick of a switch. 
 She wanted blue eyes the size of golf balls, bee-sting lips and a tiny ski-jump nose... 
 Boop-oop-a-doop. 
 Exactly. Nearby, MAGGIE works on a brown-skinned HAND. She stares through a mounted MAGNIFYING LOUPE, embedding tiny JEWELS in the SKIN of the fingers. She uses TWEEZERS and a tiny BLOWTORCH. After a moment, we realize the HAND has been disconnected from the body, mounted on a brace. 
 You talked her down, I hope. 
 Yes, thank God, we're doing a modified Audrey Hepburn. MAGGIE glances over at Bridget's work admiringly. 
 I'd love you to raise my cheekbones a half-inch, but Tom would go ballistic. THE DOOR CHIMES, Bridget looks up. 
 Speaking of the ball and chain... As GREER approaches, a few of the BEAUTY ENGINEERS glance up, then return to their business. 
 BRIDGET (CONT'D) Hiya, Tom. 
 I didn't hear you come home last night. 
 Worked late. I'd really like to sit down and talk with you. 
 I can take a break-- 
 No, Maggie, face to face. The two of us, for real. BRIDGET is getting uncomfortable. 
 These smile muscles need to set. She exits with a look at Maggie. Maggie stops working and turns to Greer, speaks passionately. 
 Tom, don't you get it? That body in our apartment-- the one you call real--- it isn't me. I'm right here. 
 Honey, if you're worried about the way you look-- it doesn't matter, it never did-- 
 Exactly! What matters is who I choose to be. As the conversation gets more heated, co-workers pointedly turn away, while eavesdropping. 
 I married a person, you're choosing to be a thing. 
 GREER (CONT'D) And I'm so sick of being surrounded by things-- young, beautiful things. 
 Well that's your problem, isn't it. if you can be young and beautiful and feel good all the time-- why would anyone choose anything else? 
 Because it's bullshit. Because we're human, like it or not. 
 Jesus, Tom. You sound like a Dread. Maggie turns back to what she was doing. Greer has trouble swallowing his anger. 
 I may just have to kick down your bedroom door. 
 (not looking up) I'd never forgive you. 
 Then maybe I should just move out. 
 Do what you want... 
 
 (A) That's a commercial. Greer turns and exits. Maggie glances after him with a mixture of anger and regret, then returns to her work. 
 What you working on? 
 Just checking e-mail. 
 I think you hide things from me. 
 Don't be ridiculous. (takes a sip, winces) This stuff is awful. He'scalling up a new file-- ON SCREEN - the name "LIONEL CANTER" followed by the words "CLASSIFIED - SCAN REQUIRED." A moment later, we see'S IMAGE, a LIGHT FLICKERS from the webcam on the MONITOR FRAME. Then the words "UNAUTHORIZED USER." 
 What does AOS stand for? I keep coming across it on these invoices. "Advance On Salary?" Greer thinks- a moment of revelation. He moves to look over Peters' shoulder. 
 What do you suppose VSI has against Canter? 
 Against him? He's one of them. 
 (shakes his head) He dies, they still have to pay his estate. 
 Wait a minute. You think VSI hired Strickland to kill Canter? 
 There was a middleman. As he moves for the door, he points at her paperwork. 
 GREER (CONT'D) To authorize informant payments, agent in charge has to initial... As he exits, Peters looks back down at the documents. The scrawled initials "AOS" on an INVOICE. 
 - Hey, Tom. Thought you were on leave. 
 Just cleaning out my desk. A moment later, STONE pokes his head out. 
 Greer! You've been cleaning out your desk for two days. You should be home recuperating. 
 Just about done, sir. Greer starts to move away, turns back. 
 GREER (CONT'D) I almost forgot. Victor Welch sends his regards. Stone shakes his head, feigning incomprehension: 
 I'm sorry? 
 Guy at VSI. You looking forward to moving to the private sector--? Nakata is listening curiously. Stone angrily gestures for Greer to come into his office, he doesn't want to have this conversation in public. Greer keeps speaking as he heads inside. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Will you finish out the year? We're sure gonna miss you around here... STONE SLAMS the door. 
 I know it's hard to resist, better hours, better pay-- 
 Welch told you about this? 
 (beat, grins) No. I was just fishing. 
 You've suffered brain damage, Greer. Let's hope it isn't permanent. 
 
 (GRIN FADING) All surveillance on the Prophet goes through this office. Jack Strickland was one of your stoolies. Why the hell didn't you say something? STONE just stares at him, narrowing his eyes. 
 GREER (CONT'D) Two cops died. You knew he had the 
 I have no idea what you're talking 
 --because you gave it to him. VSI makes them-- they hand one to you-- and you chose the trigger man. Your own little black op. If anyone looks, they blame the Dreads. But Strickland didn't follow the plan, did he? He didn't give you back the 0. D. like he was supposed to. 
 Are you done with this paranoid fantasy--? 
 Not quite. What I can't figure out is why. Why kill Canter? STONE stares at Greer, angry and defiant. He moves to his desk, types into his COMPUTER. Greer approaches slowly. 
 I'm issuing orders for your detention. Your mind isn't right, you've become a threat to national security. 
 STONE (FILTER) This is Stone! Nakata looks toward the office, starting to rise. 
 What do you need, sir? 
 Sonofabitch Greer disabled my surrie, stop him! 
 Just meet me in the garage-- leave the trunk open! As he rounds a corner, he comes face to face with-- --a pair of AGENTS, each carrying a HANDGUN. They approach from below. 
 #1 Tom, we don't want to hurt you. Greer nods and raises his hands, resigned-- he still clutches the papers. As Agent #1 nears, Greer suddenly-- --PLANTS a FOOT in the man's chest, sending him crashing into #2. Both men topple down the stairs, FIRE their guns wildly. Greer has also lost his balance and dropped some papers, which he has to scoop up as he claws for the. doorway and dashes through. 
 They're looking for Tom Greer. You seen him? She shakes her head, he presses a button to open the gate and waves her through. 
 Ever hear of the Human Defense League? 
 Sure, the extremist wing of the anti-surrogate movement. 
 According to this, their number one supporter is Lionel Canter. 
 What? The father of surrogacy? Impossible. 
 Says he's funneled billions into their organization. Not to mention direct support for the man who calls himself the Prophet. Canter's bought him land, lawyers... and enough weapons to start a war. 
 We all know what we're looking for! Remember these are biologicals, do not fire unless absolutely necessary! 
 Swiss accounts, anonymous wire transfers, unattributed testimony-- this isn't proof. WIDER - GREER lies in his clothes on the bed, bone tired, a flat-screen TV plays silently. 
 Not enough for a courtroom. But VSI knew that if Lionel Canter suffered a mysterious brain hemmorhage, the powers that be wouldn't be terribly upset. 
 He's not some kind of monster, you know. Canter's initial research was in prosthetics-- for amputees, quadriplegics... people with degenerative diseases. Maybe he feels his technology's been perverted. Maybe it has. GREER studies her with interest, her tone is strangely passionate. 
 I had no idea you were such a humanist. PETERS looks away-- then reacts to something on TV, grabs a remote and turns UP THE VOLUME. ON TV SCREEN - HAND-HELD footage as NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS move across the Dread Reservation No Man's Land, using TASER WANDS to subdue resisting DREADS, frisking them and rifling through possessions as they upend dwellings. 
 --units of the Maryland National Guard moved into the East Baltimore Human Reservation this morning, in a search for contraband weapons... GREER knows what this is about. 
 Colonel Brandon didn't waste any time. 
 They're looking for the 0. D. 
 The what? 
 
 (A) Isn't that what you called it? What does it stand for again? 
 Overload Device. She nods and turns nonchalantly back to the paperwork. As she does so, cocks his head and studies her. Protecting Brand's confidence, he never told her what the device was called. 
 So what do we do about Stone? 
 I call and tell him I'll take early retirement with full pension benefits. In return for keeping his little secret. 
 That isn't funny. 
 I'm not laughing. 
 
 (RISES) I don't believe you-- they killed Canter's son, a college kid, his whole life ahead of him! Don't we owe him something? She's genuinely upset. Greer won't meet her eye. 
 Can't bring him back. 
 
 (looks at her) Maybe he's got it coming. 
 
 (BETRAYED) I thought you were a cop. I thought you were a human being. PETERS marches out of there and slams the door on the way out. GREER waits a few moments, his mind racing-- then he moves for the door himself. 
. 
 Our nearest rental office is just outside Denver, the car and phone will be extra-- 
 I'm only gonna be there a couple hours. She leads him toward a curtained BOOTH, one of many here. RED GLOWS emanate from a few. 
 Do you want to customize--? 
 Generic's fine. She pulls back a CURTAIN to reveal a STIM-CHAIR and a 
. 
 Have no fear, the day of resurrection is at hand! A team of GUARDSMEN move to surround the Prophet, his BODYGUARDS struggle with them. 
 PROPHET (CONT'D) No! Do not resist! The oppressors shall soon fall, never to rise again... Ignoring him, some bodyguards pull HANDGUNS and FIRE on the SURROGATE GUARDSMEN, who immediately RETURN FIRE with automatic weapons. BUD and MILLER, the Prophet's right hand men, both take bullets and go down. THE PROPHET manages to escape out a side exit during this gunfire-- but a stray BULLET catches him in the back as he flees. 
 They've killed him! They've killed the Prophet! Other DREADS nearby react, the CRY spreading. WITH THE GUARDSMAN, examining the body. The Prophet is already rigid... and GREEN COOLANT is spreading from an exit wound in his chest. A guardsman rips open his shirt, pokes at the wound-- ELECTRONICS and TORN PLASTIC. THE GUARDSMAN's amazed, gets on his WALKIE-TALKIE. 
 Captain, you'd better come see this. Nearby Guardsmen react to the furious DREADS massing around them. A GRENADE LANDS nearby, #2 throws himself on it, his SURRIE BLOWS UP. GUNFIRE ERUPTS nearby, a MOLOTOV COCKTAIL sails through the air. 
 #3 We need to clear out! 
 GENERIC/GREER Peters! It's me, Tom Greer! He moves along the side of the house, peers in a window-- 
 GENERIC/GREER Peters! Are you here?! He tries a couple of DOORS, finds a LOCKED one, turns the latch-- steps leading to the basement. 
 GENERIC/GREER Oh my God, Jennifer-- He can see her neck is broken, he can't move her. Her eyes are closed, lips parched, hair matted with blood from a gash in her scalp. Generic/Greer leans close, takes her pulse. Suddenly her eyes open. She speaks with difficulty. 
 Who are you? 
 GENERIC/GREER Tom Greer. Your partner. 
- Greer...? 
 GENERIC/GREER There wasn't time, I rented a 
 
 How do I know--? Prove you're Greer. He's already dialing 9-1-1 on a CELLPHONE. 
 GENERIC/GREER You can't stand me, I'm old school, seat-of-the pants-- (connects, ON PHONE) 
 (TO PETERS) How long have you been down here? 
 Three days I think... 
 GENERIC/GREER 
 (INTO PHONE) Please, hurry... 
 (HANGS UP) They're on the way. Somebody's been using your surrogate. 
 What? 
 GENERIC/GREER You-- it's been showing up to work every day. 
 No, I-- the night your chopper went down... I woke up and somebody was here... I fought with him, but he was so strong-- 
 Peters is getting distraught. Generic/Greer gently her brow. 
 GENERIC/GREER Ssh, relax -- 
 He tried to bring me down here, we fell... 
 GENERIC/GREER (under his breath) Canter. 
 It has to be... oh God, I'm so cold... She clearly had been fighting to stay alive, just to tell someone what happened. 
 GENERIC/GREER Peters, hang on, please-- it won't be long... He rises, finds an old blanket to put around her. 
 Thirsty... 
 GENERIC/GREER They'll be here in just a minute... No response. He brushes her hair back from her face-- REAL PETERS' eyes are half-open, vacant. She's dead. GENERIC/GREER lets out an anguished CRY. 
 Who's on duty in surveillance--? Sanders, great, put me through-- He's pursued by the RENTAL AGENT. 
 Sir, sir, sir-- you haven't returned your unit-- Greer ignores the woman, he's out of there. She calls after him angrily. 
 It's an emergency, you need to connect me now! 
: 
 GREER (FILTER) Bobby, it's Greer, I need a remote shutdown. You'll have the surrie's digital address on file, Agent Jennifer Peters. CAMERA MOVES to reveal that PETERS (the surrie) is holding BOBBY at GUNPOINT, a grim expression on her face. She doesn't realize Bobby's on the phone. 
 Peters, have you gone insane? Put the gun away, what the hell are you trying to prove? PETERS ignores him, watching the TERMINAL SCREEN. WIDER now, we see that all the SURRIE WATCHERS have disconnected, they're stationary on their tracks. THE GLOWING MONITORS remain on, showing random scenes, unwatched. MOVEMENT at the elevated entrance-- --PETERS spins and FIRES HER HANDGUN in that direction. The intruder retreats. We now see a couple of SURRIES have already been dropped here, sprawled on the staircase leading down, bullets in their heads. PETERS spins on Bobby, who's WHISPERING frantically into 
: 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) She's into the entire surrie database, I dunno what she's-- Peters YANKS off Bobby's headset and throws it aside. 
 She'll only speak with you, sir. 
 Why the hell don't you just move in and take her down? 
 She's got a human hostage. Stone pauses, takes a breath. 
 That fat ass Sanders. He self-consciously rubs the back of his head, where we now see ELECTRICAL TAPE holding shut the damaged latch. 
 I'm sorry, you're not on his list. 
 I wouldn't be. I'm here to arrest him. ARMANDO moves closer at this. 
 I see... do you have a warrant? 
 Listen to me. Dr. Canter is committing a crime via surrogate-- right now. If you don't cooperate and let me up there, you become an accomplice. 
 Without a warrant, I'm afraid I can't help you. ARMANDO takes Greer by the arm in a painful grip. 
 You're gonna have to leave, sir. Armando escorts Greer none too gently to the door. 
 Ow! Easy, I'm only human. As Armando relaxes his grip a bit, flexes his left arm-- then gasps and clutches his chest, as if having a coronary. He stumbles, falls to his knees. Armando bends over him-- 
 Are you OK? Greer suddenly thrusts his hand beneath the man's jacket. Armando reacts, begins to struggle with Greer-- BANG BANG beneath his suitcoat. Armando's ARM SPASMS WILDLY. He takes a few steps back, SPARKS and HYDRAULIC FLUID coming from his chest. GREER is holding the man's GUN now, aimed at him. 
 ARMANDO (CONT'D) You asshole. I just made the last payment. GREER rises and hurries to the CLERK, points the gun at his head. 
 The elevator key! 
 I'm calling the police. The goes stock still, he's checked out-- he's obviously making the call from home. Greer shoves the inert body aside, it falls flat. He reaches for the elevator key, snatches it up when-- ARMANDO wraps his one good arm around Greer's throat from behind, choking him. They stagger backward, GREER aims the gun behind his head and FIRES, blowing a HOLE in Armando's forehead. GREEN COOLANT, FRIED ELECTRONICS fly from the exit wound. They topple to the ground together. GREER struggles from the frozen surrie's grip, clutching his ear, deafened by the gun's loud report. As Greer gets to his feet, the DOORMAN enters, takes in the tableau-- the gun-wielding man, the two surries on the ground-- and dashes outside again. GREER hurries for CANTER'S PRIVATE ELEVATOR. He turns the key-- no light, nothing. He makes a frustrated NOISE and dashes for a nearby door to the stairwell. 
 Peters! It's me, Andy Stone! Hands in the air, Stone moves down the stairs, stepping gingerly over the fallen surrogates. PETERS finishes CUFFING BOBBY'S WRISTS to a chair with plastic cuffs. She moves to get a look at Stone, across the expanse of glowing monitors. She's holstered her gun. 
 Who was it, Stone? Who was it at VSI that hired you to kill me? Stone blinks, trying to process this. 
 PETERS (CONT'D) Did you feel even a second of remorse, when you found out you'd murdered an innocent boy. He was eighteen! 
 I don't believe it... 
 Just tell me what I need to know. Stone considers this a bit, smiles. 
 We spend years trying to nail you for funding the Dreads-- and now you hand yourself over to us on a silver platter. Hijacking an agent, destroying federal property, creating a hostage situation... Peters pulls her gun and points it at BOBBY'S HEAD. He cowers in his chair. 
 STONE (CONT'D) I wouldn't add homicide to that list. As it is, you're going to prison for a very long time. He turns on his heel, begins walking back up the stairs for the door. PETERS lowers the gun, reaches into her pocket and pulls out the Q.D. WEAPON. 
 An eye for an eye... She points it at the back of Stone's head and-- --STONE's eyes go wide in agony-- and EXPLODE. He goes TUMBLING back down the stairs, SMOKE pouring from his head, BODY twitching crazily. 
 Damn it! He moves to a NARROWER STAIRCASE with a sign, "ROOF 
." 
. fiddles with the O.D.-- CLOSE - she slides back a panel, hits a couple of tiny SWITCHES-- the RED DIODES go to BLUE. points the device over the terminal, sweeps it in 
-- --the RIOT AGENTS all FREEZE'IN PLACE for a second-- and then drop at once. Unlike with Stone, there's no twitching, smoke or exploding eyeballs. The sudden silence is eerie. PETERS rises and moves to STONE, the grotesque, empty- eyed surrogate. Her expression is grim, but she's accomplished an important part of her mission. BOBBY looks around at the many fallen bodies. 
 Are they dead? 
 (re: the riot agents) They're fine. 
 - 
. Beside him is the BOY who picked Greer up in the limo. 
 You're insane. 
 Jennifer Peters. Is she-- 
 She's dead. 
 I had no intention of hurting her. I'm truly sorry-- 
 You bastard, she was my partner, I cared about her-- 
 Did you? You barely knew her. It was me you came to care about-- 
 Shut up! Greer clenches his fist, if the man wasn't in a wheelchair he would beat the hell out of him. Struggling to control himself, mind reeling: 
 GREER (CONT'D) How many people are you? You're really the Prophet? 
 I had to fight VSI any way I could. As canter speaks, his eyes flick toward the PROJECTOR'S 
-- --the image of the O.D. DEVICE UPLOADING SOFTWARE from PETERS' POV. Canter tries to block Greer's view-- 
 CANTER (CONT'D) There's nothing you can do-- GREER PUSHES CANTER'S WHEELCHAIR out of the way violently. Greer sits on the floor, leaning against the wall. He takes a breath and puts on the PROJECTOR HEADSET. He slips on the FINGERSLEEVE, presses his fingers together and-- 
 How do I shut it down? 
 
 Bobby, this is Agent Greer! ON THE CATWALK - a HUMAN agent, he's a SNIPER in black, creeps into position, readying his rifle./GREER helps BOBBY up, so that he can see the computer screen. Bobby remains cuffed. 
 
 PETERS/GREER 
 (DESPERATE) How?1 
 Hit control-escape, F12. As PETERS/GREER does so: 
 PETERS/GREER This can really send a virus to every surrie on the network? 
 Sure, but it has to disconnect the operators first. 
 PETERS/GREER (pauses, surprised) So people aren't in any danger... 
 Their surrogates are! Hurry up! 
 You understand... 
 Do it! BANG! A CLEAN HEADSHOT drops PETERS/GREER in her tracks, ELECTRONIC GOO sprays the COMPUTER SCREEN. spins in his chair. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) 
 You could have stopped it. Thank you... 
 Why...? 
 You know why. I won't be responsible for the death of humanity. I like the way you put it-- unringing a bell. GREER puts his head in his hands, realizing the enormity of what he's just done. 
 You created them. 
 I only sought to give people like me the chance to live normal lives. But my partners at VSI overrode me. They saw a much larger market-- surrogates for everyone. Healthy people. Children. A world without risk, without pain. Without feelings. Nothing at stake. Nothing to live for. Greer rises shakily. 
 What's going to happen? 
 The day of resurrection. As he speaks, he raises a small white capsule to his lips. 
 No--! Before Greer can stop him, CANTER BITES INTO IT and swallows. Greer tries to get the capsule from Canter's mouth-- but the man is DEAD within moments. 
 It's OK, sir, you're alright, it's 
 The massive surrogate shutdown appears to be nationwide... 
 Rioters presumed to be members of the Human Coalition seem to be making coordinated attacks on 
 Citizens are asked to remain in their homes... 
 Maggie--? He KNOCKS gently, then tries the door-- it isn't locked. 
 Maggie, it's me. She pulls away from his touch at first, struggles. 
 No! Please no, don't look at me... Greer pulls away the covers to reveal the REAL. She's pale, emaciated and malnourished, tears running down her face. She shrinks away from him. 
 MAGGIE (CONT'D) No Tom, I don't want you to... It doesn't matter to Greer-- he takes her in his arms and holds her close. 
 It's OK, it's OK... 
 No it's not... 
 
