 A "race war" has erupted at one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious institutions. 
 (O.S.) Outrage over an "African American Themed" party organized by predominately white students of Manchester University has resulted in rioting and property damages. 
 ANCHOR (O.S.) (CONT'D) Guests were invited to "liberate their inner Negro, fry up chicken, enjoy a sugar water concoction known as Purple drank and wear oversized Barack Obama T-shirts." 
 ANCHOR (CONT'D) Officials claim an investigation is underway to find those responsible for the event and subsequent riot. 
 ANCHOR (CONT'D) In an effort to address diversity issues, the school appointed African American scholar Dr. Walter Fairbanks as Dean of Students. 
 ANCHOR (CONT'D) Last year the Dean's office celebrated slight gains in diverse applicants but with many now calling for Fairbanks' resignation, that may have been pre-mature. 
 ANCHOR (CONT'D) Up next, a cat that loves to water ski? That and more after the break. 
 How could this happen? 
 (V.O.) Dear White People. The minimum requirement of Black friends needed to not seem racist has just been raised to two. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Sorry, but your weed man Tyrone does not count. 
 (knocking) Kurt! You home? 
 Hey boyssss, you've reached Lionel Higginsss, the only bitch on campussss who'll give you a dickssscount. That's right hunty, the bigger the dick the less you'll have to pay me to ssssuck it. 
 Kurt. It's Lionel. I'm locked out. 
 (O.S.) Dear White People, apparently Morgan Freeman in "Deep Impact" wasn't enough. Despite two terms Obama could cure Cancer and somewhere White folks will be embroiled in protest. And he's only half Black. 
 Talk to me. 
 What would you say if someone started a Dear Black People? 
 (recognizing the voice) No need. Mass media from Fox News to reality tv on VH1 makes it clear what white people think of us. 
 (V.O.) I'm fucking pissed... 5. 
 COCO (YOUTUBE) ...I am! The whole point of randomized housing is to mix shit up. I'm out here trying to find the Olivier to my Halle Berry, and they've got me looking like an extra on a Different World... 
 You call your Youtube show "Doing Time at an Ivy League?" 
 In my second year of a four year sentence. Wanted to go to New York. 
 Yeah? And do what? 
 Things my mama taught me not to. You know get in a lot of trouble and become famous for it. But alas I didn't get into Tisch... 
 Armstrong / Parker? That your rooming assignment? 
 Traditionally it's where the hopelessly Afrocentric gather to process their guilt over not going to an HBCU. (off Helmut's look) Where the Negros be at. 
 That's not where you want to be? 6. 
 Bechet House is more my style. 
 With the rich white kids. 
 Excuse me? 
 What part of Chicago you from? 
 Hyde Park. 
 What street? 
 Seventy Eighth and -- 
 -- Seventy Eighth is Southside sweetheart. And you know what they say. You can take the girl out the hood but -- 
 -- Ain't nothing hood about me. 
 Thanks so much for coming in. 
 So what's this show about anyway? 
 Here's the way reality works sweetheart, I'm the producer. I ask the questions. Be in touch. 
 (O.S.) Dear White People I am here to burst your post-racial little bubble. (MORE) 7. 
 SAM (O.S.) (CONT'D) Yes Oprah may have her own network, but Ann Coulter is still writing best sellers, Black kids are still getting shot for wearing hoodies, and even here the few vestiges of Black culture are under attack by conservative groups, trustees and yes our very own President Fletcher. 
 This is the school radio? 
 (O.S.) Dear White People, thanks to the new process of randomizing housing assignments for Sophomores, some of you may be jarred by an assignment to Armstrong/Parker house. 
 Someone turn that trash off. 
 TROY (CONT'D) Newbies right? 
 TROY (CONT'D) Welcome to Armstrong / Parker, home of the dopest dining hall in all of Manchester. I'm Troy, Head of House. 
 What's up my brother? 8. 
 (O.S.) When encountering a Black person try and stay calm. Don't say things like "what's up" and "my brotha" That's not how you normally talk. 
 Ya'll take care. Nice Jordan's bro. 
 Your hair is so cute B. T. Dubs. 
 You're so cute. 
 Is it weaved? 
 SOFIA (CONT'D) I saw "Good Hair" in Afro studies. 
 (moving on) Hey what house did you get? 
 Huh? Oh Bechet bitch. 
 Of course. The mere thought of a Fletcher anywhere else... 
 Easy, it was the luck of the draw. Daddy had nothing to do with it. 
 SOFIA (CONT'D) And honestly, if I had to pick anywhere to be it'd be here. 
 I'm down to switch if you are. You get your Denzel. I get my Gosling. 9. 
 Oh I got mines. Want to meet him? 
 Cute... (off Sofia's jealous glance) ...for a Black boy. 
 Hey boo. This is my friend Coco. She's new to the house. 
 Hey I'm Troy. Welcome to Armstrong / Parker, home of the dopest -- 
 -- Are we on duty? 
 Head of House is always on duty. 
 Nice to meet you. I should get settled. Thanks Sof! 
 Think I got time for a quick cut? 
 You got it cut last week. 
 It's a Black thing babe. 
 Since when is OCD a Black thang? 
 Don't say "thang" like that. 
 Besides you've got a shift at the Politicos booth, then a shift at Orientation, then your advisor -- 10. 
 -- I'll just wear a hat. 
 Then a movie maybe? Just us? 
 Election night. Babe, come on. 
 TROY (CONT'D) Yo, Kurt my man. 
 Sis. 
 Is she kidding with this? 
 You don't have to run again. Just because it's her doesn't mean -- 
 -- I can't let Sam and her wannabe Black Panthers take the House. The House needs me. This is who I am. 
 It's who he wants you to be. 
 Oh so you pick up a Psych class you think you Freud or something? Huh? 
 A Freud reference. Sophisticated. 11. 
 (seducing) Fine Beck, Jung, Maslow... 
 (O.S.) Dear White People, this just in. Dating a Black person to piss off your parents is a form of racism. 
 Yo Troy I forget. Is your major in shucking or was it jiving? 
 My major's in Jive. Minoring in Shuck. You're still majoring in trying to fuck my left overs right? 
 You need a shower. 
 You went from ODB to Trey Songz... 
 Artie, you know your success ratio with the ladies went up like thirty percent after I started edging you up dog, come on. You went from ODB to Trey Songz! 12. 
 That's his platform? Haircuts? 
 Oofta is as Oofta does. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Just because we're colored don't mean we run on colored people time. 
 Boycotting hot combs don't make you an expert on "colored people" boo. 
 No but seriously, I care about you guys. I care about this house. We had a great year last year and if it ain't broke... 
 Just pretend like you're in the booth. Just you and the mic. 
 Hate this shit. 
 You really think you can take this from me? 
 Troy we live in a world where there's a Big Momma's House 3. I don't have a chance in hell. Thank God. 13. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Troy my brother, it's broke. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Troy's a legacy kid. And yet it's under his watch that Armstrong / Parker, the bastion of Black culture here was gutted. By the Randomization of Housing Act. Second years of color no longer have a say in where they go. The culture that's been fostered in this house for two decades will be wiped out in two years. 
 SAM (CONT'D) This wasn't motivated by a desire to mix things up. Bring about racial and socioeconomic harmony. No, the Black kids are sitting together in the proverbial cafeteria and they must be up to no good. 
 SAM (CONT'D) We sit together to protect ourselves. Over a century of houses grouped by sports affiliations, political leanings, majors, you name it. Black folks get their own house, suddenly we got a problem? 
 SAM (CONT'D) This Act doesn't affect the other houses like it does ours. There are plenty of trustees, former coaches, and presidents watching out for the others. All we have is a Dean who'd rather please his massa -- 
 -- Yo that's enough of that Sam -- 14. 
 -- then stand up for his own. Look, I know ya'll ain't voting for me. Ya'll ain't ready and I didn't come here for that. The Black Student Union and I have brought a petition to repeal the Randomization of Housing Act. I plan on bringing it to the President and together we can bring Black back to Manchester. It'll be by the door. 
 I assume everyone has the app I created by now? 
 (aside) It's a child's app... 
 Good. Voting may commence. 
 MARTIN (CONT'D) Okay. Looks like we've got ourselves a winner. (devastated) Sam White? 
 TROY & SAM Oh shit. 
 So that's what you're looking for? 
 I'm looking for good TV sister. 
 I think I'd be good TV. 
 You're at a great school, getting a great education. Be good at that. 
 I am. And when I graduate early with an Economics degree from Manchester it will be the crowning achievement of my Black middle class parents' ambitions. 
 Conflict is a commodity in my industry. Sam's got it. Do you? 
 So you want me to start a fight. 
 (exactly) I don't want you to do anything you wouldn't otherwise do. 
 ...bigger the dick the less you'll have to pay me to ssssuck it. 
 Most everything's locked up, but we'll find another residence to move you to. Third time's a charm. (off Lionel's sigh) What about Armstrong / Parker? 16. 
 I don't know... 
 I might have an opening. Maybe it'd be good to be around...you know. 
 Dean. The worst thing about high school, and believe me it was a long list, were the Black kids. 
 Maybe it's in your head. Sure, sometimes our folks can be intolerant around people like you. Homo -- 
 -- I don't believe in labels. 
 You like jazz Lionel? Manchester's like jazz you know. 
 This is a research school. 
 And jazz is tension. The interplay of improvised solos all creating one song. Your problem is you've got no instrument. No major, no affiliations, no solo son. 
 I submit articles to the Independent Observer. 
 No one reads the Independent Observer, my point is are you playing swing or bebop? 
 You're mixing metaphors. 17. 
 Are you a sax or are you a trumpet? 
 I hate jazz. 
 I'll do what I can. Not a word of this in the Observer okay? 
 What's it matter? No one reads it. 
 Lionel right? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) George. We had Civ last semester? How you doing? 
 Grood...Gate...I'm ah.. 
 Fan of your stuff. In the Observer? 
 No one reads the Observer. 
 You seen this? 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) The residents of Armstrong / Parker just made her head of house. Am I crazy or is there a there there? 
 What made you come over here? 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) I mean I'm glad you came -- 
 -- My staff? God bless them. They're whiter than Michael Jackson's kids. We're fucked if anyone of them writes this story and I will not let the transfers at the Gazette do it first. 
 The oldest one has his face. 
 You're in the Black Student Union. You probably know Sam. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) You come up with a good angle? I want it in the Bugle. 
 (aside) Trumpet... 
 Bugle. Focus. The only paper on campus with a national subscription base and an Advisor from the New York Times? Only so many ways a person can distinguish themselves at a place like this Lionel. You're good. You belong with us. 
 Get it yet? 
 TROY (CONT'D) Good. You've now got the shared calendar, contacts, and official email. 
 TROY (CONT'D) Oh and before I forget. 
 Event requests for the year? 
 Just this month. They need your approval. Also don't forget to pick your office hours. At least 20 per week. 
 That's absurd. 
 You're in charge of a hundred residents now. And they need time to complain to your face. About noise. Leaky pipes. Gluten free options in the cafeteria. Etcetera. 
 Troy. I didn't think I was going to win. 
 And by the way petitioning the President on the Randomization of Housing Act isn't gonna do shit. None of the other houses are concerned. 20. 
 Because they all have a legacy of rich and powerful allies on the board who will make sure that "random" works out to their advantage. 
 And you think a petition is going to change that? 
 (V.O.) The Armstrong / Parker dining hall is the epicenter of Black culture as it stands at Manchester. Only here can you commiserate, celebrate and discuss everything from Kanye West lyrics to theoretical relativism all in one sitting. Not to mention find someone who can actually do your hair. 
 "We wuz robbed." That election was suspect man. 
 You call me the minute there's an update. Love you too mom. 
 There is one other sister in my Relativity class, I'll be damned if our professor doesn't call me Laretta every God damn time. 
 We all look the same. 
 Programming professor gets me and Martin here mixed up constantly. 
 You should be so lucky. 
 Cute. You get that at Toys R Us? 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) You still using your ID number? 
 I always forget passwords. 
 You are begging to get hacked. 
 Good thing the one evil techno- genius thinking like that is on my side. 
 SAM (CONT'D) So this is what the revolution looks like? Office hours and paperwork. 
 Winning was a happy accident. We want the reform repealed right? 
 Means to an end, sister. 22. 
 The talented tenth always has to bust its ass a little bit harder, but I don't see the benefit in blaming white folks for everything. 
 Who's blaming? 
 I don't see the issue. I never had one. Never ran into any lynch mobs. 
 Lynch mob is still there. Just re- branded itself. 
 As what pray tell? 
 The Republican party. 
 Want to know how this world sees you? Go to a Young Republican's meeting and bring up Welfare. 
 Or Immigration. 
 (aside) Or gay equality. 
 Bullshit. 
 I agree. Got something to add? 
 The biggest athletes, movie stars, hell your president is Black. (MORE) 23. 
 KURT (CONT'D) Sometimes I think the hardest thing to be in the American work force right now is an educated white guy. 
 You're not serious. 
 You guys still got affirmative action, you're set. 
 This shit. 
 What are you doing in here? 
 Obama. Leader of the free world got into Harvard on affirmative action. Know who's not president right now? The guy that didn't get in. 
 On behalf of the colored folks in the room, let me apologize for all the better qualified white students whose place we're taking up. 
 SAM (CONT'D) You get lost? Bechet is that way. 
 Yeah but what other dining hall gives you chicken and waffles? Dear White People right? Funny stuff. How haven't we staffed you yet? 
 On Pastiche? Your uninspired humor magazine? 
 We're a lot more than a magazine sweetie. SNL staff is basically half Lampoon, half Pastiche. Just like the network comedies. 
 What gives you Clubhouse kids the right to come to our Dining Hall? 
 SAM (CONT'D) You don't live here. 
 Sam? What are you doing? 
 You can't eat here. 
 Chill Sam damn. Let the man-- 
 KURT & SAM -- I got this. 
 Who are you to put me out? 
 (realizing) I'm the Head of this house. And I'm doing things my way. 
 You got any idea who you're -- 
 -- Yeah, I know who your daddy is. The same one who's been pushing to break up this House for a decade. What's wrong? Is he scared letting the Negroes gather in groups might start a rebellion on the plantation? You tell him from me...he should be. 
 Bad move. 25. 
 You too. 
 Me? 
 Is this your house? 
 (O.S.) Dear White People, stop dancing. 
 The fuck? 
 COCO (CONT'D) Muffins. I hate to do it, but Imma have to get real Black with you. (comes to mind) So the other day, a girl had the nerve to fix her mouth and ask me if my hair was weaved. (after a moment) Weaved. Weaved bitch? (MORE) 26. 
 COCO (CONT'D) First of all if you're going to fix your mouth to ask me something like that, say it right please? It's weave. Noun. Present tense. Second of all don't assume just because you see a sister with some hair it's a weave. Is it? Clearly. If a bitch could grow straight Indian hair directly out her own head I wouldn't have just overdrafted my account paying for this shit but that ain't your business. Are those your lips sweetie? Sweet heart is that really your skin? These white girls and these tans I swear to God, they're starting to look darker than me. 
 COCO (CONT'D) Dear White People. What do I think about it? 
 Okay. Does anyone have any comments for Sam's "Rebirth of a Nation?" 
 I dig the "silent movie" thing, but it's a little self-congratulatory. Light on story and frankly thematically dubious. 
 Okay. Anybody else? 
 What? 
 Sam? 
 Before you say anything might I remind you that I sat through Birth of A Nation, Gone With The Wind, and Tarantino week without protest. 
 And might I remind you that I read all fifteen pages of your unsolicited essay on why Gremlins is actually about suburban white fear of Black culture. 
 The Gremlins are loud, talk in slang, are addicted to fried chicken and freak out when you get their hair wet. 28. 
 My only problem with your movie is that it was late. The silent projects were last semester Sam. You were supposed to have emailed your sound treatment over Summer. 
 I've been getting footage. 
 This is your senior thesis Sam, where the hell is your head at? 
 I've got Radio, BSU, this Head of House thing -- 
 -- Do you want this? Cause if not, don't waste my time here -- 
 -- Look this thing might as well be my right hand Professor. I was busy this summer that's all. 
 With everything but your major? While your peers are taking internships, making short films... 
 My dad. He's sick. Had to go home. 
 If you need some time off, take it. But if you want to make it to next semester -- 
 -- I do -- 
 -- Pull it together. This is Manchester. 
 Thematically dubious? 
 Well what was that supposed to be about exactly? 
 You're thematically dubious! 
 SAM (CONT'D) Since when do TA's give critiques? 
 You invoke Minstrelsy for shock value, but to what end? 
 To invoke the same feeling I get when I turn on the TV and see some so-called reality star shuck and jive for ratings egged on by no doubt white producers. Or the sassy Black secretary with no backstory or character development aside from their skin color. 
 So it's a tit for tat?                      * 
                               * You're honestly saying that art             * can't be reactionary?                       * 
                              * You're reacting to a work made              * almost a hundred years ago.                 * 
                               * Yes because fear of Black men being         * involved in the United States               * Government is a completely                  * antiquated concept. No social               * relevance whatsoever today.                 * 
                              * Frankly I just think sometimes its          * better to hold a mirror up to your          * audience than to drop an                    * ideological piano over their head.          * 30. 
                                          * Frankly I just think works that                        * deal with the African Diaspora                         * through a post-modern lens are                         * outright rejected unless they're                       * handled by a white artist.                             * 
                                         * African Diaspora? Really?                              * 
 Blackface is alive and well in our culture. Who primarily buys hip hop? Watches Housewives of Atlanta? The same homogenized images of Black people over and over again? White people Gabe. 
 Who goes to see Tyler Perry movies? 
 We're an underfed community. None of this changes the fact that the vibrancy, the complexity of Black culture has been distilled into commodities and marketing schemes to be bought and sold-- 
 --to the detriment of the so called "real thing." Got it. 
 I am indistinguishable from the so called "urban" images used to amuse and market to white America. 
 And the commodification of culture is uniquely oppressive to Black people? 31. 
 GABE (CONT'D) So when Kanye raps about Louis V and Rolexes and Classical Art, exactly what exploited pocket of Black America are those references being mined from? 
 On your knees. 
 What? You dream in "Cosby" again? 
 My hair was so straight. My sweater so big. I told you about that? 
 Hey so...this whole "Head of House" thing. Congrats? 
 Yeah, it's...it's. 
 Weird, right? Never took you as a student politician... 
 Yeah, well... 
 Sam? What are we doing? 
 Fucking. 
 (V.O.) Dear White People. Please stop touching my hair. 
 (V.O.) Does this look like a petting zoo to you? 
 Kurt it's three. 
 Y.O.L.O. my nigga! 
 We don't even have our new staff yet. Why are we planning this? 
 Everyone wants to be on our staff that's the easy part. 
 We're going to make staff bids on Game Night, and the RSVP's are through the roof for that. 
 Yeah but Halloween is our premiere party. The waitlist is already a hundred deep and it's going to take a lot to outdo this summer. 
 Cinco de Mayo was epic. 
: 
 How about the Young Republicans? 
 Too close to the Tea-Party. 
: 
 Yo we need an East vs West hip hop party. Get the honeys in here. 
 "The honeys?" You're from Vermont. 
 Guys what's the Pastiche motto? 
 "Sharpen thy sword." 34. 
 Our motto is a euphemism for masturbation? 
 It's a reminder that satire is the weapon of reason. So who on campus is being unreasonable? 
 Sounds like a reminder of how gay you are. 
 Was that even a reasonable attempt at a quip Mitch? 
 Hey Gordon, say reasonable again. 
 (O.S.) Dear White People, knowing Lil' Wayne lyrics no longer earns you an Honorary Black Card. It just reminds me how often you say the word "nigga" when no one Black is around as is required in reciting said lyrics. 
 The hell does Sam think she is? 
 Like Spike Lee and Oprah had a pissed off baby. 
 Could we? 
 How? 
 Hey Lionel. Talked to the Dean today. (MORE) 35. 
 KURT (CONT'D) We had a very enlightening conversation. I just want to say... I'm sorry about the voice message. 
 KURT (CONT'D) Do you accept? 
 Please put that away. 
 You got to talk to these people in a language they'll understand. 
 Pathetic. 
 (yelling) Wherever he ships you off to, be sure to pack a sense of humor with you, kay bro? 
 (V.O.) The Paper Bag Tests. 
 The Tip Test. You hit up Jelly's for a snack. Your waitress mistakes you for someone who looks like you (Black) who once ran up a thirty dollar bill and left a dollar tip. 36. 
 SAM (CONT'D) You watch all the other customers order before you do... 
 Pastrami sandwich on rye. 
 ...then proceed to wait no less than forty minutes for your food. 
 SAM (CONT'D) How do you tip? A... 
 Forty minutes? Man she's lucky I leave her forty cents. You do a good job, maybe you'll see a tip. 
 B... 
 Doris was tripping, but fifteen percent is the least I can do. 
 Or C... 
 I reject the stereotype that African American's don't tip. I'm leaving her twenty, no twenty five, just to prove I can! 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) C? 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) Nose-job? 
 (V.O.) Dear White People in a shocking reversal using the term "African American" is borderline racist now. 
 (O.S.) Turns out if you're too worried about Political Correctness to say "Black", odds are you secretly just want to call us niggers anyway and truth be told I'd rather you just be honest about it. 
 Free speech my ass. 
 Stalin quotes for two hundred? 
 You're joking about this? 
 I'm sorry, was I supposed to take "Free speech my ass" as a legitimate suggestion? 
 This is your office's issue Walter. Especially after that episode with Kurt in the dining hall. 
 Every race issue is my issue. 
 It's a student issue. You are the Dean of students aren't you? 
 How bad is this deficit of yours? 
 Worse. But let me tell you something. If this blows up any further? It's on you Walter. Racism is over in America. And if anyone's still dealing with it, it's the -- I don't know Mexicans probably. 
 President Fletcher. 
 Son, call me Herb. 
 President Fletcher tells me his son got his ass handed to him. 
 Sam's out of line. Kurt's alright. 
 But you're supposed to be better than alright. Since when do we lose elections Troy? 
 The Housing Act passing without a fight didn't help. 39. 
 What have I told you about excuses? 
 Pops my course load is full anyway. I'm head of Econ Board, I'm thinking about Pastiche. 
 Pastiche? On Kurt Fletcher's staff? 
 You know to round out the res? 
 I'll be God damned if twenty years from now you have to end up working for that dumb asses son. 
 (put in his place) Yes sir. 
 Fletcher and I graduated a year apart. He barely made it through. I graduated Summa cum Laude. Now look who's President and who's Dean. 
 What's the difference? 
 A couple hundred grand a year. Understand what I'm saying? Now what happened between you and Sam to make her come after you anyway? 
 Sofia. You remember Sofia? Daughter of the President. Psych major. "Has the world ahead of her Troy." 
 I don't like your tone boy. 
 Sorry sir. 
 So you lost the House. On to the school presidency then. 
 Someone like me? 
 
 Babe. Hat or no hat? 
 TROY (CONT'D) Are you wearing that? 
 I don't have to be. 
 SOFIA (CONT'D) Hey boo...why don't we put some of your new found free time to good use? It's been a while since... 
 What's with all this boo stuff? 
 ...since you fucked me with your big Black cock. 
 SOFIA (CONT'D) It used to turn you on when I talked like that. Is it me? 
 (yes) I love you. 
 Is it Sam? 
 Can we please just, get ready? 
 Why? I hate my brother's friends. 
 You're not going to go with me? 
 You'd go without me? 
 SOFIA (CONT'D) You're my guest! 
 You can hang out while I'm -- 
 -- Okay, what's with you and my brother? Are you in love with him? Is this like, some DL shit? 
 "DL shit!?" 
 I keeps it clean Ya know what I mean. I drinks my Vodka straight, like I'm a fiend. 
 Wait, quiet I want to hear this. 
 (O.S.) If I could grow straight Indian hair out my head -- 
 Ohmigod, this is going on Facebook. 
 Relax the Negro at the door is not here to rape you. 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) So this is what editors do? 
 We're taking a break, what are you doing here? 
 You wanted me to drop in and tell you how the story was coming? 
 Yeah like this week. It's Saturday night. You got nowhere else to be? 
 It was this or the new Madea movie. 43. 
 Dear God. Where does Madea go this time? Dialysis? 
 Man fuck Tyler Perry. 
 Like, can we have a movie with, you know characters in them? `Stead of stereotypes wrapped in Christian dogma? 
 Why is every educated person inherently evil? Why this Nigga gotta be in a mutha fucking dress all the mutha fucking time? 
 How come the only Black movies Hollywood wants to make are ones with mammies in fat suits or Black women in pain man? 
 Most people are here to see Fang 9. (after a beat) Kelly Rowland's in it? 
 How `bout you stop stereotyping yourself and put that shit out? This ain't "Friday." 
 Yo Sam. We got to talk about the protest. When are we are bringing the Housing fight to the prez? 
 The House voted down sponsoring the rally. 
 What do we need it sponsored for? 
 Demonstrations can get shut down if a House doesn't sponsor them. 
 Like the House you're head of? 
 Hey Sam, I read "Ebony and Ivy." What's with the Oofta, Nose-Jobs, One Hundred stuff? I miss something? 
 You want me to break it down? 45. 
 Yo my perfect Friday night is whiskey and my T-Bone Walker records, real talk. 
 Who the fuck is T-Bone Walker? 
 Only a few ways colored folks survive at a place like this. 
 Uh only a pioneer of electric and jump blues bro. Know your roots. 
 White folks always be on stuff like decades too late and act like they discovered some shit. 
 "Oofta" is the jazz age term for Bojangle types who Blacked it up for White audiences. 
 Don't sleep on T-Bone man. 
 Rock, Jazz, Blues - Nigga whatchu got on right now? 
 Public Enemy my Nig-- 
 --Yo watch that man. 
 You just called him -- 
 -- Ya'll get Country Clubs we get to say Nigga. 
 And golf? And all our girls? 
 Whatchu mean all your girls? 
 Dude, between OJ, Tiger, Wesley Snipes and uh, Troy over here... 
 Yo. It's a word for that. Reparations. 
 TROY (CONT'D) Forty white bitches and a mule. 
 An Oofta modulates his Blackness up or down depending on the crowd and what he wants from them. 
 Kurt? 
 What? 
 Kurt. 
 GORDON (CONT'D) Troy. You thinking about Pastiche? 
 That's the magazine right? 
 For starters. 
 What other "magazine" you know has a first look deal at NBC? The third biggest Youtube channel. Talk show. Platinum comedy record homie! 47. 
 Couldn't you see him on the talk show Kurt? 
 I fold. 
 Okay, and a nose-job is a wannabe? 
 Sort of. Nose-jobs smooth their Black edges and try to blend. 
 You seen this one? 
 SAM (YOUTUBE) Dear White People using Instagram. You have an iPhone and go on hikes. I get it. 
 Ugh. 
 Not a fan? 
 Sup ma? 
 Don't talk like that. 48. 
 Hey I know you... 
 COCO (YOUTUBE) Muffins. I hate to do it, but Imma have to get real Black with you. 
 A Nose-job's worst fear is that their "Blackness" might cause a fuss or draw undue attention so they apologize for it or use it to self deprecate. 
 Forty thousand views already? 
 Looks like someone submitted you to Buzzfeed. Taking off... 
 You wan' a drink a sun'in? 
 Let me guess you're from Ohio? 
 Vermont. 
 What do you have against Dear White People? 
 COCO (YOUTUBE) Dear White People. How do I feel about it? Well for one it's Blacker than thou propaganda from a bougie Lisa Bonet wannabe who smells like patchouli and frankly I can't believe we're letting Sam get away with it. 49. 
 Okay and One Hundred? 
 Keeping it One-Hundred! Being Black as hell just cause. 
 But what about just being you? 
 Like I said... 
 You don't mind do you? 
 (V.O.) There's only a few ways a person of a color can survive at a place like this... 
 Of course not. 
 Alright so then what? 
 So then Sam says "What, is your daddy scared the Negroes are gonna start a rebellion on the plantation?" 
 To Kurt Fletcher!? 
 Yeah. Yes. Yup. 50. 
 We've got a news item but there's something bigger here. It's a profile piece on Armstrong / Parker and Sam White's pseudo revolution. 
 What's the headline? 
 Outdated nationalist seeks purpose starts race war? 
 Beers in the corner. Bang out the news item tonight and we'll work on the profile piece for next week. 
 What are you doing? 
 All Bugle staffer must freestyle. It's law. 
 You want to be a staffer right? 
 (awkward) My name is Lionel Kind of like a lion King of the jungle Indigenous to Africa... 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) Sorry. 
 Yo man, you know I wasn't talking about Sof back there with whole forty bitches thing. I was just -- 
 -- trying to get on my staff? 
 I never really thought about -- 
 -- Bullshit. Game Night is where we make our bids for the new staff. It's why everyone's here. You were practically about to bust out a tap dance. 
 I'm a Poly Sci major man. I just came to hang out. 
 My staff likes you. A lot. 
 But you don't. 
 This thing with you and Sof... 
 I'm good to her. 
 Our dad's have been playing a game of chess off and on since 1972. 
 What and Sof is the White queen? 
 You're a pawn. And I think it's time you get off the board bro. 
 KURT (CONT'D) Here's the deal. Every year we throw a party. The point is to mock the self important and moronic entities of the campus. The way to get staffed is to write an invite for the party. (MORE) 52. 
 KURT (CONT'D) Our invites are legendary, we make Gawker, the Post, tons of blogs every year. If your invite is the one that goes out, you're guaranteed a spot on the staff. The runners up are voted on by the rest of us. 
 I just think having good hair and carrying on with a degree of sophistication doesn't make me a traitor to the race. 
 Want to know why they used to call me Black Mitch? 
 GORDON                           COCO Absolutely not.                 No one called you that. 
 
 Okay. And what's this year's theme? 
 Still working on that... 
 The party's a couple weeks away. 
 Yo Kurt. I want you to meet someone. 
 You guys got a party coming up? 
 Hey, about the rally. You could still get the permit anyway Sam and go against the board. Most people consider that political suicide though. 
 We got to rally Sam. Time is now. 
 Use your head Reggie. You think a rally is going to change things? 
 It'll do a hell of a lot more than a radio show or views on Youtube. 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) Look, we got power Sam and it's time we used it. We earned it. 
 We? I didn't see you running for shit Reggie. 
 Tired. 
 Don't "one word" me. 
 Why you got to snap at me all the time? I'm around you like twenty four seven. Like your lap dog. I don't even usually get down like that with no red bone chicks man. 54. 
 Don't call me that. 
 Come on, I thought your ass was Puerto Rican when I met you. 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) Oh so you can dish it out but you can't take it? 
 I'm taking my ass home. 
 Come on Sam. You know how I feel about you. 
 How am I supposed to know how you feel about me? 
 You know what? Forgive me if I see something in you. Something inspiring. Something folks like me can get behind. 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) Tell me you'll set up the rally. 
 I'll set up the rally. 
 Are we sure about this? 
 It's ironic. Bold. And don't tell me I'm the only one who thinks Sam White's little movement needs to get cut down to size. 55. 
 KURT (CONT'D) Looks like you got your Hip Hop party Mitch. 
 `Bout time. It's going to be huge man, fucking epic. 
 Boys, we've got a lot more mingling to do. We'll be in touch. And Troy? Get off the board bro. 
 Nice seeing you. 
 Where's Sofia? 
 I have no idea. 
 Trouble in paradise? 
 COCO (CONT'D) Figures. (off Troy's incredulousness) Nothing. I'm sure you've got something else fair and petite and...fair lined up for that drink. 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 It's fine. I'm not even really into Black dudes anyway. 
 I'll have you know I'm an equal opportunity employer, okay? 56. 
 And what kind of jobs are you hiring for mister? 
 Aren't you and Sofia -- 
 -- I'm an accessory to Sofia. Can't ever shake the feeling I'm an assignment for that Afro Studies Minor of hers. 
 COCO (CONT'D) I'm sure you have no idea what I mean. 
 She seems really cool. 
 Did we go too far? You're in Armstrong/Parker right? 
 No. Garmin. 
 Fancy. 
 George I'm not exactly down with Sam and I'm not in the BSU. I got kicked out of Armstrong / Parker same as Kurt. But I'm going to write a good story, okay? 
 I hope so. I want a Bugle on your chest by the end of the month. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Your fro's so gnarly. 
 I'm growing it out. 
 Night Lionel. 
 Party's not over. 
 I live here. 
 Sorry bro. Invitation only. 
 It's two in the morning. 
 Coco huh? 
 Colandrea doesn't exactly pass the resume test, you know? I mean couldn't you fucking die? My parents should've just named me Ghetto-ass-hoodrat-anisha. Do you...indulge? 
 It's ten am. 
 TROY (CONT'D) I don't mess with that stuff. 
 Sure about that? 
 Sure you don't like Black guys? 
 Girl like me is just a placeholder for ya'll at a place like this. 
 I'm not like that. 
 I don't think Sam would agree. 
 That was different. 
 No it wasn't. Poor thing, she was light skin-ded and everything. 
 Yo, it wasn't like that alright? 
 TROY (CONT'D) My pops. He wanted me with Fletcher's daughter. They've been in competition ever since they went here. Pops hates that Fletcher ended up President and he got stuck as the Dean. 
 So your upbringing may have actually fucked you up more than mine? That's hot. 
 COCO (CONT'D) The hell is the difference between a Dean and a President anyway? 
 Apparently four hundred years of unreconciled oppression. 
 He's not going to like you running with the Pastiche boys is he? 
 If I even get tapped. 
 You will. And you should do it. They all land somewhere big, some before they even graduate. I've seen you in front of a crowd Troy. I bet you could be famous. 
 That what you want? To be famous? 
 I want people to know my name. 
 Which one? 
 (reading) We want you. Come by Ellington tomorrow at eight. (to Troy) Anything? 
 COCO (CONT'D) You're going to have to stand up to him sooner or later Troy. 
 You said you loved me. 60. 
 I like you a lot. 
 What do you do in the bathroom? When you leave the shower running? Was it just to get away from me? 
 I smoke weed and write jokes. 
 The hell are you doing? 
 LIONEL & TROY This is my apartment. 
 The hell it is. 
 The Dean said it was the only opening. 
 Head of House doesn't share. 61. 
 But you're not Head of House. 
 Stay Black, my brother. 
 Sure thing? 
 Need your submission by Thursday. 
 You got it bro. 
 The fuck? 
 Yo! 
 Finally made it in. 62. 
 Been moved around a lot right? 
 You must have been terrified when you saw "Armstrong/Parker" written on your moving assignment. 
 I was just finishing up. 
 Do Black people scare you? 
 (realizing its true) No. 
 You're too scared to even ask anyone for a cut. 
 I'm growing it out. 
 No. I'm growing it out. You're fostering an ecosystem. 
 How come you don't come to BSU? 
 I listen to Mumford and Sons and watch Robert Altman movies. You honestly think I'm Black enough for the union? 
 Yo, I love Robert Altman. Mutha fucka goes in. 
 (after a beat) We're not all homophobes you know. Black folks? 
 I'm bumping Frank Ocean right now. I don't give a fuck. Imma still eat at Chik Fil A though. Them nuggets good as hell. 63. 
 I'm late for class. 
 You're the "Black voice" of the Bugle now. We're just trying to decide if you are friend or foe. 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) We got to protect our girl. 
 I'm not on staff. Not until I make good on my assignment, I'm just -- 
 -- Assignment? What's the story? 
 They want me to do a profile piece on Black culture at Manchester. 
 Of which you are so clearly an expert. 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) So what's harder man? Being Black enough for the Black kids or the white ones? 
 Being neither. 
 Sam! Really Sam? 
 Running late. 
 Forget your sign Dean? 
 Do you honestly think this is in the spirit of Armstrong / Parker house? 
 The role of the counter culture is to wake up the mainstream to -- 
 -- I've got furniture older than you. Counter culture? Is that what you think this is? That show of yours? 
 What about my show? 
 Your show is racist. 
 Black people can't be racist. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Prejudice? Yes. But not racist. Racism describes a system of disadvantage based on race. Black people can't be racist since they don't benefit from such a system. 
 Do you read the school papers? 
 Is the New York Times a school paper? 
 Your antics are making press Sam and press like this keeps men like President Fletcher up at night. 
 Warm milk? 
 He's building a file on you. 
 It's not my fault your son couldn't beat me in an election. 
 I'm sure it was hard growing up. Wondering which side you fit into. Feeling like you have to overcompensate perhaps? 
 If that's true, I'm not the only one Dean. 
. 66. 
 There you are! We supposed to start at noon. 
 I told you I had class. 
 Those are going up on Gillespie. Good right? 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) Yo. What's that? You're not getting cold feet are you? 
 No. I mean how long do I have to talk anyway? 
 You're kidding right? You're sort of the keynote. 
 Yeah but...you know I think the whole Malcolm X thing is your lane Reg. I'm just not -- 
 -- They came to hear you Sam. Grab a bullhorn. Turn it on. 
 What is all this? 
 (on phone) Hey. In the middle of-- -- Okay. Okay. Okay. 67. 
 Sam? 
 REGGIE (CONT'D) Sam! 
 Yo, what the hell Sam? 
 You want me to tell them to go? 
 You're so tough. 
 I will. 
 I want you to wait until they've gone and then head home. 
 I'm trying to be here for you. 
 Can you be somewhere else for me? 
 Sam! I know you're home. 68. 
 What do you see in him? 
 The only eligible single brother on campus. 
 Wow. Okay. 
 I get it. Your parents owned in Harlem or something? You watched "Do The Right Thing" in high school and you want to prove to the world you're down? 
 I want to be down? How long does it take to get your hair like that? 
 (O.S.) Sam. We want to talk. 
 Reggie I will call you later damn! (to Gabe) You don't know what you're talking about. Girls like me-- 
 --what? Have to pick a side? I'm sick of your tragic Mulatto bullshit Sam! 
 You can't say Mulatto. 
 Mulatto! Mulatto! Mulatto! 
 
 Window. Go out the window. 
 I'm sorry if I can't be your Nubian prince on my Black horse ready to take you back to fucking Zamunda! 69. 
 That's not a real African country. 
 Can I please get some credit for a solid "Coming to America" reference? 
 GABE (CONT'D) This isn't you Sam. 
 No? And who am I? 
 You're this...girl... 
 Perceptive. 
 Who...likes to argue with me about every fucking thing. And I hate it because we both know you're smarter than me. Your favorite director is Bergman, but you tell people its Spike Lee. You love bebop, but you've got a thing for Taylor Swift. I know because my Mac picks up your Mac's library. 
 And I was so careful... 
 You like to use phrases from the thirties and wear clothes from the fifties and hairstyles from the sixties. You like to watch me when you think I'm sleeping. And trace the outlines of my face. 
 GABE (CONT'D) You're more "Banksy" than "Barack" but you've been co-opted as some sort of revolutionary leader or something? But really you're an anarchist. A beautiful writer, artist, filmmaker, shit starter. And beautiful, in general. 70. 
 Yeah? Yeah? Yeah. It's okay. Get some sleep. 
 Everything okay? 
 (happy tears) His condition's stable. 
 Good. That's good Sam. 
 Gabe! 
 What!? 
 I'm sorry. 
 New videos are picking up steam. 
 Told you I was good TV. 
 The show I'm scouting for... It's called Black Face / White Place. It's reality. Like a "True Life." Each episode centers on a different one of "us" in a sea of "them." 71. 
 Interesting. 
 Interesting? You think they want interesting? Dignified stories of triumph and survival? (off Coco's naive shrug) They want the "authentic urban experience" which is basically network talk for bitching and weave snatching. I'm telling you this because the network is looking to take one of the subjects to series. I got one episode. One shot to find that subject. So if we do this... 
 ...we do it all the way. I'm guessing Sam turned you down. 
 I think so. She called me a Bojangling Oofta, whatever that means. Everything else she said would've been bleeped on tv. (off Coco's laugh) So look, forty thousand hits on Youtube is good. It's not great. 
 I'm about to get a whole lot more. 
 We don't have anyone like you on staff and you had a great idea. We brought you here to -- 
 -- I want to MC it. Your party. 
 We're here to tell you what we want. 
 You want me and in order to get me, you have to let me MC. (MORE) 72. 
 COCO (CONT'D) And I want to do a live video blog from my Youtube account. 
 They'd let you do that? 
 They got no choice. They need me -- 
 -- cause without me ya'll look like a bunch of privileged assholes. 
 We don't let people video blog our events... 
 ...You got a week to put this thing together boo boo. What's it going to be? 
 You look surprised. 
 It's just... 
 (V.O.) ...not everyone is as camera ready as you. 
 Martin, would you share with Troy what you shared with me? 
 The server that processes the voting results for House Elections has shut down the A.P. database. Saw it this morning. Apparently the intermediary program is on a refractile loop. 
 I'm a Poly Sci major man. 
 Sam currently has 445 votes. That's 200 more than she had last week during the actual election. 
 There's not even that many residents in Armstrong / Parker. 
 She cheated. Hacked the system. 
 I wouldn't even begin to know how to do something like that. 
 Is your little war really this important? 
 Had to have been Reggie. Dude's in my programing class. Good. Just forgot to turn his program off. 
 Wow. 
 You're the rightful Head of House. 
 (shit) So great. 
 Martin, let me talk to Troy for a bit. I appreciate this. 
 Your advisor tells me you're hanging on by a thread in you major. Perhaps it's time to reprioritize. 
 You're trying to frighten me, but I think you're the one who's scared. 75. 
 And I think you long for the days where Blacks were hanging from trees and denied actual rights. Then you'd actually have something to fight against. 
 You damn right it is. 
 We don't have an intolerance problem here. Except for the one I'm looking at. 
 You didn't tell me you and Sofia had a misunderstanding. 
 Who did? 
 Her father. She was very upset. (off Troy's silence) Troy. What sort of vision do you have for yourself? 76. 
 Get my degree. Then Law School and then -- 
 --And what's that got to do with partying with Kurt? With smoking weed and writing jokes? 
 (wanting it to be true) Dad no. I want what we always talked about. Maybe have my own firm someday? Run for office. Make a difference. Wife. Kids. I want all that. I really really do. 
 And the drugs? God damn it Troy I taught you better than this. I have been in academia a long time, I've seen a lot of things. The men who really run this world? You got no idea what they see when they see you. You are not going to be what they all think you are. You will not give them that satisfaction, you hear me? 
 Yes sir. 
 I know about the party. You picked a hell of a time. 
 What party -- 
 -- You're cancelling Kurt. End of story. 
 (O.S.) Lionel's story on the would-be protest outside of Gillespie is running tomorrow and I'm also having Lionel work on a profile piece of Armstrong/Parker like you suggested. Really break down what's going on. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Right. It's almost like they recycle so much from their past - Music, food, fashion, and now turbulence. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Thank you so much. Okay, take care. 
 Well? 
 That was our Times advisor. He said it's stories like these that get editors recommendation letters. 
 The Negro at the door didn't scare you this time. 
 Lionel please. You're only technically Black. G, going to French. You want me to hold your seat? 
 Thanks. 
 You need something? Saw your e- mail. 
 Yeah, I need someone to do the Donor's function on Saturday. Small dinner for the school's big givers. Administration wants a little coverage. 
 That's Halloween night. 
 Right, which is why no one else will take it. 
 Ah. Thus the new guy. 
 On my way to class, but you can stay and check out last year's piece. You'll do fine. 
 I don't know. Are there going to be any racially fueled outbursts at this thing? 
 Never know right? 79. 
 Am I a good writer? 
 You'll get better. And we need you right now. 
 You're just a big recommendation away from landing the Times. 
 God I hope so. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Hey. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I'm glad we finally got that Bugle on your chest. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) There's a big party the night of the Donor's event. Call me after, maybe we can hang? 
 Yeah. Sounds good. 
" 
 (V.O.) Dear White People. Are you tired of your hum drum, Wonderbread existence of accidental racism and wishing you could sip on Henny out yo crunk cup without a Bitch giving you the side-eye? Course you are. 
: 
 (V.O.) For all those looking to unleash their inner Negro from years of bondage and oppression Pastiche proudly presents "Dear White People" our 89th annual Hallow's Eve Costume Party - tonight at 10 Pacific Time or 5 Colored People Time. Sorry for the short notice, but let's keep it one hun-ed. You've had us on your calendar for weeks. 
 (V.O.) Dudes must rock FUBU, Ecko, Rocawear, or Sean John. XXXL is the smallest size T-Shirt you can wear, preferably with a collage of Barack Obama and Tupac on it. Stunner Shades, chains, and Blue-Tooth devices sticking out yo ears are also encouraged. 
 (V.O.) Ladies, we need to see huge hoop earrings, long nails, and cheap tight clothes. (MORE) 81. 
 KURT (V.O.) (CONT'D) A proper hood rat starts fights, speaks loudly, and when she can't think of the word she's trying to say just makes one up, such as "edumicated." Feel free to fry up some chicken, bring Kool-Aid, Watermelon, 40s, Henny, and of course Dat Purple Drank. No bougie bitches allowed. 
 (V.O.) Naturally there will be a freestyle rap competition so bring it, get yo shine on and join us for the party of the year! Oh and Nigga Nigga Nigga Nigga. Boy that felt good. 
 Funny seeing you here. 
 Father likes to show me off at all the Donor functions. The dessert course is usually my cue to take a breather while they talk shop. (friendlier) The trick is to dazzle them into forking over their estates just before they kick the bucket. 
 So...Picard or Kirk? 
 Kirk. Wait... 
 I saw you watching Star -- 82. 
 -- Yo what happens in the crib stays in the crib. Not trying to get my card revoked. 
 Hey, some could argue that a show with Whoopi Goldberg, Michael Dorn and Kunta Kinte himself is a pretty Black show. 
 Yeah? That work out for you? 
 No. No it did not. At least not in High School. I bet there's a statue of you at your High School. 
 I was beloved. Won't lie. 
 Did they know you were a trekker? 
 My pops left a paint by numbers template for success at that High School. All I had to do was fill in the blanks. Football captain. Valedictorian. Prom King. 
 TROY (CONT'D) So what? You're growing that out? 
 I think it's gaining sentience. 
 It's...out there. 
 It's like a black hole for white people's fingers. They're obsessed. 
 You know I cut hair. Why didn't you ask me? 
 You're I dunno...you? 83. 
 Li! You ready man? 
 No costumes? I got a tux for this. 
 We just got out of the staff room. 
 Yeah, we're going as overworked. 
 Where is it? 
 Garmin House. On third I think? 
 Third and Basin. I know it. 
 Yo man. If I'd gone to your High School, I'd have had your back. 
 ...my own firm. Maybe run for office. Make a difference you know? 84. 
 This is kind of fucked up. Right? 
 Pastiche. The world's most erudite boneheads. Who wants another round? Come on Lionel, help a brother out. 
 Kitchen's this way. 
 Hey there muffins. How do I look? Why are white folks so obsessed with being Black? And why are Black folks so addicted to Blonde Barbie doll weaves? Honeys it's a strange symbiosis we're here to explore... 
 Ouch. 
 Sorry. 
 It's okay. Can't wait to cut all this off. 
 Don't you dare. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) I could eat you like a Hershey's. 
 I'll be right back. 
 What the hell? 
 
 For a genius dude you're a fucking idiot. 86. 
 I did it, we did it for you. 
 I didn't ask for it Reggie. I look like I betrayed this house. 
 Yeah? Well you betrayed me. 
 Sam? Can we talk? 
 Hey who am I? "Bitch it's weave. Noun. Present tense ho!" 
 Yeah? 
 Kurt, it's me. I can't do this. 87. 
 Okay, I'm fucking confused. 
 What do you want me to do? Go over there and yell at them? 
 Have you heard you yelling? 
 This house is filled with folks willing to take up after a cause Lionel. Believe me. Never would have guessed you'd be one of them but... 
 For the first time in my life, I can't just sit around and do nothing. How can you? 
 If I'm caught being a part of anything like this...it wouldn't be good for me right now okay? 
 SAM (CONT'D) I'm done being everybody's angry Black chick. 
 Hey. How's it going. Hi. 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) Hey...what is this? 
 Black Student Union. 
 Your call then man. 
 (to everyone) Alright ya'll - thanks for coming out tonight. Looks like Sam's not making it so...let's just call it. 
 Uh. Excuse me. Hi. I'm Lionel. Some of you...none of you probably know me. I've never been to a meeting. But I just came back from a party on campus and I think you should know about it. 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) Anybody mind if I? 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) I mean...I don't know. This is fucked up right? 
 Alright brother. What's the plan? 89. 
 We go over there. Now. 
 Think there's enough of us? 
 You know you don't have a monopoly on being a pissed off minority. Latino's United is meeting across the hall. Asian American League too. (off the stares) You guys got better snacks. 
 Dad... 
 Not now Troy. 
 It's important. There's something happening on campus. I might've... 
 You're being rude son. 
 Oh am I? How about I tell your precious donors and anyone here who'll listen about the kind of a school it is they're giving to? 
 I don't know who you think you are young man but you don't get to talk to your father any kind of way. 
 All I say to you is yes sir and no sir! Look I should've brought this up before but -- (off Fairbanks dismissal) -- listen to me! 
 What? 
 Yeah dude. We all got it. I mean, everything's cool right? 
 Lionel? 
 KURT (CONT'D) The fuck you think you're doing man? 
 KURT (CONT'D) That all you got? 91. 
 We're putting an end to this Kurt. 
 Fuck you I'm calling the cops. 
 Half of this crowd is under 21. 
 Gimme that mic Before I slap ya Looking for some dykes, that wanna another chapta. If you do me slow, you can do me faster, I'll pass you to the Nigga on my right, he gets you after. 
 Kurt-- 
 -- Why don't you tuck your tail between your legs, run and tell the Dean and get the fuck out. 
 Heyyyy! Hoooo! Heyyy! Hooo! 92. 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) My name is Lionel, Some people call me Li. Lots of people think that I talk kinda white. Well that's alright. Yeah that's cool. I'd rather you think I'm white, than tap dance for you. 
 What? Say it. Come on. 
 COCO (CONT'D) This may come as a shock, but these people don't give a fuck about no Harriet muthafuckin Tubman. They pay millions of dollars on their tans, their lips, their asses, Jay- Z tickets, you name it, cause they wanna be us. (MORE) 93. 
 COCO (CONT'D) So they got to be for a night.I'm not about to go out into the streets in protest of a Halloween party. 
 Dude. I know you can't help it... 
 KURT (CONT'D) ...but why are you such a fag dude? 
 Finally got me where you want me. 
 What is all this? 
 I didn't do this. Sam. I had nothing to do with this. 
 What some are calling a "race war" has erupted at one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious -- 
 We don't condone this egregious event and are investigating its origins. The president and I are looking at ways to address issues of Diversity at Manchester. 
 
! 
 I'm sorry but it's bullshit. Yo this is how we get down. If you can't take a joke in this day and age? The fact we can joke about it proves we've moved on you feel me? This is an attack on free speech! We're the victims here! 
 It's hard enough for us to even get into a school like this. Let alone succeed. Find our way. This is only a debate because of who Kurt's dad is, which just proves the point. All you did was have a radio show and look what happened to you. 
 I know this may come as a shock, but nobody gives a fuck about no Harriet muthafuckin Tubman...they wanna be us. So they got to be for a night. 
 Of course I got my dad involved. It was the right thing to do. I didn't mean for all this to happen. All the posters and everything. 
 (O.S.) But you'd welcome it? A shot for school president. 
 I think...I'd make more than few people happy if I ran. 
 (V.O.) Even though I'd been expressly forbidden to do so, I wanted to do one last show. Something to sum up the moment. To savor in the pop of the post racial bubble just burst. 
 Dear White People... 
 (V.O.) I wanted to react. 
 ...Know what? Nevermind. 
 Once I heard what the group was planning, I sent out an email to the staff to cancel it. You have the email printed in front of you. 
 Who's this? 
 My lawyer. 
 So when I got the invite and saw everyone clicking "yes" I figured it was back on. 
 You were hoping to make the staff? 
 ... 
 At what point in time did you show up to the event? 
 Why am I even here? 
 94              Guys throw parties at the house all               94 the time. 98. 
 We know you were planning this. 
 Your son tell you that? 
 (reading) "...wishing you could sip on Henny out yo crunk cup without a Bitch giving you the side-eye?" (and then) You write this Troy? 
 No. Mine wasn't chosen. 
 But you wanted to be? 
 What I wanted didn't matter then. Why should it matter now? I told you about the party, remember? 
 94              The invite came from the Pastiche               94 Facebook account. 
 I loathe Facebook. 
 KURT (CONT'D) You've got to believe me. 
 You've used that line on me before this year Mr. Fletcher. When a homophobic message mysteriously appeared on a voice mail line you shared with a roommate. 
 To stop it. 
 By any means necessary? 
 Someone once told me...Manchester is like jazz. I don't know much about jazz. But from what I can tell, when your solo's up, you better blow. 
 Well what's interesting is how easy it was to access the group before the note was sent. The password was "Pa$tiche" spelled with a dollar sign according to Kurt. Seems recently it's been changed. 
 As much as you hate him, you will stop at nothing to protect your master and his boy. 
 Did you send out the invite Sam? 
 That invite, whoever sent it should've been met with derision and outrage. Instead, a hundred people showed up and they pulled out posters and decorations and costumes they'd made for just such an occasion. 
" 101. 
 2 Chainz? Shaft? While endless complex depictions of whites, white men in particular exist - there aren't that many versions of us in the culture. 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) Culture has a powerful way of telling people what they can and can't be. For people of color the options are rather limited. 
 Next James Baldwin up in here. Wait hold on a sec. 
 Hello Sam. 
 GABE (CONT'D) Read about Armstrong / Parker. 
 Yeah. Prez made an executive withdrawal. Armstrong stays Black. 
 Congrats? 102. 
 (with a shrug) Getting too dramatic man. Thinking about getting an apartment off campus. We'll see. 
 Sam going against the grain? Shocked. How's papa White? 
 He's recovering. 
 Good. Well... 
 We were actually on the phone last night for hours. First time we talked since the bypass. He was putting up a strong front. Teasing me about being so worried. Then came the stories about me as a little girl I'd heard a thousand times. About how independent I was. 
 Want to talk about it? 
 My mother worked nights so he would take me to school. And it pissed me off because he would follow me all the way to homeroom. Every time he tried to hold my hand I'd scream and pull away. He thought I was just being...difficult. 
 SAM (CONT'D) But it was the kids. And the parents and the teachers. They'd see this Black girl and this white man and wonder what we were doing together. Even at nine I could feel their eyes on me. Especially at nine. It brought tears to my eyes. 
 SAM (CONT'D) I was just a bratty girl, didn't know any better but-- The thought of losing him-- You know? I just feel so bad. How awful am I to do that to him? To anyone I love? 
 I'm sure he forgives you. 
 Think so? 
 SAM (CONT'D) So anyway. I didn't mean to say all of that. I don't know why I did. 
 Sam. Where are you going? 
 I don't know. Lunch? 
 Isn't it Mac and Cheese day at Armstrong/Parker? 
 Think they'll let you in? 
 COCO (YOUTUBE) I know this may come as a shock, but they don't give a fuck about no Harriet muthafuckin Tubman... 104. 
 Two hundred thousand views. Look they even auto-tuned it. 
 Couple months, that's how long shooting for an episode takes. We recommend you cut your course load in half to accommodate the schedule. 
 Half? 
 Trust me it it'll read "full-time" in the episode. If...once we go to series, we might have to figure out a summer schedule. 
 For shooting? 
 For uh...classes and stuff. Won't be graduating early anymore sweetheart. 
 HELMUT (CONT'D) Five grand for the episode. Twenty each if you get picked up for series. What do you say? 
 HELMUT (CONT'D) Trust me sweetie it's the same out there as it is in here. Good news is? Against all that damn white you and I? We pop. Think I wanted to be the go-to producer for all things Black? 105. 
 HELMUT (CONT'D) Tell you what's worse though. Being that broke Nigga stuck on the south side of Chicago. Hundred and Fiftieth street. 
 Made some new friends? 
 COCO (CONT'D) Fine. 
 Come on Coco. 
 Fuck you. 
 My dad saw your videos. He's a little worried about -- 
 -- how it'll look. With your campaign and all. What's your best friend Reggie think? 
 We had fun, alright? 
 I get everyone else wants you to win Troy. But do you? 
 Hey Lionel. With me out and Troy moving on - A/P's going to need a new head of house. 
 Think there's a story there? Who do you think it'll be? 
 LIONEL (CONT'D) What? No. 
 Everyone loves you. Won't be hard to rally the vote. 
 Yeah. We got you man. 
 Let me get this straight. First you tried to break up the Black house. Then you took down the sister with the little radio show. And after all that, your kid throws a Blackface party? 
 Now wait a minute! 
 You thought you were having money problems before? Wait till cable gets their hands on this story. Bill Maher is gon' fuck you up! 
 I have heard enough -- 107. 
 -- Wait I'm sorry. Look from where I'm sitting this place is a goldmine. 
 What? 
 For one we got to show the events that led up to the party -- 
 -- That already happened. 
 Well yeah, but we can reenact -- 
 -- reenact? 
 Documentary term...Look, I can start putting together an overall deal today. I'm talking real money! Turns out the one thing America likes in it's reality more than ignant Black folks, is crazy racist White people! 
 Now you look here. This is an honorable institution. The idea that we would so much as entertain this suggestion -- 
 
