 
 
 
 
 1963. FADE IN: 1   EXT. CADILLAC DEALERSHIP - DAY                                   1 BILL BABOWSKY ("BB"), a wiry, dapper-looking man in his mid-thirties, is circling a baby blue Cadillac. A SALESMAN follows on his heels. 
 She's a beauty. 
 (looking at Salesman) Who? 
 What? 
 Who's the beauty? 
 The car. 
 I thought maybe you saw some chick walking by. I lost my concentration. Why do they call cars 'she'? They never say 'he'... always 'she.' The Salesman shrugs his shoulders.      walks around the Cadillac. 
 Very nice... very nice. 
 You're a sick man! Sick! Do ya hear me?! Do ya hear me?! (CONTINUED) 
 Who's sick? 
 Who do ya think I'm screaming at? How many of you are there up there? There's only you, and you're a sick human being. 
 (quietly, coming down a few steps) Where's my white on white shirt? The nice one, you know. 
 It's like yelling through a wall to you. I'm carrying on about what a disgusting human being you are, and all you want to know is where your white on white shirt is. 
 Yes, the one with the permanent stays. CUT TO: 
 Now don't try to hustle me here ... you know what I mean. I hate being hustled. Give me an honest price, not one of your 'special' deals... give me an honest price. Do I make myself clear? 
 Now, how much are you willing to pay? 
 There ya go... there ya go... you're doing it... you're doing one of those hustle numbers. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm just trying to get an idea how much you're willing to pay. 
 Four dollars... I want to pay four dollars a month. 
 That's not an honest answer. 
 What do ya want to hear? That I'd love to pay three hundred and fifty a month... is that what you want to hear? Tell me how much you want me to pay and I'll tell you how much I'll pay, but don't do a hustle on me... I don't like that. How much do I want to pay? I'd like to pay nothing! CUT TO: 
 You're being unreasonable.     You don't even want to listen. 
 I don't know what I did... I got no idea. If it's my fault, I'm sorry... I'm sorry. I can do no better than that. A full unconditional apology. Tilley walks down the steps of the house and goes to his car -- a Cadillac. He gets inside, STARTS the ENGINE and pulls away. Nora remains on the porch watching the car ... one lonely figure in a neighborhood of hundreds of duplicate houses. CUT TO: 
 If you even have the smallest problem, call me personally and I'll just shoot you straight into the service department. 
 And I get a loaner if the car's got to stay? 
 As we discussed, you get a car if the car has to be kept overnight. 
 I get a loaner? The Salesman nods. CUT TO: 
 She's gonna drive me to my grave... I'm headed to my grave... the woman's driving me insane... it's not supposed to happen this way. He starts moving his head -- stretching his neck from right to left. 
 It's not even eleven o'clock and my neck is stiffening up. He juts his jaw out. 
 My neck's tight... it's tight. CUT TO: 
 Are you a lunatic? Can't you see I'm trying to back out of this lot? There's a red light, you shoulda stopped. 
 Me? What are you, crazy? You just want to back into the middle of the street like that. A man's just driving along and you back into the middle of the street. What kind of driving is that? What kind of driving? (CONTINUED) 
 There's a red light, I'm making a space for myself... that's what I'm doing, in order to get into the street... that's something ya do! 
 You came out of nowhere... you bolted out of no place... bolted out of nowhere. 
 Bolted! At six miles an hour I'm bolting into the street! You schmuck! You schmuck! He moves toward Tilley. 
 Back away from me, do ya hear me? Back away from me. 
 Back away? You want me to back away? I'll back away. He turns to walk away from Tilley, walks and then turns back and kicks in the headlight of Tilley's car. 
 You're a fucking lunatic! He goes for BB, jumps him and they both fall on to the trunk of BB's car. People have started to gather and immediately jump in and pull BB and Tilley apart. 
 You're a madman! Smashes into me, attacks me... the man is crazy! People continue to pull them apart. 
 #1 Come on now, calm down, calm down. He holds BB's arms. Another grabs for Tilley and tries to pull him off BB. 
 #2 Take it easy... take it easy... (CONTINUED) 
 (to people watching) Get  this guy! Will ya get this guy?   Backs in front of me, and then  kicks my headlight in... and  I'm crazy. You lunatic! Tilley makes another jump for BB.    Again, people try pulling them apart. 
 You're going to prison. Death! Death! They're going to give you death! 
 Car only has one sixteenth of a mile, and I've been hit. He turns back and looks at Tilley. 
 I'm gonna get even with you, you son of a bitch... I'm gonna get even with you. This is no ordinary traffic accident. 
 You want to drive a Cadillac, learn how to drive. You want to get even with somebody? You picked the wrong person to get even with. Nobody backs into traffic, smashes my car and says they want to get even. I'm gonna get even! CUT TO: 
 Did ya see 'Bonanza' last night? Can you tell me why Ben Cartwright had a colored guy stay over? (CONTINUED) 
 Ben Cartwright had a colored guy stay overnight at the Ponderosa? MOUSE, who is picking his teeth with a matchbook, squints at Sam with an investigative look. 
 Did he know this guy personally? 
 No... he was just passing through, asked if he could stay over, and Ben Cartwright said 'sure thing.' It doesn't make any sense... he invites a strange colored guy in... invited him in to stay. Is that crazy or what? If a colored guy came to my door and said 'can I stay the night,' I'd tell him 'get the fuck out of here'! It's nothing personal, mind you. 
 You're not a bigot, is that what you're telling us? 
 Me?   No, I'm not a bigot. 
 If you're not, how come you're making such a big thing out of it? 
 It's the fact the Ben Cartwright's on the Ponderosa... he's in the middle of nowhere. It's not like he's living on Reisterstown Road with houses all around... we're talking about the West here. It's the idea that a strange guy comes to the door in the middle of the West. It doesn't make sense, that's all I'm saying. 
 Come on... you're a bigot, that's what you are. (CONTINUED) 
 Listen, I'll sell tin to anybody ... I don't care who he is. A mark's a mark, whether he's Chinese, Indian or from Mars... I'm thoroughly integrated. Makes no difference to me... I just wouldn't have one of those guys sleep in my house. CUT TO: 
 Florence, eggs and the toast, the way I like it. FLORENCE, who doesn't have too much energy, calls back to Tilley. 
 Not too gooey.     Coffee right away. She trails the last word. Sam is still talking about his problem with "Bonanza." 
 I just don't believe that 'Bonanza' is an accurate description of the West. I say no more. Tilley slips into the booth next to Sam.    He indicates for Sam to give him more room. 
 Come on, give me a couple of more inches. 
 You want me to take my plate... I'll eat in the parking lot. (CONTINUED) 
 Come on, Sam, I'm having a terrible morning. You're not going to believe this, some guy just crashed into me... right in the middle of the street... then he attacks me. One of the loonies. 
 (biting into his toast) Did ya live? 
 Did you get his name? 
 Yeah, I got his name. The police came... God, I can't believe it... the guy's an idiot. He pulls a piece of paper from his pocket. 
 Yeah, here it is... some Polish name... Babowski... Bill Babowski ... fucking son of a bitch. 
 I know the guy... they call him 
. 
 You know the son of a bitch? 
 Yeah, he works with Bagel. 
 He sells aluminum siding? I don't believe it... of all the people that could run into me, it has to be a fucking tin man. How come I don't know him? 
 You musta seen him. He hangs out with Carly Benelli, Cheese ... you know, that group. 
 I don't know the guy. (CONTINUED) 
 Don't you remember, he was up at the Corral one night when we were there... he's a good dancer. You must have seen him. 
 I don't know the guy. 
 Gil, he doesn't know the guy. 
 I thought he knew him, Sam... I can't believe he doesn't know him. 
 He seems to be indicating that he doesn't know him. 
 I don't know the guy! 
 He's a good dancer. 
 What do you want me to do, date him? What do I give a shit if he's a good dancer? 
 I thought you saw him. I was amazed, he does a Marengay... I tell you if I was a girl I'd be impressed. 
 You're not a girl and you're impressed! Florence comes over and puts down some coffee in front of Tilley. 
 Is it fresh? 
 Yes, it's fresh! 
 Just asking, Florence. (CONTINUED) 
 You're always just asking. Gil still talking about BB. 
 I'm telling you, you just can't believe how well this guy does the Marengay. 
 I can't wait to see it. 
 I'll  tell you one thing,    when I get a  hold of this guy,    I'll break  both his legs and    then he won't  dance the Marengay    too good. CUT TO: 
 #1 Good morning, I represent the Superior Aluminum Siding Company. We will have a representative in your neighborhood today. Would you be interested in seeing the benefits of our aluminum product? (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 GIRL #1 (CONT'D) (beat) Yes... well, we do aluminum siding which improves the appearance of your house, and improves the insulation... CAMERA MOVES TO ANOTHER GIRL. 
 #2 ... Which improves the appearance of your house, and improves the insulation... CAMERA MOVES TO #3. 
 #3 ... Superior Aluminum Siding Company. We will have a representative... CAMERA MOVES TO another corner of the room where we see 4 "tin men" salesmen sitting around one of the desks playing cards. MOE is beginning to tell a joke. He is a man in his 50's. 
 So the guy goes to the doctor for a physical... they do all those tests, all that stuff, blah, blah, blah... BB enters the scene and goes over and gets himself a cup of coffee. 
 ...   Doctor says 'when we get all the   information back, we'll give you   a call.' Leaves the doctor. One   day the telephone rings... the   guy goes and picks it up. 
 The guy? 
 (immediately aggravated) The guy! 
 Not the doctor? (CONTINUED) 
 That's right, the guy picks    it up. He gets a phone call... it's    the doctor on the line. Doctor     says 'I've got some bad news and    some worse news.' BB join the tin men to listen to Moe's joke. 
 Guy    says 'Well, let me hear the bad    news first.' 'The bad news is,    you've got twenty-four hours to    live.' The guy says 'What's the    worse news?' Doctor says 'I    forgot to call you yesterday.' They all laugh. LOONEY, a thin guy who twitches and blinks a lot, stands up. 
 It's good... I like it. 
 I never heard bad news and worse news... smart joke. 
 Yeah... I like it. CARLY It's dumb, but good. BB, who is not laughing, stands behind Cheese who throws 50 cents into the card game. 
 Up it fifty cents. 
 I call... I call. I'm in on this one... I call. 
 We get it, you're calling. CARLY I'm not sure. 
 Stay with him. CARLY I don't know. (CONTINUED) 
 Carly, get out of the hand... I'm holding serious cards. Very serious cards. 
 He's bluffing. 
 If I'm lying, I'm dying. CARLY I'm out. 
 Ballsy move. Moe throws his hand in, too. 
 (to BB) Did you get the new Cadillac? 
 Yeah.    It's already been hit. 
 What? 
 Didn't have it     five minutes, backing out of     the place, and a guy comes out     of nowhere and bangs into my     car. 
 So, what ya got? Cheese throws his hand down. 
 Pair of sixes. 
 Jacks.     Win. CARLY Shit!    Pair of sixes. 
 (about car) How much damage? 
 I bet it's six hundred bucks. (CONTINUED) 
 Six hundred bucks? I'd get rid of the car. That much damage it won't be any good. You may have dented the frame. 
 I didn't dent the frame. 
 When you hit the frame, the car doesn't ride right. 
 He didn't hit the frame! I'll tell you this, I'm gonna get the son of a bitch. If he would have apologized or something, but this guy gets out, tries to push me around. 
 You're kidding me? 
 Yeah... the guy's totally off the wall. He takes a sip of his coffee. 
 I'm gonna get him... just for the fun of it. CUT TO: 
 Now, let me see... we gotta be at the Hickey house at four. (he looks at his watch) It's about three-twenty now... we've got some time on our hands. You want to get some coffee? 
 No, I'm up to here with the coffee. He indicates his throat. 
 They got any good pool halls around here? 
 I don't know. (beat) You know what would be fun to do..? Let's try the Life Magazine routine. 
 (smiles) Yeah. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) You know, I think we've got to come over about two feet. The SCREEN SHAKES as moves the camera. CUT TO: 
 I think this  is a better position... the light is  hitting it, which is accentuating  the effect we're going for.   It's very good... very good. 
 (in a creative pose) This shows the flaws in the structure... CUT TO: 
 (under his breath, to Moe) She's at the window. 
 Yeah. 
 (in a loud voice) This is going to be terrific in Life Magazine. (even louder) Terrific in Life Magazine! (under his breath) Come on outside, honey. 
 (in loud voice) This should be our single biggest issue of Life Magazine. We see the Housewife coming out of her front door. 
 (quietly) Bingo! The Housewife approaches and Moe suspiciously. 
 Excuse me.   What are you doing? (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, I hope we're not disturbing you, ma'am. We're with Life Magazine... we'll be out of here in just a minute. 
 (still looking through camera; to Moe) Move the tripod another foot... another foot. Moe moves the tripod. 
 What do you mean, Life Magazine? 
 (looking up from camera) Two minutes, ma'am, and we'll be out of here. We just need the picture for Life Magazine, and we'll be out of here. 
 Life Magazine?     I don't understand. 
 It's very simple. Ya know, we're doing this layout about the benefits of aluminum siding -- a 'before' and 'after' kind of presentation. 
 A 'before' picture? 
 So they see your house, and another one done with aluminum siding... the other house looking so much more beautiful. 
 In Life Magazine? 
 It's a special issue on home improvements and ways to beautify your home. (CONTINUED) 
 A wonderful issue... it's one of the finest pictorial things we've done here at Life... the ways you can improve your house. (he adjusts the camera) We're gonna be out of here in no time, ma'am. 
 It's gonna look very good, BB. 
 My house is going to be the 'before'? Can't mine be like the 'after'? 
 No, no... we've got a house that looked like yours and it's been done in aluminum... it's very nice. 
 Yeah... really shows the contrast of what a house can look like. 
 What does it cost? 
 What? The aluminum siding? Oh... I don't know the figures offhand. Do you have any idea, Moe? 
 I think it's fairly reasonable. 
 Could my house be the 'after' in Life Magazine and you get another house for the 'before.' 
 You mean have your house as the 'after' and find another house that looks like your house for the 'before'? 
 Is it possible? (CONTINUED) 
 What do ya think, Moe?     Would that be ethical? 
 Well, we didn't sign any agreement with the 'after' house. We'd have to move very quickly, ma'am... you know what I mean? 
 You'd have to work out an arrangement with an aluminum siding company and they'd have to do the job very quickly for us to make our deadline... we've got a deadline, that's the problem. 
 How quickly? 
 BB, what do you think? Can we slide the deadline, or what? Six or seven days? 
 Pressing it. Do you think we could manage it, Moe? 
 It's pushing it, BB. (to Housewife) What time would your husband be home, 'cos he'd have to go over the figures with the salesman... that's if there's a salesman available this evening. 
 He'll be home at seven. 
 We might be able to work it. 
 That would be wonderful. CUT TO: 
 Thirty-seven hundred dollars? 
 Honey, we're gonna be in Life Magazine. 
 (to Moe) Moe, did you call  the office and make sure we  can hold up the issue until this  job is completed? This house really  could be a showcase. 
 Thirty-seven hundred dollars! CARLY I tell you what... I've got an idea. Do you mind my guys working on a Saturday? 'Cos if my crew can work on Saturday next, that'll free my guys up on Monday. Yeah, that'll really help me out on another job. Anyway, if we can do that, I think I'll be able to knock off three hundred and fifty dollars from the job. You see, I've got an overlapping situation on Monday... I don't want to go into it. What do ya think? We got a deal? 
 Yep. CUT TO: 
 What are the benefits of aluminum siding? One: you never have to paint. CUT TO: 
 ... You have much greater insulation. CUT TO: 
 ... It cuts down on your heating bills... CUT TO: 
 So what we've got is efficiency and the beautification of your home. CUT TO: 
 #2 No, I'm sorry, Mr. Tilley, I just can't afford it. 
 We haven't even got to discussing terms. There are so many friendly financial arrangements that would hardly be a bite into your weekly salary. (CONTINUED) 
 #2 No... not this time. 
 Well, as I said, you can always reach me... you've got my card, and when the time comes, let's talk. The Husband and wife stand to show Tilley to the door. 
 Hey, give my best to your little son... wonderful kid there. What's his name again, Ronnie? 
 #2 Randy. 
 Randy, right.    Well, good night. CUT TO: 
 I thought I had 'em... I was this close. He demonstrates with his fingers. 
 The amount of time you spent there, I thought you were ready to send for me to close it up. 
 Damn!    I thought I had 'em. Tilley STARTS the CAR and pulls out. CUT TO: 
 'Tall and tan and young and lovely, the girl from Ipanema goes walking, and when she passes each one she passes goes... "Ah!"' The last word of the verse -- "Ah" -- has great emphasis put on it and is lengthened considerably. The people sitting around the piano all join the pianist and say "Ah" in unison. CAMERA MOVES OVER TO a table where Mouse, Sam, Tilley, Gil and a few other tin men set. WING, the head of Gibraltar Aluminum, a tall, strong, imposing figure, holds court. The table is filled with papers, folders, etc., as if Wing's office desk had been trans- ported to the bar. He's reviewing a paper from a job that Mouse has done. WING Forty-six hundred dollars. This looks like a sound deal. They own their own house... we won't have any problem getting the financing for them. Real good, Mouse. He picks up his check book ledger and writes out a check. WING (writing) So, that's one thousand, one hundred and thirty-eight dollars. Finishes writing check and hands it to Mouse. 
 Thanks, boss. Pleasure doing business with ya. Mouse takes the check and pockets it.   Wing turns to Tilley and Sam. WING Now, what's your guys' story? 
 Nothing again... came up short. Let me get a little advance... three hundred, just to carry me for a bit. WING Tilley, I'm already carrying you for, what is it -- twenty-three hundred? Something like that? (CONTINUED) 
 No problem... just in a little slump here. WING Don't try to go walking on me. 
 What do you mean, walking? You think I'm gonna work somewhere else... you've been very good to me... very honorable. 
 He's always said that about you, Wing. Always said that about you... he has. WING I'll give you hundred and fifty. 
 Wing, I need a bit more than that... I got expenses. WING What's wrong with your wife?   She doesn't work? 
 Yeah, but how much is she gonna make working at the Social Security office? Wing writes out a check and gives it to Tilley. 
 Come on, Wing, can't you do better than this... a man in my position in terms of this firm... I dunno... WING All right, I'll give you two hundred. Wing changes amount of check and hands it to Tilley. 
 (yelling to cocktail waitress) Honey, can you get me some Marlboros and a 7 and 7? (CONTINUED) 
 And some scotch, straight up. Tilley pockets the check. WING Now listen, guys, we got a problem here. 
 (to Mouse) Did she hear me say scotch straight up? WING My sources tell me this Home Improvement Commission is for real... it's no jackpot. These guys are going to be a real pain in the ass, so any of the scams that you guys are pulling, they get wind of it, they take your license and it's goodbye to this business. 
 They take away your license? They take away your livelihood? What kind of people are these? 
 They have no respect for the working man. 
 Which scams are they talking about? They got a list? 
 Jesus! What a pain in the ass. Do you think this commission's gonna stick around or is it gone with the wind? (CONTINUED) 
 They take your license? CUT TO: 
 I wouldn't mind seeing Africa some time. 
 Not me. I don't want to go where they've got snakes. 
 They've got snakes? 
 I've heard they've got snakes that'll outrun a horse through the grass. They got a snake that bites you... you got eleven seconds to live. No thank you. I don't want to spend my good money to visit with that kind of jeopardy. I'd like to go to a place where... hold it! He hits the brakes suddenly. 
 What's wrong? BB backs his car halfway up the street. He stops in the driveway of the Pimlico Hotel parking lot. 
 The guy who ran into me... that's his car. He puts the car into park and opens the car door. (CONTINUED) 
 I'll be back, Moe.    I'm gonna even the score. He gets out of the car, quickly walks over to Tilley's Cadillac, and with a swift kick, he kicks the headlight that isn't already broken. CUT TO: 
 (to Mouse) Give me eight points I take the Knicks over the Lakers for 20. 
 It's too big a spread. We hear the    sound of BREAKING GLASS. Tilley responds to the sound.     He looks out of the glass doors and sees BB kicking in    the headlight of his car. BB runs back towards his    car. 
 It's that fucking lunatic again. He races out of the door of the hotel towards BB's car which pulls away and speeds down the street. Several of the tin men run after Tilley. He stands in the street watching the car disappear. 
 (still looking after the car) Can you believe this guy?    Is he sane or what? 
 Isn't that something? 
 What's he got, a gnat up his ass? What the hell's wrong with the guy? 
 Don't you recognize him from the Corral? (CONTINUED) 
 I don't know the guy! 
 I'll never forget his Marengay. 
 I'll tell you something, if Mr. Marengay wants to play... we'll play. CUT TO: 
 (without looking up from the crossword puzzle) Look at you, quarter to three and home already. What happened? You and the fellas run out of things to talk about? 
 Please! I'm out there working myself to the bone, trying to make a living. He goes over to the refrigerator and gets himself some orange juice. 
 What's a five letter word for a Portuguese overseas province? 
 Try Macao. 
 M-A-C-A-O... that fits. (CONTINUED) 
 What're you doing up so late? 
 We're off tomorrow. Beat. 
 I think this place may be a little too large for us. 
 What are you talking about... this match box? 
 It's got a lot of overhead to it. What do you do... spend your time in the bedroom and the kitchen, that's all. So why do you need a living room and a dining room. He walks over to the back door and looks out. 
 Why do ya need a back yard? 
 You're not selling anything? 
 I'm in a slump. 
 It happens. 
 Last year I'm number three top seller... year before, right up there. I  can't get my momentum going this year. 
 Well, you will. You always do. 
 (beat) I'm not sure I like the idea of all this overhead breathing down my neck. When you have a place like this, that's a lot of overhead. (CONTINUED) 
 What are you talking about? The monthly payments on your Cadillac are more than this whole house. Why don't you get yourself something cheaper, like a Chevy? 
 It doesn't instill confidence in my clients. Cadillac means that you're dealing with someone of importance. (beat) I thought I had a couple tonight... they just slipped away... slipped away. (beat) I'm gonna take a bath -- my neck's been tight since this morning. 
 I'll turn out the lights. Nora gets up and puts the cups in the sink -- gives a big sigh. CUT TO: 
 You know, Tilley, we hardly ever do things together. 
 Like what? 
 Do things together that are enjoyable. 
 What would we do together for it to be enjoyable? 
 If we went on a picnic... it would be fun. (CONTINUED) 
 I don't understand a picnic... we just go some place... we put a thing on the ground, and we eat. 
 Yes... it's nice to do that. 
 Why? I don't get it. It's better sitting at home and watching TV. 
 I think there's something nice about a picnic... it's fun. 
 What's fun about it? Ants get into the food... there's bees. I don't get it. We have to drive, it takes maybe an hour to get there, then you sit in grass and eat. Why is that fun? 
 I just thought it might be nice to do something together, that's all... thought it might be fun. 
 It doesn't sound like fun to me... you take the stuff you've got here in the house, you take it someplace to eat it. It's just as much fun eating in front of the TV, and we do that together, don't we? No ants and no bees... much more comfortable. 
 It's not the same thing. 
 Scrub my back, will ya, Nora. Nora picks up the back brush, puts soap on it and starts scrubbing Tilley's back. (CONTINUED) 
 Not too hard! (beat) Don't get me wrong, I'm willing to do anything with you. I'm just a little stymied by a picnic. If you want to go, send me a postcard. Nora drops the brush in the tub and walks out of the bathroom. 
 What did I say? 
 I think you make a left here. Tilley turns the car. 
 Yeah... there it is... that's the place... Superior Aluminum... that's it over there. As Tilley pulls up we see BB's car parked outside of the building. 
 Okay, Mr. Marengay... here I come. He reaches into the backseat of the car and takes out a crowbar. 
 Hey, Tilley, don't go too wild... (CONTINUED) 
 I'll show the son of a bitch. He gets out of the car, crosses to BB's Cadillac, and smashes in the windshield and all of the windows of the car. 
 (as he smashes, wildly) He'll get a lot of air... won't be too stuffy in this car when I'm finished. 
 (calling from Tilley's Cadillac) Quick, Tilley... let's get out of here. Tilley runs back to his car and drives away. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) That was a good sale, Double B. Just got a call on a loan... we're in business. 
 We see BAGEL. He's a little guy with a black Fedora and baggy pants held up with suspenders. BB stands with him. 
 This whole section has been very fertile for us. CUT TO: (CONTINUED) 
 Moe, Looney and Carly are talking to STANLEY FRANKS, a young guy in his early 20's. He is dressed in the "Ivy League" look of the times. 
 (to Stanley) Sure you wanna get into the tin game? 
 Money's good, I understand. 
 Lot of crazy people you're gonna run into when you're knocking on those doors. Hermits that don't see the outside world, Jehovah's Witnesses that try and sell you the Bible at the same time you're trying to sell them tin. People that are just lonely and want to have conversations. CARLY Every time you step in that door, you've got to be fast on your feet. 
 Interesting. 
 (quizzing Stanley) What's the best way to qualify a mark? 
 What? 
 How do you know if you can get the upper hand? How do you know if you're dealing with a guy who's in an inferior position to you, or superior position? How do you know? Moe puts Stanley on the defensive. 
 You just have to talk and feel your way. (CONTINUED) 
 Quick way... get a book of matches out of your pocket to light your cigarette... you drop the matches on the floor. 
 (looks puzzled) Yeah. 
 Guy bends down to pick up the matches for you, you got a mark... you got this guy in your pocket. If he looks to you to pick it up, you've got a long, hard, tough sell on your hands. BB walks over to the guys, having just poured himself some coffee. 
 You want to get in good with these people... you want to win their confidence? Good thing to try... get a five dollar bill, take it out when the guy's not looking, drop it on the ground. Guy looks back, pick it up, hand it to him and say, 'Mr. Blah blah, you musta dropped this five dollar bill on the ground.' Two things happen... he says, 'It's not mine,' you say, 'Musta been, 'cos it's certainly not mine,' or the guy takes it. Right away this guy is thinking you must be one hell of a nice guy... you're in. You start chipping away... you start getting inside those people. Stanley is quite taken by their information.   puts his cup down and grabs his coat. 
 Come on, Moe, let's split. 
 (to Stanley) Yeah, we'd better go, too. Come on, Stanley. (to Carly who is hanging behind) Me and Stanley. It's like a first date. CUT TO: 
 What? You got a special bargain when you bought this car? They come cheaper without windows? BB reaches into the car and picks up a handful of broken glass. He tosses it up and down in his hands. 
 This guy's looking to play tit for tat. That's not my game. I'm gonna play hardball. throws the glass down on the ground. 
 (to Looney, quietly) What's going on? Looney just nods for them to go, and they start to walk over to Looney's Cadillac. 
 I'm gonna find    out everything about this son    of a bitch, and then I'm gonna    find the one thing that cuts him    to the quick. 
 Let's go inside... make some calls. 
 Damn it! Damn it! I can't believe it... I can't believe I did that. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, then, believe it. There's no sense not to believe it, because you did it... so believe it. That's twenty more... you owe me sixty. 
 You think I can't add? He goes to rack to re-set. Mouse     goes over and puts a nickel in the juke box. A RECORD     slips into position, and Harry Belafonte's "Banana Boat    Song" begins. Mouse, in unison with the record, sings,    and is totally caught up in the song. 
 'Dayo!... da, da, da, da, day. Daylight come and he wanna go home...' He sings very loudly, especially on the chorus. 
 (facetiously) Oh, this is going to be good. 
 'Dayo!... da, da, da, da, da, da, da.' (he hits his pool cue on the ground for emphasis) 'Daylight come and he wanna go home...' 
 Jesus Christ! We can hear the "BANANA BOAT SONG" through the door, with MOUSE SCREECHING along with it. Sam takes the letter and goes through the door to the pool hall. 
 Tilley. He nods for Tilley to go over to him. They start to walk together through the darkened areas of the Pool Hall. 
 Found this on your desk while I was going over some papers. He hands the letter to Tilley. 
 From the IRS. I never even remember seeing it. I must have left it with my other bills. I wonder what it is? 
 Maybe it's a refund check. Tilley opens the envelope and looks at the document. 
 Hum... says here that they haven't received my 1962 taxes. They seem to be saying that they didn't get my check for four thousand dollars. 
 What? It must be a clerical error. 
 I can't believe they spend all that time and energy to write to me... to single me out. 
 What are you talking about?   You didn't pay your taxes? 
 I probably forgot... people forget their taxes all the time... just slipped my mind... I got so many things on my mind. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TILLEY (CONT'D) I figured they could wait a few years... it's not like they need my money to build a bomber. You think they're waiting for my money before they dig a new road? Are they all sitting there saying, 'Well, it's time we went to see that guy on Pimlico Road... can't run this government without his four thousand dollars.' (beat) I figured they'd give me a little leeway. I'm going to pay them... I know I've got a debt... I just need a little leeway. 
 You can't mess around with the government. Why don't you go to H & R Block, they'll take care of your taxes for you. 
 You think I'm gonna let some schmuck know all my business... have some guy pull me over the coals for spending on this and that. I need some privacy. 
 Taxes is serious stuff, Tilley. 
 I can just see that schmuck in that little tax shop telling people my business... how much I make... how much I spend... no way! 
 All I can say, is you better get a lawyer or somebody to look into this, 'cos the IRS, they don't fuck around. 
 Just what I need in my life right now... I'm in a slump and I've got the IRS on me. Like when something goes wrong, it's like... He throws his arms up in the air in exasperation. CUT TO: 
 (to Nora) Are these any good do ya know? These TV dinners? 
 I don't think they're too good for you, not a lot of 'em anyway. She continues to choose her frozen foods.     BB continues talking to her. 
 My wife died. 
 (looking up) Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. 
 I'm over it now, but it was a very trying time... very trying... I've only just started eating again. (CONTINUED) 
 You know what would be a lot more healthy and satisfying is to get yourself a chicken... just pop it in the oven for a couple of hours with a little bit of seasoning on it. Makes a good meal, and you can make sandwiches with the leftovers. 
 But then you have to sit and watch it cook. Something seems sad about a man sitting alone in a house and watching a chicken cook. 
 He's an amazing sort... he's got the gift. CUT TO: 
 Thank you, Mr. Tilley. I can't believe it... this is the most generous thing anyone's ever done ... Swell! Like a gift from heaven. 
 The Lord has certainly blessed us this evening. 
 Well, what can I say... I'm a modest person... I just do what I can to help. 
 Thanks again. He opens the door for Tilley and Tilley walks out. CUT TO: 
 So, what's the scoop? 
 We got 'em! He's very excited. 
 You're kidding? 
 Take a look at this, Sam. Tilley shows him the written contract. Written across the front of the contract in big, bold, black letters are the words: "THIS JOB IS FREE." Sam looks at Tilley. 
 Are you fucking crazy? You just gave them forty-two hundred dollars in aluminum siding free?! (CONTINUED) 
 (smiles) This is the best scam I've ever thought of in my whole life. He kisses his hands with wild smacking sounds.     He's ecstatic. 
 It's in my blood... I'm brilliant ... I'm fucking brilliant... this is such a brilliant scam... I'm beside myself. 
 What are you talking about? 
 Here it is... you go back in the house and this is what you say... CUT TO: 
 Mr. Tilley is crazy... he had a nervous breakdown. WIDEN to include Man and Wife from before. 
 What's that? 
 He's been under a lot of pressure recently... he snapped... he had a nervous breakdown... it's the saddest thing I've ever seen. Let's be honest about it, nobody gives away forty-two hundred dollars' worth of aluminum siding free. 
 I thought it was very generous, but sometimes the Lord moves in mysterious ways. (CONTINUED) 
 Let me tell you something, when I go and see his boss and show him this contract, he's out of this business... he'll lose his home ... his wife and kids will be thrown out onto the street. He'll probably spend some time in an institution, so God knows what will happen to his wife and kids. Anyway, it's not your problem. 
 Why do they have to be thrown out onto the street? 
 You don't expect his boss to pick up the forty-two hundred job, do ya? 
 Hmm. 
 Yeah, it's a bad state of affairs. (beat) Let me ask you something, sir. 
 Yes? 
 You don't think there's some way you could work with me to try and resolve this, do you? 
 How so? 
 Let's look at it this way, what if I can sell you this job at a wholesale price... kind of lessens the burden. The big boss won't get so angry, and maybe won't throw the guy's wife and kids out... at least they'll have a roof over their heads. 
 What kind of wholesale price are we talking about? (CONTINUED) 
 You got a cup of coffee? 
 I'll get you a coffee... won't be a minute. 
 Let's just sit down and kick this around. The Wife goes into the kitchen. 
 (calling to Wife) No hurry, ma'am. The Man turns to sit down, and as he does so, Sam throws a $5 bill on the ground. 
 What you doing throwing your money around? He bends to pick up the $5 note. 
 What's that? 
 I found a five-dollar bill, here by the side of the chair. CUT TO: 53   INT. CORRAL CLUB - NIGHT                                53 
 You're kidding? CARLY Yeah... he'd always put his hand over the break when he was measuring. Nobody looks at a yardstick to see how long it is. 
 (laughs) I never did that... I never did that... I was never very good in arts and crafts. I  could never make the ruler come out right. The song ends. 
 Here's to Nora. Moe smiles, picks up his can, they tap their cans, and both take a swig of their beers. 
 What else? Give me another story ... these stories are great! 
 Just a minute... I've got one. You know it's like the faster you can start spiking a job, the guy can't back out of the deal. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 LOONEY (CONT'D) Shoe had some customers that he thought was fragile on coming for the buy. He'd say to the guy 'here let me show you how bad a shape your house is in,' and he'd rip off a piece of wood, maybe fifteen feet wide. The guy's house looks like shit so it makes it hard for him to back out of the deal when half the side of his house is missing. The Shoe's a fucking wonder. CUT TO: 
 Fantastic, Sam! A twenty-seven hundred sale! 'This job is free'! What a beaut! I'm out of the slump! Tilley's riding high again ... Tilley's back! We ought to go and celebrate. Let's go to the Corral and have a drink... we can turn the paperwork in a little later. 
 Gil says that's where 'Marengay' hangs out. 
 Gil keeps saying it... I've never seen him. (laughing and hit- ting the dashboard) I'm riding high... twenty-seven hundred dollars... 'this job is free'... the man went insane... lost control of himself... his wife and children are out on the street! (he laughs) Sometimes I'm brilliant... I'm fucking brilliant... I can't believe it. CUT TO: 
 (pointing to a girl) See that one, if you were married to that one two weeks you'd have to put your head out of the window for air... this one smothers. (looking over to another girl) That one is the kind that can't live without you... (whiney voice) ... 'Where were you? When will you be home?' 
 I should get out of here. I told my wife I'd be home early tonight. 
 Christ!    It's not even one o'clock yet. (beat) How long you been married now? What is it? Twelve... twelve years? 
 Sixteen. 
 Holy God! Sixteen years? What do you think? Is it worth it? 
 Yeah. 
 Why do you think? 
 It's hard to answer. (beat) Seems better than if she wasn't there. 
 Quite a recommendation... can't wait to do it. He laughs. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Sam) Scotch straight up? 
 Yeah. 
 (to barman) Scotch straight up and a rum and Coke for me. He looks around the room at the women. 
 Looks like there's good action here tonight. 
 What do you expect, it's half price night for divorced women. The place is hopping. 
 Look how much more complicated things are now. There used to be a time you met a girl, you courted and then you got married and lived happily ever after. Now, see that one over there... (he points to girl at a table) ... that's Helen Armstrong... maiden name used to be Tudor. Get this, she dated Charlie Rider when I was in high school, seemed like they were together forever. They broke up, she started to go with Lenny Mardigian, they got married, she's Helen Mardigian. That goes on two years... three years, something like that. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 BB (CONT'D) They divorce, dates Billy Small for a couple of years, lives with John Isaacs for a year, marries Tommy Selnini... that marriage goes in the toilet, but fast. Now she's dating Charlie Rider who was divorced by Evelyn Chartoff who used to be Evelyn Gage before that. (beat; he looks at Moe and laughs) So much for relationships. 
 I'm beginning to believe in God. 
 You were never one of those atheists, were you? 
 No, I'm not saying that, but I'm beginning to give God more thought. 
 So, what did you do? Have some kind of religious experience? 
 I tell ya... I took my wife for lunch yesterday... we went and had some smorgasbord, and it kind of happened. 
 You found God at the smorgasbord? 
 Yeah. 
 Sam, people have religious experiences like on a lake or when they go up into the mountains, that kind of thing. 
 Maybe... but I had mine in a smorgasbord. (CONTINUED) 
 (laughs) Sam, you're too much. 
 I went to get myself a salad and I started to see all these vegetables, you know how they have all those salads laid out so that when it's time to get to the main course you won't eat too much... that scam to get you filled up so you don't eat too much chicken and beef and all that other stuff. 
 Yeah, yeah... I get the point. So? 
 So I see celery, I see the lettuce, tomatoes, cauliflower... and I think, all these things come out of the ground... they just grow out of the ground. They had corn -- out of the ground... radish -- out of the ground. You say to yourself, how can all these things come out of the ground? You know what I'm talking about? All these things are out of the ground. 
 (not understanding) Yeah. 
 I mean, how can that be? It just happened that way? And I'm not even getting into the fruits... I'm just dealing with vegetables right now. With all those things coming out of the earth, there must be a God. 
 (looking at Sam) I'm not getting the same religious effect that came over you. I don't know why, but I don't feel like running to a church to pray right this second. (CONTINUED) 
 You gotta admit, it's amazing. 
 Yeah, yeah... (he turns away and looks across the room) I don't believe it. See the guy over there? He looks in the direction of BB. 
 That's the son of a bitch who crsahed into my car. Sam looks over to BB. 
 I don't believe it!    Mr. Banana Head is here. 
 What? 
 That crazy guy that banged into my car and smashed my windows in. I don't fucking believe it! I'm gonna get him. 
 I'm gonna get him! Both BB and Tilley weave their way through the crowd to get to one another. In the confusion of all the people, they both go right past one another and then look around for one another. They see that they're in the opposite direction, and end up going towards one another again. Moe and Sam wander over to their guys. (CONTINUED) 
 You got a lot of nerve banging into my car, and you've got a lot of fucking nerve smashing my windows in. 
 What're you talking about?     Why would I want to break your windows? 
 You didn't smash my windows in? 
 I'm a hard-working guy... I don't go around breaking windows. I've got better things to do. 
 You didn't break my windows?! You didn't break my windows?! He pushes Tilley. 
 Push me one more time and I'm gonna have to redefine your face. BB pushes him.     Tilley starts to go for BB and they scuffle about.     Moe and Sam try to pull the guys apart. 
 Come on, let's go outside... let's settle this in the parking lot. 
 Oh, no! You're not gonna get near my car... you're not gonna kick in my headlights again... (beat) ... What am I talking about? I didn't even drive tonight. You wanna duke it? Let's go. They both head out the door. The other tin men follow, and others who have been paying attention to this alter- cation, also follow. CUT TO: 
 (seeing the people gathering around) What is this? What is this crowd here? We're charging admission? 
 Back away... give me some elbow room. 
 (quietly to BB and Tilley) Police! Tilley and BB immediately drop their guards and lean against a car. One cop gets out of the police car and heads into the club, the other cop stays behind in the car. No one knows quite what to do since the policeman is so nearby. 
 (casually leaning against the car; to BB) You're a lucky man... the police showed. 
 We'll see who's the lucky one. He picks up his coat and leaves with Moe. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) Surprise!!! Lights go on again, and we see a group of GIRLS gathered around the cake placed on one of the desks. At the center of the group is ADA, in her late twenties, and very pregnant. 
 I never expected this.   What a lovely cake. 
 #1 Blow out the candles then. Ada blows out the candles, missing a couple, and getting help from one of the other Girls. 
 #2 Nine candles for nine months! Everyone laughs. 
 #3 We'll miss you, Ada... you'd better bring that baby in to visit us. 
 #1 Register him for his social security number. 
 I love ya, Ada, and if you're smart you won't come back. The cake is being passed out, and people are talking -- it has become somewhat of a party atmosphere. Nora turns to her friend, NELLIE. 
 I've just decided... I'm going out with him. (CONTINUED) 
 You're kidding? 
 I have to. I just want to know what it's like to be with someone else. She sips her Coke. 
 Because if what I've got with Tilley is as good as it gets, I just... (she shrugs her shoulders) ... I gotta know. 
 Well, how are you going to manage it? 
 Tilley doesn't get home until at least two in the morning. 
 I hope you know what you're doing ... you speak to some guy at the frozen food section for five minutes, you could jeopardize your whole marriage. 
 Everything I've done in my life has been safe and practical, and where's that gotten me? (she lifts her paper cup) Well, here's to who knows what. They touch their cups. CUT TO: 
 I'm still nervous. 
 Well, I guess that's to be expected. You want me to take you home? 
 No, not right now. 
 Every time I listen to Sinatra, I always remember when I used to work in Atlantic City back in the late 40's... you know, a busboy job... Sinatra used to play at the 500 Club, and we used to take our dates and say, 'Hey, you wanna go and hear Sinatra?' Then we'd just lean on the door of the club in the alley and listen to the music. I think the girls were looking for something a bit more uptown. Nora laughs. 
 I'd go with you and lean against the door. They dance for a bit and look at one another. He leans toward her, holds her tight and kisses her. Then the RECORD STICKS on the words "that's the time"... "that's the time"... "that's the time"... BB slips off one of his loafers, while still embracing Nora, kicks it so that it hits the side of the record table. The RECORD SLIPS a little and continues to play correctly. 
 (she looks at BB) You've got a pretty good aim. 
 I sure do. CUT TO: 
 (into phone) Yeah, he's here... just a minute. 
 Hey, Tilley, somebody wants ya on the phone. Tilley gets up from the table and goes over to the phone. 
 Yeah, this is Tilley... CUT TO: 
 Hey, asshole... here's the ultimate 'fuck you'... I just poked your wife! CUT TO: 
 What are you talking about? CUT TO: 
 She's in my bed right now with a big smile on her face. CUT TO: 
 Well, that's just fine by me... she's a pain in the ass... an albatross around my neck. You're welcome to her... keep her... and may you both rot in hell! Tilley slams the phone down. CUT TO: 
 Is this    a setup? That son of a bitch...    I bet he set me up... I thought    I got him, and he got me. That son    of a bitch! CUT TO: 
 I'm a free man! I'm a free man! He grabs Nora's shoes and throws them out onto the street. Then he goes into the bathroom and piles all of her toiletries in his arms, tosses them into a trash can. Takes a suitcase from a shelf in the bedroom, opens it, throws in the trash can. He clears out her underwear drawers and empties them into the suitcase, closes the suitcase and then throws that out of the window. He's out of breath, exhausted and sweating. He goes down- stairs into the kitchen to get himself a drink. He sees a pair of Nora's slippers under the kitchen table, he picks them up, opens the back door and tosses them outside. Locks the door. He stands there as if a motor is running inside of him. Walks out of the kitchen. 
 (quietly) Oh, my God! She just stands there and tears run down her face. 
 He must have gone crazy... I don't know what happened to him... he must have found out I was with you... I don't know... I don't know what to do. She starts to cry.   She goes to hug BB. 
 Can I stay with you for a day or two? BB puts his arms around Nora. 
 Sure. CUT TO: 
 #1 Hello, this is Gibraltar Aluminum Siding Company, we're taking a survey... 
 #2 ... Would you be interested in our field representative giving you a home demonstration? 
 #3 ... Home demonstration. We will have some factory representatives in your area today as it happens. A voice calls out. 
 (O.S.) Tilley!    Let me see you. Tilley walks over to the coffee machine. 
 Wing, give me a minute to get a cup of coffee here. Tilley passes Sam on the way to the coffee machine. Sam is looking through the sports page of the newspaper, along with Mouse and Gil. 
 What about 'Super Highway' in the seventh... it's paying 7 to 1. Ran well in its last race. Gil looking at the newspaper. 
 'Super Highway'... 
 Four in the fourth... twenty bucks. 
 Who's that? 
 I don't know... it just came to me -- number four in the fourth. (CONTINUED) 
 (looking at Tilley) Number four in the fourth -- 'Rider's Revenge' -- 60 to 1, never been in the money. Nice pick, Tilley. Why don't you just throw the twenty dollars in the trash can right now. 
 'Rider's Revenge'... I like that name. I've gotta go and see Wing. (a little pissed off) Look, we can be scientific from now to doomsday, but we gotta be gutsy and go for the big one. Tilley goes through the door into Wing's office. 
 Ah!    Ah! He jumps back, and puts his coffee down on a desk, and wipes his hand on the back of his jacket. 
 What's up, Wing? 
 What do ya mean? They wouldn't clear the loan? (CONTINUED) 
 What's wrong with this world? There are sick people out there! Thievin' son of a bitch like that takes up my time... cuts into the amount of hours I have available to deal with other people interested in my wares! There's no fucking sympathy for the working man in this country. WING They don't make our job easy, Tilley. 
 (lamenting) Wing, it was such a beautiful thing... you shoulda seen how I worked. Like a magician... 'this job is free'! It was my best... my best! There's no fucking justice in this world... there ain't no justice. Tilley goes to pick up his coffee off the desk. 
 What section? WING Take a look at this. He hands the newspaper to Tilley. 
 (reading) 'Home Improvement Commission... Hearings begin today..." Is this McCarthyism? What are they gonna see? If there are any communists? (CONTINUED) 
 Now,  when you made your initial sales  pitch, did you indicate that  you would be giving free storm  windows with the job? 
 Free storm windows? 
 Yes. That you would provide a free set of storm windows with the sale of aluminum siding. 
 No, sir. I wouldn't be able to make any money if I was giving away storm windows. My cost of a storm window is somewhere like... (CONTINUED) 
 (cutting him off) The point being that you had no intention of giving away the storm windows. 
 (O.S.) The storm windows, as I can recall, was not an issue. I mentioned that I thought the storm windows would cut down on their heating bill, and that they would obviously enhance the look of the house with the aluminum siding work we were going to do. 
 (O.S.) So, you weren't dangling a free set of storm windows as a come-on to selling them the aluminum siding job? Because it says here, and I'm reading from a statement from Mr. Tabaleri... 
 (to BB) What do ya make of all this? 
 It's the future, Moe... it's the future. 
 (O.S.) 'It was my understanding that the storm windows were included in the price of the sale.' CUT TO: 
 Where do you think they're getting this information from? (CONTINUED) 
 I dunno... looks like any tin man gets in that hot seat, then he's had it. 
 Then they can take your license forever... it don't seem fair. They walk by a Volkswagen "beetle" car that's parked in front of BB's Cadillac. BB stops and looks at it. 
 Boy, I tell ya, I bet you could sell a ton of these things. 
 That?   Too silly-looking. BB looks at the car for a few more seconds, then goes to get into his car. 
 Ever see a dealership? 
 No. 
 Interesting. They get in the car and drive off. CUT TO: 
 - Sitting at a table. Sam is studying the racing form, Tilley is studying the menu. (CONTINUED) 
 I keep racking my brain. I gotta find a way to really get even with this guy. It isn't enough to wreck his car... even breaking into his house and messing it up or something, that don't have enough impact. I mean, the man poked my wife! I gotta come up with something ingenious... something ingenious. Sam sees a WAITER approaching and indicates to Tilley to get off the subject. Waiter arrives at their table. 
 (to Tilley) So, what do ya think? 
 I think I'll take some meatloaf. 
 (writes on check) Meatloaf. 
 No, I think I'll have some fish. No, no... fish doesn't fill you up. Meatloaf. He closes the menu. 
 So, it's meatloaf? 
 (to Tilley) What do you think, 'Sally's pride' in the second? (to Waiter) Get me a Bloody Mary. 
 (to Sam) Anything other than the Bloody Mary? 
 (to Sam) What number is Sally's Pride? (CONTINUED) 
 Six. (to Waiter) No, I don't like to eat until the third race. Waiter walks off. 
 (putting his hand to his forehead) Six... six... six... six. (beat) I'm thinking one. Whose one? 
 Mr. Motor. 
 Then that's it, I'm going with one. 
 Tilley, this is insane. You're picking horses because you think you're clairvoyant or something. 
 Sam, I'm  not doing too well by checking  the stats, so why not. I put my  hand to my forehead, I see a one  -- Mr. Motor in the second...  twenty bucks. They both look toward the track, the horses race to the finish line. Number nine streaks across the finish line. 
 Hallihan's Daughter. 
 (laughing) I got it... I got it... He picks up the racing form. 
 Three to one... hundred and sixty smackers. (laughs) Hand to the forehead! Hand to the forehead! (CONTINUED) 
 You're not exactly talking about a long shot. Mr. Motor, for instance, is coming off at 50 to 1. Tilley taps his forehead, with his eyes closed. 
 Third race, I see a six... I see a three. I don't think the verdict's in on that one yet. Tilley stands up and is going through his money and race tickets. 
 Wing paid a hundred on number five, he loses, I got hundred and forty... next race I'll lay down the bet. (beat) What you taking in this   race? 
 Thrifty's Delight -- number four -- 20 bucks. 
 You take Thrifty's Delight -- 20 bucks, I got 20 on Mr. Motor, Wing's got a hundred on Night Fire. What's the odds on Night Fire? 
 Twenty to one. 
 I don't see Night Fire winning. Fuck it, I'm not gonna even place the bet... I just made a hundred bucks. 
 What are you, crazy?   What happens if he wins? 
 He's not gonna win... I feel it. (CONTINUED) 
 Hey, Wing, we're sitting just off the left of the entrance. I'm gonna lay down your bet right now. See you in a minute. You lost the first race, in case you don't know. CUT TO: 
 I tell you something, she's getting on my nerves. 
 Who, Nora? 
 Yeah, yeah... who else is it gonna be... 'who, Nora"!... who else is there? (beat) The whole idea of being with a girl on consecutive nights is new to me. It's one thing when they're with you for a night, but when they live with ya, it's stretching the point. They got a lot of things they bring with them... you go to the bathroom you see 'things' you never saw before. 
 So, what's the todo? (CONTINUED) 
 Well, they move your stuff around and it's not where it used to be... I'm not used to that. 
 You mean all this time you've never lived with a girl? 
 What?! Did we just meet? How long we been partners? No, I've never lived with a girl! 
 Boy, oh boy! Did you wake up on the wrong side of the bed today? 
 Yes, I did. I came in  last night, she was sleeping on my side of the bed. In my life I  never got out of bed on the left side... in my life, never from the left. (beat; he looks out of the car window) I got close once up in the Catskills. I met this  girl, Dorian. For a week we  were together, but it wasn't the same because she always went to her room to change and do all that stuff. She didn't  have things in my room. 
 All this 'cos I'm trying to get even with some guy. (beat) You know what? I think I got to see her and put an end to this. CUT TO: 
 (calling across to Nora at the next desk) Is that him? 
 (looks up and and BB wandering around) Yes. (she smiles and yells) Bill! BB turns towards Nora. Nora waves to him, happily, with a twinkle in her eye. BB feels conspicuous -- people are looking at him. He gives a little wave. 
 (softly) Yeah. CUT TO: 
 I'm glad you stopped by.     This is a real surprise. 
 Listen, I got a problem. 
 Oh.    How can I help? 
 Um... er... (realizing    that she didn't quite get    the point) Well, the problem    is... like... is like... eh, you    know... you're the problem. (CONTINUED) 
 (quietly, obviously really taken with him) Really. How so? 
 There's things that are bothering me. 
 Like what? 
 You know... things. 
 Things? 
 You know, like things that come up... stuff... like... you know, annoyances. 
 Annoyances? 
 Hard to explain... very hard. 
 Well, try. 
 As an example... I came home last night, I get undressed, and I realize you're sleeping on my side of the bed. I've always slept on that side... it's something I've always done. 
 Then why didn't you just nudge me a bit and tell me to go and sleep on the other side? 
 I didn't want to wake you up... I thought you might think it was kind of stupid or something. 
 Well, that's easily changed. (CONTINUED) 
 But there are other things... bigger things. But I realize just talking about it, they all sound petty and silly. 
 Listen, if you think all of this is going too fast, maybe I should move out. Is that what you want, Bill? BB looks around, very uncomfortable, and he shrugs. 
 I really care for you, but if you think it's best. (beat) I don't want to make you unhappy. After a long beat. 
 I don't think we've got to take drastic action. Nora smiles. 
 Thought I'd come by and get things off my chest... talk it out. (beat) Listen, I'm going over to Pimlico... catch the seventh race... wanna come? 
 I can't get away from work. 
 I know. He goes to walk away, then turns back and gives her a quick kiss. He turns and walks away. Nora watches him as he walks by the rows and rows of secretaries and clerks. CUT TO: 
 (very excited and animated) We're taking a thirty-to-one shot... number eight... come on number eight... 'Streamers...' come on, you sucker! CUT TO: 
 Thirty-to-one... a hundred bucks on you, number eight. There's a guy up here who put a hundred on ya. Come on... come on... come on, baby... come on, baby! 
 Nooooooo! (CONTINUED) 
 (smiling) Way to go... Southern Belle. Moe tears up his ticket. 
 Should have bet with me, Moe. CUT TO: 
 That was your horse, Wing? 
 Of course. Wing goes to look at form. WING (to Tilley) I'm gonna go with the favorite in this one -- Fordnee Lane. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 WING   (CONT'D) I tell you what, I    won sixteen plus on the other    race, from those winnings you    can bet me eight hundred. 
 Eight hundred? WING Yeah... I wanna bet eight hundred on Fordnee Lane. 
 (feeling uncom- fortable) Fordnee lane -- eight hundred. Sam is looking at Tilley knowing that he's really in a jam. 
 Eight hundred. WING (calling to Waiter) Waiter, can you get me a cup of coffee? Tilley looks over to Sam, with panic on his face.    Wing turns back to Tilley and Sam. WING You guys want anything else? 
 (nods "no") Er... hum... er... hey, Wing... I tell you, I got a problem. WING What is it? 
 It's the eight hundred on Fordnee Lane. I haven't got it. WING No, you got it wrong. You take it from the sixteen plus I won... the eight hundred. (CONTINUED) 
 I haven't got the winnings. WING (angry) What do ya mean, you don't have my winnings? 
 Wing, it was the craziest thing... I didn't want to mention it earlier because it was so nuts... it was the craziest thing. WING What? 
 I don't know how to even tell you this without being embarrassed for myself. It was an accident... it's like one of those things out of the blue... it's crazy... you can't explain it... it happens. WING (to Sam) Sam, what is he talking about? 
 (quietly) He had an accident of some sort. 
 It happens... I don't know how... I don't know how to explain. It's too crazy, I swear to God, Wing. WING Wait a minute... you're telling me that I didn't win the last race? 
 You won, Wing... you won, it's just that you're not getting any money... it was a fluke. I swear, I don't know how it could have happened. A ten-year-old couldn't have made the mistake I made... I don't know, I swear. (CONTINUED) 
 If there was some way I could make it up, believe me, I would, because you know where I stand. There's a beat while Wing just looks at Tilley. 
 You know where I stand, Wing. If there was any way, believe me, I'd make it up. I'd give you thirty percent of what you didn't get because it was a fluke... I'm willing to make some kind of retribution. WING You just pocketed the God damned money... you just took my money and slipped it into your God damned pocket, didn't you? 
 No. I'd split fifty-fifty with you, that's how badly I feel under the circumstances. WING You get this straight, you son of a bitch, you owe me sixteen plus... I want sixteen plus. 
 Am I trying to shirk my responsibility? That's not the way I see it... it was a fluke, a crazy thing that happened, but I stand behind my honor on this... put it on my tab. WING (to Sam) What  the hell is wrong with him? What  the hell is wrong with him? He's  stealing money from me... what  the hell is wrong with him? Can  you tell me? (CONTINUED) 
 I don't know the whole story. WING You work with him, Sam... for Christ sake... Wing is totally frustrated. 
 What do you mean, wrong? It was a fluke... it was an accident. I don't know what the hell went wrong. It was a one-in-a-million thing that happened to me when I went to place that bet. I'm trying to do what I can. WING (shaking his head) Tilley, what the hell happened to you? CUT TO: 
 Why didn't you at least give him the six hundred that you pocketed from the six races he lost? 
 Fuck him! It's on my tab. At least I've got six hundred in my pocket right now. It's like another loan. Sam, you got to think about today. Today, I got six hundred bucks in my pocket. You know what I'm saying? 
 Yeah. (CONTINUED) 
 It's like some guy trying to sell me life insurance. You think I'm gonna take some money out of my pocket to give to some jerk so that somebody can take it when I'm dead? No, Sam, you gotta live for today. I'm gonna live as good as I can every day. You know what I'm saying? As Sam and Tilley walk towards Tilley's Cadillac, BB and Moe are walking to BB's Cadillac parked close to Tilley's car. They see each other. 
 (yelling to BB) Hey, Mr. Marengay went to the track! 
 Did you bother to bet, or did you just hand your money to the tellers? 
 (laughing) The sarcasm's killing me. (beat) I thought you were looking to get even. 
 Who's your accountant, mister, 'cos I think you're down in the debit side. 
 Who's stuck with my wife.   You or me? He laughs. 
 You want me to believe that you were setting me up with your wife as some kind of decoy? 
 Decoy is the word! There's a long beat as the two guys eye one another. Then, almost in a soft apologetic manner, BB speaks. (CONTINUED) 
 Okay then, you win. gets into his car. 
 I win? (to Sam) That guy would never let me win. He must be setting me up. The son of a bitch is setting me up, Sam. 
 For crying out loud, why don't you just leave it at that... you win. 
 I couldn't have won. (beat) I smell a rat. BB's car pulls away.    Tilley and Sam watch him go. CUT TO: 
 BB, I think you're getting a little humility in your blood. 
 If getting Nora is part of losing, Thank God I didn't win. CUT TO: 
 This is good, Stan... nice work. Stanley nods. 
 Fossey says it should go down very well with the city council. Could help us appropriate more funds. This goes a long way to establish our credibility in what we're trying to do. We hear a LOUD, SAWING noise and HAMMERING echoing through the warehouse throughout this scene. 
 There's a lot more where this came from. 
 You know what I think you should do now. Why don't you pull some files... some files that were completed, others that went unsold, and I'll have somebody run it down, talk to the customers and get some statements. 
 Pulling files is another thing. That might not be easy. 
 To sneak a few here and there when you can. 
 I'll see. 
 I think that might be good. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) What do you think if we made this one of our factory showcase houses? 
 (O.S.) What's that? 
 (O.S.) It's a good location... get a lot of traffic on this street. CUT TO: 
 SHUBNER (MAN) What does that mean, Mr. Gable? 
 You know what I do, Alan? I pick certain houses that are strategically located, we put up the aluminum siding, and for every referral, for every person who sees this quality job that we do... sees how beautiful it is... I give you two hundred dollars. 
 Two hundred dollars? 
 That's right. God knows how many homes we could sell by people passing this house. It's perfectly placed for that. (taking out his wallet) Alan, this is how confident I feel that this house will drum up business for me. He peels off four hundred dollars and hands the money to Shubner. (CONTINUED) 
 Four hundred dollars... I'm giving you commission on two house referrals before I put a panel on the side of your house... that's how confident I feel. 
 You think that many people are going to... 
 (interrupting Shubner) I'm certain of it. I'm not giving away four hundred dollars for my health... I'm a businessman, and I'm a good businessman. This is good business for me. I'm giving it away 'cos I believe in this house, believe that it will refer me to other jobs which means money in my pocket, which means money in your pocket. 
 You got a deal, Mr. Gable. BB smiles.   Suddenly Moe winces in pain. 
 Something wrong, sir? Moe collapses to the floor. CUT TO: 
 I finally got hold of May... she was over your sister's. 
 (breathing heavily) Oh, I forgot. 
 She'll be down here shortly. (CONTINUED) 
 BB, I don't have any insurance. If I die, May's got nothing... nothing... nothing for Leonard. The only money I've got is in my pocket. That's all I got. 
 Just take it easy, Moe... rest. 
 Did they sign?     Did they sign? 
 Don't worry about it now. 
 Goddamn it, BB! Did you sign them? 
 Don't worry... don't worry.     I'll take care of it tomorrow. 
 Goddamn, my chest hurts. (beat) I always taught you, BB, never walk out of a place without a signed contract. Somebody's word ain't spit. 
 They'll sign, Moe.    Don't worry, they'll sign. 
 This is kind of   new to me, but I thought I better   call and tell you I'm gonna be   late... maybe two or three. I    never had anyone there to   call before, but I thought I   should call, you know. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Why? Do you think you have some obligation? 
 I dunno... I thought I'd better call, that's all. 
 (V.O.) Well, I'm glad you did. 
 I don't know what's gonna happen to Moe. 
 (V.O.) Well, I hope he's okay. (beat) I'll see you when you get in. She gives BB a kiss on the phone. 
 (looks at the receiver) Yeah. He hangs up the phone and walks to a room opposite. He opens the door and stands in the doorway looking at Moe who is lying beneath an oxygen tent. CUT TO: 
 Let me see what the damage is. (he reaches for the bill, hums as he reads) Babum... babum... babum... babum... He hands the bill to Mouse. 
 Mouse, figure it out, will ya? 
 Why don't we just split it five ways? (CONTINUED) 
 No way! I didn't eat anything, so why should I pay for Mouse... he eats like an animal. 
 Well, sometimes you'll eat more than he does, and it'll even out. 
 No way! He's a pig! He always eats more than anyone else. Why should I pay for his food? 
 What're you talking about? Today I happened to have eggs and flapjacks, some cantalope, some juice and then another juice. 
 Like an animal! Like an animal! 
 But yesterday, what did I have? 
 What did he have? (turning to Sam) Sam, what did he have? 
 Let me get out my notebook. How the fuck do I know what he had? 
 Well I don't remember what he had. Gil, what did he have? 
 Pancakes? 
 No. Through the diner window we see Nora's car pull up and park outside the diner. 
 (to Mouse) Then what did you have? 
 Guess. (CONTINUED) 
 What is this, a quiz show? We don't know what you had. What did you have? 
 I had very little. 
 Very little!! You eat like an animal! It couldn't have been very little. 
 I didn't have that much... doesn't anybody remember? 
 We don't remember, I don't know why. 
 I could have sworn he had pancakes. 
 He said he didn't have pancakes. 
 I'll give you a clue... maple syrup was used. 
 I don't give a shit. 
 French toast. 
 French toast?    He had more than French toast. 
 Yes, but not a lot more. We hear further RAPPING on the window. 
 I don't give a damn... it's split five ways. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Tilley) Your wife's knocking on the window here. Tilley looks to the window, acknowledges Nora and points to the far end of the diner, she nods and starts walking across the front of the diner to the door. 
 Was not long ago you never would have seen a woman in here. 
 You don't have to tell me. How many nights did you drop me off and come up here all the time? 
 I know. I was just trying to be congenial... you know, start a conversation off, on a nice kind of light level, you know. So, what's the scoop, Nora? 
 Well you know, I think we really should get divorced. 
 Makes sense.   You want some more coffee? 
 Yeah, I'll have some. 
 (shouting to waitress) Florence, some coffee here. (to Nora) It's for the best. (beat) You know, we were kind of fooling ourselves, weren't we? (CONTINUED) 
 Yes, it went wrong somewhere along the line -- I don't know where though. 
 Yes, something went wrong... I don't know. Florence walks over and pours coffee for Tilley and Nora, then walks away. 
 So you like this guy? 
 Yeah, I like him. 
 All in all I guess it'll all work out for the best. 
 I'm glad you feel that way. 
 Yeah, can you figure it out? A guy bangs into my car, thinks I did him in, tries to get even with me by stealing my wife, you two people fall in love... can you figure that out? 
 What? 
 You telling me you didn't know this was the guy? 
 This was that guy? 
 Yeah, I told you I ran into another tin man. 
 He didn't tell me he was a tin man... he told me he sold baby pictures. (CONTINUED) 
 It's your life. All I know is this guy has a bent weather vane. 
 Oh, God!   Not another tin man. CUT TO: 
 #1 Good afternoon, this is Superior Aluminum Siding. We're going to have... 
 #2 ... a salesman in your area today... BB is sitting in a chair across from Looney. 
 Beeb, why don't you let Stanley work with you. I'm off to Florida at the end of the week for some sun and fun. Let Stanley work with you, and when I get back, we'll see how Moe's doing. 
 I don't know. To be honest with you, I think I'd rather work alone ... he's too green. Is he a pain in the ass? 
 No. He don't talk much; he's a good listener, so he can't really get on your nerves. He's a lousy pool player and he can't play cards for shit, but... 
 (interrupting) So what good is he? (CONTINUED) 
 Studious type... takes a lot of notes. 
 (smiles) If this is a sales pitch, I think you got to work a little harder 'cos I don't think you've got good product. CUT TO: 
 What are you, crazy?! Nora drives the car forward and then backwards again almost running down. She rolls down the window (auto- matically) so that she can yell. 
 You're a goddamn tin man! Then she backs the car up.      BB tries to go around the front of the car. 
 Wait a minute!     Wait a minute! Nora starts to move the car towards him. He moves away, and her car smashes into the side of his car. She presses the button to the window and rolls it down just a shade. 
 You wanted to win me just to get even with my husband... screw you! She rolls up the window, floors the car, and drives away. (CONTINUED) 
 (to BB) I think you ought to get rid of this car... it's bad luck. Nora's CAR SCREECHES around the corner. 
 Is that the guy again? 
 No, it's his wife. 
 There's some kind of sickness that runs in that family. CUT TO: 
 'Day-O! da,da,da,da,day... daylight come and he wanna go home...' 
 (to Gil) Why can't they get rid of that fucking record? It's not a hit anymore... nobody cares about this song anymore... it's history. Mouse continue singing in the background. 
 'Day-O!   da,da,da,da,day...' 
 We can always smash the juke box, or break in and steal the record. (CONTINUED) 
 (lining up a shot) He's getting on my nerves. The guy eats like an animal, and sings like an asshole. 
 Maybe it's me, but I'm beginning to like it. Tilley hits the ball and sinks the shot. 
 (happily) Yes, sir... yes, sir! 
 (to Tilley) Take a look at this crap. 
 IRS? They're not gonna leave me alone! 
 Home Improvement Commission. With those words there's a genuine moment of concern from all of the tin men -- even Mouse stops singing. Tilley picks up the envelope and pulls out the letter. 
 We've got to appear? 
 I think that's the gist of what they're saying. Gil looks over Tilley's shoulder at the letter.    Mouse comes over. 
 Holy Christ! 
 Can't we just ignore it? How do they know we got the letter. (CONTINUED) 
 It's certified. 
 What do you think, Sam? 
 I dunno... I don't know what they've got. 
 Why is this happening? Am I paranoid or something? I mean, why is this happening? The government is after me... the state is after me... Mr. Marengay ... somebody is always after me. What the hell's going on here? I'm just this guy. What's the big deal? They can't get along without me? The government can't operate unless they've got Tilley's money... the Commission's after my job! This shit's driving me insane! All the lying, thieving, stealing corporations in this world, and the IRS takes the time to come for me? There's billions of dollars out there but they've got to come and get Tilley's four thousand dollars! (turning to Mouse) Turn off the fucking Belafonte song now, or I'm gonna break the goddamn machine!! 
 Come on, Beeb, let's dance. 
 Not tonight, Ruthie, my dancing shoes are on holiday. 
 You sure? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm more than sure. Ruthie moves off. takes a shot of whiskey and downs it, and then drinks some beer. 
 Who was the best you ever saw? 
 Best I ever saw?   Best tin man I ever saw? He holds up his shot glass towards the bartender, and the bartender fills it up. 
 Harry Apel... Dandy Flynn... those guys had good lines, but they burned themselves out too fast. Best? Moe's the best... the best there ever was. If he's in the door, he's got a sale. The best closer ever. 
 What's some of the hustles he used to pull? BB downs another shot glass of whisky. 
 God damn Nora... God damn Nora! I'm trying to adjust... I'm putting up with things I never put up with in my life. I mean, give me a break... give me a break, woman. Stanely wants to get back to the topic of best tin man. 
 (making light) So, what are a couple of things you and Moe have done? 
 (still on the subject of Nora) It was getting to be real pleasant ... figure that. (long beat) More than pleasant. To hell with her! (CONTINUED) 
 How come Moe's so good?   Why do you think, huh? 
 Great man, Moe. Great man. holds out his glass again to the bartender who refills it. downs the shot and drinks more beer. 
 I don't know why they're so irrational... chicks. I dunno. I think it's because air gets inside 'em. (beat) She probably went back home, to her husband. (looks at his watch) Eleven-thirty... he wouldn't be home yet. (takes out a $10 bill from his wallet) This outght to cover it, Stanley. He puts the $10 bill down on the bar and walks out of the club. CUT TO: 
 They got no right. You know what I'm saying, Sam? They've got no right. Tilley takes a drink from a pint of whisky he has open. (CONTINUED) 
 They've got nothing concrete against us, because if it's just hearsay stuff, it's neither here nor there. 
 (looking around) Where's my car? What happened to my car? 
 It's better I drop you off. 
 Yeah, it's better. CUT TO: 
 He ain't here. He gets out of the car and looks around the street some more. He stumbles up to a couple of parked cars, look- ing for Nora's car. He falls into some trash cans in front of the house. CUT TO: 
 I knew I    could smell a rat! The son of a    bitch is coming for me... the son    of a bitch never wants to leave me    alone! Tilley walks over to the night table, opens the drawer and pulls out a revolver. CUT TO: 
 (quietly) You   want to rob my God damn house? I'm   gonna make it easy for you. (unlocks the door and leaves it ajar) Come   and rob Tilley... come on... take   everything he's got. CUT TO: 
 Hel... Before he can finish the word "Hello," Tilley hits him hard in the head with the butt of the gun. falls to the ground unconscious. CUT TO: 
 (to BB) You're a sick man! You smash my car, you steal my wife, and now you come to rob me! You're one demented human being. BB tries to focus on Tilley. 
 I'm going to call the police and send you to jail... but I'm going to humiliate you first. Tilley throws an egg at BB and hits him in the head.     BB is groggy and confused and still drunk. 
 What're you doing? 
 What do ya want to break into my house for? This ain't the fucking Rockefeller mansion! There ain't thirty-eight television sets here. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TILLEY (CONT'D) They ain't saying 'Nelson, I think we've had a break-in... count the sets to see how many we've got left.' There ain't tons of jewelry hanging out of drawers... it ain't like I don't know which watch to put on, I got so many. I'm a working man, trying to make an honest living. What fucking morality you got, asshole?!! Tilley throws another egg at BB and hits him in the head again. Egg yolk drips down BB's face. He tries to get off the floor, but can't. 
 You're the craziest human being on the face of this earth! Tilley, getting ready with another egg. 
 What else do you want from me? Huh? What else?! I've got enough problems with the I.R.S. busting my balls and the Home Improvement Commission bullshit to contend with. I don't need aggravation from you. 
 (still trying to get up; wiping his face) Nobody does this to me and lives! Nobody! 
 (throws an egg) How do ya like your eggs? Over easy? (picks up a tomato) Side of tomatoes? He throws a tomato. 
 You're going to rue the day you ran into my car. This ain't the end... this is just the beginning. Tilley throws another egg. CUT TO: 
 A guy breaks into my house and I'm being charged with assault? It makes no sense... 
 (with pencil and paper) Let's get it down right. The guy broke into your house, you hit him in the head with a gun, went to the refrigerator, took out eggs and tomatoes and threw them at him. 
 I was defending myself... he was stealing from me. 
 It doesn't sound like defense to me. 
 I wanted to humiliate the guy. Here I am, out busting my ass all day making a decent living, I come home, and some schmuck is trying to steal from me. 
 So you hit him with a gun, and pelted him with eggs and tomatoes? 
 If I had some soup I would have thrown soup at him... is there any law you can't throw eggs? 
 Mr. Babowski claims he didn't break into your house. 
 What did I do? Invite him in so that I could throw eggs at him? (CONTINUED) 
 Maybe Mr. Babowski intended to break into your house, but these circumstances of the guy being pelted with eggs and tomatoes is something we need to look into. Tilley shrugs his shoulders. 
 He's lucky that he didn't rob me last week, 'cos then my wife was living at home and we had all kinds of things in the fridge... I could have thrown barley soup, pumpkin pie, candied yams... yeah, he got off light. CUT TO: 
 (to Bagel) I can't believe it, the man throws eggs at me and now I'm gonna have breakfast with him. 
 His partner says maybe the two of you can sit down and come to some kind of settlement. CUT TO: 
 What am I supposed to say to him? The man has been a pain in the ass since the day he rammed into my car. (CONTINUED) 
 Just air your differences and we'll put an end to this. CUT TO: 
 as they start to pull out of the parking lot. CUT TO: 
 (looks up from his menu) I tell you what... I'll drop the charges against you, and we can wipe the slate clean. 
 I appreciate it. 
 See how quickly you can clear it up? 
 But I don't understand how the slate gets wiped clean when he breaks into my house and I'm the one charged. 
 I told you, I wasn't breaking into your house. I was looking for your wife. 
 All right... all right... I'm too tired... the slate's clean... the slate's clean. The WAITRESS approaches. (CONTINUED) 
 What will you have? 
 Couple of eggs over,   some hash browns, some toast --   toasted dark... butter on the   side, large grapefruit juice and   some coffee. The Waitress writes his order. 
 On second thought, instead of the eggs over, if I ordered soft boiled eggs do you take them out of the shell or leave them in the shells? We can see that BB is getting a little irritable. 
 We leave them in the shell. 
 I don't like them that way because they get hot in the hand and it's hard to scoop the stuff out... it's not good... and you get little bits of shell in there and it doesn't taste good. 
 Why don't you just order some scrambled eggs and be done with it... all right? 
 If I'm going to order, at least I ought to be content with my food. 
 I'm getting a little hungry... I've got a headache as it is. Just order some eggs so some other people can have something to eat before the lunch trade comes in. 
 (looks to Sam) Why do I need a guy telling me what I should or shouldn't eat? (CONTINUED) 
 This is not a four-star restaurant ... we're not having a gourmet meal... we're ordering breakfast, for Christ sake! 
 It so happens I haven't been to this restaurant before. I don't know how they do their eggs... if they're over easy and they're gooey, I'm not happy with it... and I'm not happy if the soft boiled eggs are left in the shell... 
 (to Waitress, cutting Tilley off) Can I have some French toast and a cup of coffee? (to Bagel) Bagel, what do you want? 
 Hey! I'm ordering here. At least you can have the courtesy to let a man order his breakfast. 
 (to Waitress; ignoring Tilley) French toast and a cup of coffee. 
 (to Sam) Sam, this guy gets on my nerves... from day one! I knew it then and I know it now. Tilley stands up from the table and starts to leave. 
 I'm back to pressing charges against you! Tilley turns and is face-to-face with. 
 You want to play that way? This game ain't over, mister... it ain't over... (CONTINUED) 
 All right, you want to finish it now? You want to finish it right now? I'm ready... I'm ready now! 
 You're ready?! You're ready, that's what you're saying?! You're ready now?! I have to be intimidated... I have to be brought here to be intimidated... 
 I can't stand it any longer. You're driving me out of my mind. lunges for Tilley across the table, Sam and Bagel try to intervene -- the Waitress doesn't know what to do. 
 Come on, guys... take it easy... take it easy. 
 Get the people with the straitjackets... this man is out of control. Tilley and BB pull at one another. 
 We're gonna finish it... we're gonna finish it. 
 (to Tilley) Come on, let's get out of here. Sam ushers Tilley to the door. 
 I'm not finished with him, Sam. (to BB) You heard me... I'm not finished with you, mister. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Waitress) So, I'm having French toast and coffee. (to Bagel) Bagel? CUT TO: 
 Moe, when you decided to marry May, how did you know? 
 Know what? 
 How did ya know? 
 You mean to make up my mind to marry her? 
 Yeah.     How did ya know? 
 (suddenly angry) This Nora is a pain in the ass, Moe... a pain in the ass. It's worse now than when she used to be around. Moe smiles. 
 You wanna hear something? The other night at the Corral Club, I turned down a dance. (CONTINUED) 
 You turned down a dance? 
 What's the odds on that? You think you can come up with odds on that one? 
 Hundred to one BB don't dance... a hundred to one against. There's a beat. 
 I'm getting out of the business, BB... I've got nothing for all this. 
 Lot of good times, Moe. 
 A lot of good times, but I can't live off the good times. (beat) You know, my brother-in-law has offered me a job at Hess Shoes. I think maybe I should do it. You get there in the morning, you come home at night... you get health benefits... I get to be assistant manager. 
 That's it, Moe? You're gonna spend the day measuring people's feet? 'You're an "E" fit... you're a "D" wide... you got a high arch... I'll show you something in an alligator... something with a wing tip...' How can you talk about that all day long? (beat) Moe, you're the best tin man there ever was. Nobody's a better closer. 
 It's over, BB... it's over. (CONTINUED) 
 So, May's happy about this Hess Shoe thing, heh? 
 To say the least. CUT TO: 
 You know, when I saw 'Bonanza' the other day, something occurred to me. There's those three guys living on the Ponderosa and you never hear them say anything about wanting to get laid. You never hear Hoss turn to Little Joe and say 'I had such a hard-on when I woke up this morning.' You know ... they never talk about broads ... nothing. Ya never hear Little Joe say 'Hey, Hoss, I went into Virginia City and saw a girl with the greatest ass I ever saw in my life.' Ya just see 'em walking around the Ponderosa saying, 'Yes, Pa,' and 'Where's Little Joe?' Nothing about broads. I don't think I'm being too picky... at least once if they talked about getting horny. I don't care if you're living on the Ponderosa or right here in Baltimore, guys talk about getting laid. (beat) I'm beginning to think that show doesn't have too much realism. What do you think, Tilley? 
 Sam, I can't concentrate on 'Bonanza' shit... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TILLEY (CONT'D) I've got too much on my brain, what with that asshole and the Home Improvement Commission, I don't want to have to worry about whether Little Joe got laid last night. (beat) Let's go and eat something. 
 Yeah, we'll go and have some lunch at the smorgasbord. CUT TO: 
 (very quietly) God, if you're responsible for all the stuff down here, maybe you got a moment's attention for me. (beat) Between the I.R.S., this Home Improvement Commission and Mr. Marengay, I got it up to here with this bullshit. To be frank with you, I'm in the toilet here. If you can see your way... 
 Listen, I'm praying here... go around. 
 I wanted to get some of the salad. 
 It's out of order... go around. He signals for her to walk around him.   The Woman looks at him and moves down the line. (CONTINUED) 
 (looking up to ceiling) Do what you can, all right?    I appreciate it. Amen. Tilley helps himself to some salad. CUT TO: 
 Nora Tilley, please. We hear a WOMAN'S VOICE on the other end of the phone. 
 (V.O.) What department is she with? 
 She's with Social Security. 
 (V.O.) Which department is Social Security? 
 I dunno... she's there somewhere ... yeah, on the third floor... she's got a desk towards the back. 
 (V.O.) Just a moment... checking. 
 In the b.g. Stanley has gone over to a filing cabinet and is starting to look through the files. Cheese wanders over to him. 
 Stanley, can I help you look for something? 
 No, I'm just making myself busy. 
 Well, I wouldn't do that. Bagel don't like nobody looking at the files. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Mrs. Tilley. 
 Nora, this is. The PHONE goes DEAD.   reluctantly puts the receiver down. CUT TO: 
 (into microphone to Tilley & Sam) Didn't you approach Mr. Boloshevski August 18, 1961, while he was cutting his front lawn and tell him that his house had been selected, as one of only 16 homes in the state of Maryland, for a free aluminum siding job? 
 What's the name again? 
 Boloshevski. 
 Doesn't ring a bell. (to Sam) Sam, does it ring a bell to you? 
 (leans into microphone) It doesn't ring a bell to me either, sir. 
 Didn't you suggest that for a nominal labor charge, he would receive over five thousand dollars' worth of aluminum siding? (CONTINUED) 
 That's an awful lot for nothing. Doesn't sound like good business to me. 
 Mr. Boloshevski was ultimately charged twenty-four hundred dollars for labor, which according to our figures is about the average cost of an aluminum siding job. 
 (leans into the microphone) I don't get the point of this. 
 Twenty-four hundred dollars that you charged for labor, is the same as if Mr. Boloshevski had purchased the aluminum siding and had the labor done. 
 Maybe I'm missing the point here, but if he paid twenty-four hundred, which is the cost of the job, I can't see anything wrong with that. I don't know the guy, but I don't quite get the problem. 
 What we're getting at here... what we're trying to stress, is that the job was sold under false terms. The man didn't win any award... he was not getting aluminum siding at a special price. A clear case of deception was involved here. 
 (to Sam) What's he talking about? The man got the job for twenty-four hundred dollars, and that's what it costs in aluminum siding. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TILLEY (CONT'D) (leans into microphone) Um... I don't know... we have no recollection of this particular job, but I don't know if this is deception. Look, if you work in a clothing store, some guy tries on a suit, it looks like shit, but you tell him it looks wonderful. The guy's standing there looking like a sack of shit, the salesman says what a great suit and the man buys it. That's deception as far as I can see, but I don't understand the deceptiveness that you say we're responsible for... if I make myself clear. 
 (leaning into the microphone) I'd go along with that as well. 
 What we're trying to establish are the principles that have been laid down as part of the Home Improvement code of ethics... that you cannot mislead someone intentionally, and I think that's the principle that applies to this. 
 Did somebody put a gun to this guy's head and make him spend twenty-four hundred dollars? I don't get the point here. I don't know the specifics of this case, not being privy to all the information, but all I can say is this guy got a fair price for a fair job. Another commissioner, BUD DELANEY, takes the microphone. 
 (to Tilley) Do you know Mr. and Mrs. Rayburn of 156 Aberdeen Avenue, Essex? (CONTINUED) 
 (looks to Sam and shrugs his shoulders; then into mike) I think you'd have to familiarize me. 
 The couple purchased twenty-eight hundred dollars' worth of aluminum siding and the two of you were the salesmen on record. They say, and I quote here, 'that they would have received one hundred and fifty dollars per home for every person in the neighborhood who saw their house and decided to buy aluminum siding.' (looking up from paper) Is that true? 
 It sounds right. 
 Are you aware that, according to the Home Improvement code, you are not allowed to exceed a twenty dollar limit in incentives? 
 (shrugs his shoulders) We wanted to be a little more generous, that's all. 
 The couple said that they never did receive any money from any other jobs, as you had promised. 
 (leaning into microphone) We didn't get any leads from them. Their house was not the showplace that we thought it would be. It didn't generate the activity that we had hoped. (CONTINUED) 
 (interrupting) But should a referral turn up in the community, we'd be more than happy to give them twenty dollars instead of the hundred and fifty. 
 (leaning into microphone) Excuse us for one moment. He then leans over to Delaney, and they start to confer. Tilley and Sam watch, wondering what's going on. Masters leans in the other direction, holding his hand over the microphone, and he talks to the other commissioners. They nod in approval, then Masters leans back into the microphone. 
 Thank you very much, gentlemen. Should there be a reason in the future to call you back, we would like to reserve that right. 
 (leans into microphone) Glad we could be of some service. Tilley and Sam get up from the table and walk out of the building. CUT TO: 
 (rubbing his hands, gleefully) We beat 'em, Sam... we beat 'em! What a piece of cake! No problem! They ain't got nothing on us... clean as a whistle... we're clean as a whistle! 
 I need a drink. I hate inquisitions. CUT TO: 
 (reacting sharply) I don't want to see you anymore. She pulls away from BB and continues walking.      BB walks behind her, getting soaked in the rain. 
 I gotta talk to you. 
 I don't want to listen. 
 Give me a chance to explain.    You owe me that much. Nora still walking toward her car in the downpour. 
 I don't owe you anything. BB lets her walk away.   After a beat, he yells out. 
 It was a lousy thing to do, okay? It was a lousy thing to use you to get back at your husband... but the fact is that I never would have met you otherwise. Nora stops and turns to look at. 
 (more quietly) It was lousy... it was a disgusting, terrible thing... but a lot of good came out of it. 
 What kind of a person would come up with such a devious thing? 
 I'm not always a nice guy, I admit that. I got a lot of training in deceit... it's an occupational hazard. They stand looking at one another in the rain. (CONTINUED) 
 I'd like to know what it is about me that I have to fall for tin men. What kind of character flaw do I have? 
 I didn't want to have to come here. I wish that I didn't have to ever see you again. I've gone this far in my life without having to have this kind of thing happen to me. I was going through life, sailing along, pretty good... doing okay, and I tried to get even with some crazy guy... and I'm here. 
 The wet becomes you. Gets rid of some of the slickness. 
 I don't like the idea that I'm not in control of this, but if this stuff's got to happen, I guess I've got no choice. I wanna... ya know... (he gets angry) ... I wanna be with ya! Okay, I said that... I said it, okay?! I wanna be with ya! It pisses the hell out of me, and I'm gonna tell you that to your face, but I want to be with you because... I miss you and I'd like to live with you... I'd like to marry you... and that's that! Nora eyes him carefully. The rain falls on her umbrella and the rain beats on's head. After a long moment. 
 I was hoping for something a little more romantic... but, okay. A slight smile comes to BB's face. CUT TO: 
 Ya know, Tilley, we been working together for over a year. 
 Yeah, must be about that. 
 I've been thinking that sometimes a different combination makes for better luck. Ya know what I mean? I mean, maybe the two of us ain't the right combination. 
 I'm just getting used to ya, Sam. 
 Let's face it, we're not exactly setting the world on fire. 
 It's a slump... it's a slump, Sam. 
 Maybe it's a slump, but like baseball, some time they have to change the lineup to get the team going again. 
 You're not serious about this, are you, Sam? 
 Yeah. 
 You're serious? You wanna get another partner? You don't think I'm gonna pull out of this? 
 I know you're gonna... I know you're gonna. 
 So? (CONTINUED) 
 Look, we beat the   Commission today ... you know, we   got a little bit of a victory.  We   split right now and maybe we can   add to that... you know what I'm   saying? 
 I know... I know. Change in the lineup. Okay, maybe it'll help... maybe it'll help. (he drinks his whiskey) You got any ideas for a new partner? 
 Well, I had a    conversation with Solly Shavitz,    so... maybe I'll go with him. (beat) Mouse is gonna   need a new partner because Dennis   is going into used cars. 
 Mouse! Mouse! He gets on my nerves... He eats too much. (beat; he holds up his whiskey glass) Here's to some pretty good times, huh? Sam smiles. 
 I don't get it... the broad smashes into his car and he takes her dancing. Some kind of dating ritual that I'm not familiar with. 
 BB's a pretty good tin man, huh? (CONTINUED) 
 Pretty good? Whew! Man's what legends are made of. Started selling pots and pans door to door at sixteen. Nothing he can't sell. 
 You're gonna come back and stay the night? 
 I dunno... all my things are back at Nellie's -- the other side of town. (beat) I know what I could do, I'll go back to the house... there's still a few things I left behind ... at least I can get a change of clothes. They both sit down.    BB looks at Nora. 
 I'm glad this is working out. 
 You really happy? 
 Yeah. 
 You don't really show a great deal of exuberance. 
 Honey, for me... I'm a parade. CUT TO: 
 Rattling a special padlock. PULL BACK to reveal Tilley at his front door, trying to get in. (CONTINUED) 
 What happened? 
 The I.R.S... they need my furniture. They got some living room somewhere in this country that needs to be furnished. 
 They're taking the furniture? 
 The furniture, the whole house. They locked it up... they confiscated it. 
 (yelling up to him on the porch) What do you expect? You expect to get some preferential treatment ... you're some special case? You've got to pay your taxes just like everybody else has to pay their taxes! Tilley shrugs. 
 How many arguments did we used to have about filing your taxes? 
 We had a lot of arguments. Nora starts toward him.     Tilley sits on the steps. 
 (as she sits beside him) There's a responsibility that you've got to have. It's a long way from high school, Tilley. 
 I  was doing pretty good there for a  while... doing pretty good. Had my  house, had a wife, a Cadillac... I  still got my Cadillac. (CONTINUED) 
 Where are you gonna sleep? 
 I'll stay at Sam's for a couple of days until I get set up. (beat) What're you doing here, anyway? 
 There's just a couple of things you didn't throw out of the house ... a couple of things I didn't find in the drawer. 
 I don't know... I did a pretty good house cleaning number on you. 
 Listen, about the divorce. Do you want to file, or should I file? 
 I got to be frank with you, this guy is nuts. 
 He told me all about it... all about how you threw eggs at him. 
 He told you it was about eggs? The guy tried to break into my house. He tried to steal things from me. 
 He was trying to find me.    We had an argument. 
 I think you'd be making a big mistake if you married him. 
 It's not for you to make decisions for me. 
 I think maybe I should, because I think you're being misled... I think you're confused. I think... (CONTINUED) 
 (interrupting him) I know what I'm doing. 
 (interrupting Nora) Nora, listen to me. I know about guys... 
 (cutting him off) I appreciate your concern, but it's not for you... 
 (interrupting her) But this guy is as bad a choice as you could make. Bad choice. 
 You're a good one to give advice... you're sitting on the steps, locked out of your house because you can't pay your taxes, and you're going to give me advice on life? 
 I'm not giving you a divorce, and that's it. I'm looking out for your welfare. No divorce. Nora looks at him, starts to say something, then stands up and walks down the steps of the house toward her car. 
 (yelling to her) It's for your own benefit, and you'll thank me for it. Nora turns toward Tilley and suddenly snaps. 
 My benefit! You don't give a damn about me! You don't give a damn who I marry. The reason you don't want me to marry is because he's the one taking your wife, and you've got your own problems with him. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NORA (CONT'D) You don't care about me... it's the same bullshit you're doing. That's what it always is with you, Tilley. It's always you! The I.R.S. took your house... your furniture! You don't say anything about my things in the house. I've got things in the house I worked damn hard for, and things that belonged to my family... the headboard that was given to me by Aunt Josephine, it's got to be at least a hundred years old... and the hand-embroidered footstool... 
 What footstool? 
 The hand-embroidered footstool over by the TV. 
 I don't remember seeing that. 
 It's been there forever... it was my granny's. 
 It's been there forever?   I've never seen it. 
 You've never seen it!? You've never seen it!? You put your feet on it to watch TV... the hand-embroidered footstool. 
 I don't know what you're talking about. I never put my feet up to watch TV. 
 That's the way you are, Tilley, it doesn't mean anything to you. You don't care if they take it all away. It's all you, Tilley! That's the way it's always been. (CONTINUED) 
 Hand-embroidered footstool? He walks over to his car, gets in and STARTS the ENGINE... shaking his head in disbelief. CUT TO: 
 Thanks for the lift back, BB. See ya around. 
 (O.S.) Okay, Stanley. Stanley closes the car door and drives off. Stanley watches's car turn the bend, and then he goes toward the office door. CUT TO: 
 You know something, Stanley, I can always smell a guy who's not made of tin. He walks over to Stanley. 
 It's against the law to steal files. I could call and have you arrested and sent to jail, right now. (CONTINUED) 
 I'll put everything back, nobody's the wiser. 
 You work for the Commission, is that it? Stan nods "yes." 
 Doesn't the Commission have enough information? They got to send out guys like you to spy? 
 Well, we just started out, and if we had some really good hard facts of some infractions, it would give us a lot of credibility in the community. BB walks closer to Stanley, looks at him for a second, grabs him by his tie and pushes him backwards. Stanley crashes into the filing cabinet. 
 You know what your big problem is, Stanley? You're lazy. If you want to find out stuff, then you dig... you get on the phone... you canvas... 'We're from the Home Improvement Commission...' Go find your leads... that's what we do all the time. You're just lazy, Stanley. If we're doing something wrong, you should collect all your evidence. Instead, you snoop around... steal files. What is this? Undercover time? You think you're breaking up some big drug ring? Is this the Mafia you've infiltrated? All you've got here is a bunch of guys selling tin for Christ sake! (beat) You want some files? He walks over to the filing cabinet, flips through some files and pulls out three files. Stanley has gotten up from the floor. throws the files down on the desk. (CONTINUED) 
 Here... here's some jobs I did. Leave Moe out of this... he quit the business. Stanley gathers up the files from the desk. 
 Go on, get out of here. Stanley starts for the door, and turns back. 
 Why are you doing this? 
 If it's    not gonna be you, it's gonna be    somebody else... and if it's not    tonight, it's gonna be another    time. Stanley exits the office. picks up the files that Stanley had taken out of the filing cabinet, and starts to put them back. Then he slams the filing drawers closed very hard. CUT TO: 
 Maybe if I    talked to him another day he'll    change his mind. I mean, he's    like that... one day, he's this    way and another day he's that way. 
 You don't need to talk to him. 
 I mean, he's probably, you know, upset about the I.R.S. taking the house and all our stuff. After a beat. 
 Ever see a Volkswagen? (CONTINUED) 
 What? 
 You know, those little Volkswagens. 
 What does that mean? 
 It's a car... a little car. 
 What does that have to do with anything? 
 I dunno... they're interesting. 
 What? 
 It's interesting. 
 What's so interesting about a car? 
 I dunno. It's a little thing... you know, a little thing. Guy tells me they don't even have radiators... they're air-cooled. 
 Yeah? 
 It's interesting... different... something new. I like it. CUT TO: 
 (to Wing) Tilley and Mouse. It looks weird, doesn't it? Looks very weird. WING Let's hope you have some better luck with Mouse. CUT TO: 
 (under his breath) Mr. Marengay. He goes over to the office door, opens it and yells to Tilley. 
 Hey, Tilley... Mr. Marengay's out here. Tilley comes out of the office and stands looking at BB. 
 Can I talk to you in private, or do I have to talk to you over fourteen pool tables? Tilley moves down the hall toward. (CONTINUED) 
 We've got enough that's going down between the two of us, but the fact of the matter is that I love your wife, and I want to marry her. 
 I don't care who she marries, but I don't want her marrying you! 
 Why don't we just talk about this in a nice, rational manner. 
 Rational?   You're going to be rational? 
 We've got our problems, but let's try and isolate this particular situation. 
 Isolate... isolate... I like this kind of talk. What the hell nonsense is that? 
 What are you gonna gain from this thing here? 
 Now let me see here... I've got to isolate that for a moment and think it over. 
 Nobody's going to benefit from making me mad. 
 You ought to hear yourself. You know that? You ought to listen to the way you talk. You come in here, you want to take my wife ... you want to isolate this situation... you want to be rational. I've got no tolerance for you, mister. You know what I'm saying? (CONTINUED) 
 What you're saying is you don't want to discuss this, am I right? 
 (after a beat) You like pool? The other tin men move closer to Tilley and BB, crowding in. 
 I enjoy the game. 
 Why don't we play a little  game of eight ball? If I lose,   I consent to the divorce...  if you lose, you give Nora up...  walk away from her. BB stares at Tilley; Tilley eyes BB. 
 (quietly) Rack 'em. HARD CUT TO: 
 Combination... side pocket. The tin men react.   hits the ball and sinks it. 
 That's four. (CONTINUED) 
 Yes, sir!    Yes, sir! Tilley    keeps moving around the table, sinking one ball after    the other. He's enthusiastic, excited and confi- dent.     He sinks another ball, and another. He sinks every    ball, then he eyes the eight ball for the coup de grace. 
 (trying to shake Tilley) You make this one here, and you win. 
 Don't I know it... don't I know it! He shoots. The eight ball heads for the pocket and doesn't make it. It hangs up on the felt about two feet from the pocket. 
 Bad break. quickly goes to work... sinks every one of his balls. He eyes the eight ball carefully. Tilley's nervous. A couple of the tin men make private side bets whether the ball goes or doesn't. lines up the shot; he shoots, and it misses, hanging up on the lip of the pocket. 
 Tough break. Tilley quickly moves and sinks the eight ball. 
 You lose. 
 Yeah... that puts an end to one of our differences. Now, concerning you... 
 Yeah? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm gonna beat the crap out of you. You want it here or do you want it outside? 
 Outside. BB turns his back on Tilley to move toward the door. Tilley swings with all his might and hits BB in the     back of the head. BB almost falls to the ground. Tilley       goes to hit him again. BB hits him in the face, knocking      him back. Tilley falls back... BB starts to move toward      him. The tin men move in. 
 Stay out of this... this is between the two of us. BB gets to his feet... the two guys eye one another, moving. BB quickly moves with incredible cat-like speed with four hits into the stomach, really fast, and one hit to Tilley's head. Tilley falls into the rack of pool cues, they all fall to the ground. BB goes to jump on Tilley. He slips on one of the pool cues and falls to the ground. 
 I think our business is finished. Tilley just stands watching.    walks up the steps of the pool hall and exits. CUT TO: 
 #1 ... Improves the insulation... 
 #2 ... We'll have a representative in your area... Carly, Cheese and Looney are sitting around a desk drink- ing coffee. 
 ... Danny's an example of that. Danny goes into a bar, chicks lined up and down the bar. Walks up to one and says, 'Honey, would you like to fuck?' She'd slap him in the face. He'd move down to the next girl, say the same thing... she'd slap him. Then he'd just keep moving down, going from one girl to the other. Fifteen, maybe sixteen girls would tell him to get lost... to get the hell out of there... BB enters, says "hi" to the Girls, moves to get a coffee. 
 ... Call him names... but he doesn't take it personal, you see ... he keeps going, and then the next girl smiles. He says, 'Why don't you buy me a drink'... he scores. Every time. He goes through a lot of girls, takes a lot of slaps in the face, but he never takes it personally... BB moves over to the guys. (CONTINUED) 
 ... And he always gets what he wants. Looney looks up and sees BB's face. 
 Hey, Beeb. What happened to you? That broad beat the shit out of you? BB smiles. 
 I think you must enjoy these masochistic relationships. Smashes your car... punches you in the face... Bagel walks out of his office and across to NICK, a tin man sitting at a desk across from Looney. He hands Nick a file. 
 (to Bagel) Bagel, you ought to get a load of this broad Beeb's messing with. 
 (looking over to BB) Looks a little too romantic for me. He walks back to his office. 
 You know who's no longer married to who? CARLY Well, we ought to know. There's like a million fucking people living in Baltimore. How many guesses do we get? (NOTE: The following action and dialogue will run concurrently.) (CONTINUED) 
 CHEESE                I have a certified letter No, but they're friends        here for William Babowski. of them. 
 LOONEY                     (points to BB) Friends of them...             The guy over there. 
 Ed and Ethel aren't that               MAN friendly with Ruby and Joe.    William Babowski? 
 CARLY                          BB What are you talking about?    Yeah. I went to a party, not two weeks ago at Ed and Ethel's,            MAN and they invited Ruby and      I have a certified letter Joe over.                      for you. CHEESE                 BB takes the letter. It doesn't mean they're friendly because they're               MAN invited to a party. They're        (hands BB a piece friendly, but not that              of paper) friendly. Couple I'm           Would you please sign. thinking about were very, very tight with Ruby and       BB picks up a pen and Joe.                           signs the paper. 
 LOONEY                         MAN Do we have any money bet       Thank you. on this, because otherwise we could be thinking and       He turns and exits the not gaining anything from      office. BB looks at the this discussion.               envelope, opens it and pulls out a summons. He CARLY                  reads it: "You are Frank and Vivien?              summoned to appear before the Home Improvement LOONEY                 Commission at 9:30 A.M. Frank and Vivien broke up?     on Wednesday, April 6, 1963." (CONTINUED) 
 CARLY                        BAGEL Then why don't you call      Better to err on the safe her?                         side. 
 LOONEY                       BB I stood her up in high       I'd rather handle it school... she's hated me     myself. for nearly fifteen years. 
 CHEESE               Want me to find out what You stood up Vivien          they've got against you? Marshall? Are you an         I know a clerk down there. idiot! What an idiot.        For a price I could get the inside scoop. These LOONEY               guys are just fishing I stood her up for Denise,   right now. who happened to have been my wife. So, yes, I was      BB just shakes his head an idiot. If I knew then     "no." Bagel looks at what I know now...           him. 
 CARLY                        BAGEL What was your ex-wife's      You okay, Double B? maiden name? 
 LOONEY              Yeah... yeah. Essex. 
 CARLY                Because ever since Moe Denise Essex. Did she have   went down you seem a a sister named Wilma?        little off your feed to me. 
 Yeah.                                BB Thanks for the concern, CARLY                Bagel, but I'll be all You're kidding me.           right. (CONTINUED) 
 How do you know Wilma? CUT TO: 
 Hey, Wing, isn't that the putz from the Commission? Points to car driving out of parking lot. WING Masters?   Yeah. 
 What the hell's he doing hanging around here? WING He wants information. 
 I nailed his ass the other day, Wing. Can't lay a finger on me. I was amazing, you should have been there. I was amazing... I was respectful, courteous, but I was slipping and sliding... they couldn't touch me. (CONTINUED) 
 You're gonna sell me out to the Commission? Wing, am I hearing this right? WING I'm up front with you about this... I'm up front with ya, Tilley. I've got my balls in a vice... what am I gonna do? 
 Is this about the money I owe you? Are you just pissed? You want to get even because of the horse race? I told ya it was an accident. WING Tilley, it's got nothing to do with the money. 
 You're selling me out? You're gonna let them bury me? Jesus Christ, Wing... Jesus Christ! I'm not gonna be able to work in this business? Wing, this was my chosen field! WING Masters was gonna take this company apart. You're the low man on the totem pole, Tilley. There's a lot of guys earning a good living... no sense for it all to go up in smoke. You understand, don't you, Tilley? It's just business. (CONTINUED) 
 Jesus Christ! WING Listen, Tilley, you owe me sixteen plus from the race, and you're in for over two grand on the books, so I tell you what... I'll wipe the slate clean. He takes out his wallet from his pocket, and peels off a few notes. WING Here's a thou until you get yourself set up. I can do no better than that. 
 (looking at the money) You'd sell me out for a lousy three thousand dollars? Three thousand dollars and I got to go down the toilet? Jesus Christ, Wing, how long the two of us been busting our asses together ... Jesus Christ! We got some history to this relationship for Christ sake. Masters puts a little squeeze on you, you just sell out. Three thousand dollars?! WING The bottom line is, I'm running a business, Tilley. (he peels off another couple of hundred dollars from his wallet) Here's another deuce. I carried you a long time, Tilley. I've done a damn sight more than a lot of other guys would have done for you... and I don't see no gratitude from you. He gets up to leave. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) (yelling) Bill! Better hurry up, everything's ready. (CONTINUED) 
 Eggs being slipped onto a plate with some bacon and hash browns. 
 BB comes into the kitchen of his apartment.    He is tying his tie. WIDEN SHOT to include Nora. 
 I can't believe that you're up so early. This is a rare occasion. 
 Yeah. I just got some business downtown I gotta take care of. He stands there watching Nora as she prepares the plates of food. 
 Toast will be ready in a second. Coffee's on the table. He continues to stand watching her -- she's not aware that he's watching her. She waits for the toast to pop up out of the toaster. 
 Listen, Nora. I... um... I... er ... lied to you the other day. Nora is still waiting for the toast, looking inside the toaster to see if it's getting brown. 
 How so? 
 I went to see Tilley about the divorce. She turns to look at him. 
 He was not too agreeable, and one thing led to another, and we decided to shoot some pool to settle the matter. 
 What?! (CONTINUED) 
 We played pool. If I won he'd give you up, if I lost I'd give you up. 
 You played pool for me? 
 Nora, I had no choice. 
 It's the most despicable thing I've ever heard in my life. I mean, it's disgusting... guys shooting pool to determine my future. 
 Nora, I had no choice! (beat) Hand me the toast. 
 Get the toast yourself. BB takes the toast out of the toaster. 
 I'm just trying to be honest. It's been on my mind... on my conscience. He picks up a plate. 
 This plate yours or mine? 
 Why don't you take both... maybe you can choke to death on one of them. BB takes one of the plates and goes toward the table. Nora watches him a beat, amazed that he doesn't seem to recognize the seriousness of the situation. (CONTINUED) 
 (angry) How can you be so... how     can you not understand how wrong     that is? I can't understand that     mentality! Shoot pool for me! It's      insane. BB dips his toast into his eggs. 
 Tilley is not the     most rational man in this world.      I tried to talk to him... he     wouldn't listen. So, what      are my options? You know what I'm     saying? What are my options? 
 I can't believe you had to shoot pool! Don't you understand that ... don't you understand how crazy that is? You're sitting there... you're eating your eggs as if it's normal business in life here! Like feudal lords or something you used to read about in history books. 
 All right, I'm sorry. Beat. 
 What happened? 
 I lost. He dips more toast into his eggs and eats. 
 You lost? 
 I blew the eight ball. 
 You lost? 
 Yeah. (CONTINUED) 
 What does that mean? 
 It means I'm supposed to give you up, and I'm never supposed to see you again. 
 Will you stop eating the eggs for a minute! How can you tell me things like this and casually eat your eggs?! What does this mean, Bill? 
 Well, I'm supposed to give you up as part of honoring that agreement, but I'm not that honorable a guy. He smiles, takes a quick sip of his coffee. 
 I gotta go. 
 Why are you running off so fast here? 
 I told you, I got some business downtown. He gives her a kiss. Starts to go, turns back, gives her another kiss, more passionate this time. 
 I'll see you later. He goes down the hall to walk out the front door. 
 (finally, to BB) You gotta testify, huh? 
 You? 
 Yeah. 
 You got a lawyer? 
 Nah. I already testified once. I beat 'em before, I'll beat 'em again. (beat) You got a high-priced mouthpiece to speak for ya? 
 I don't need one.    I don't expect to win. 
 How so? 
 I gave them some pretty incriminating evidence. (CONTINUED) 
 You gave them evidence? 
 The only way I could think to get out of this business. He smiles. 
 (points, laughing) Hey, that's good... that's good, yeah. There's activity in the hallway. 
 (O.S.) The hearing for the Home Improvement Commission is now in session. Tilley stands. 
 (to BB) So... how's Nora? 
 She's doin' all right. A MAN comes out of the hearing room. 
 Ernest Tilley? 
 Yeah... here. (turns to BB) Take good care of her. CUT TO: 
 (into microphone) Are you aware that that's a violation of sections 258 and 261? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm not aware of the section numbers. Sometimes you get a little overzealous in the heat of the sales pitch, that's all. BB is watching the proceedings.      CAMERA HOLDS ON him. 
 (O.S.) Was it the heat of the sales pitch on February 23rd of this year that made you write across a contract 'This Job Is Free'? 
 who is falling apart. 
 As I remember, no sale was made concerning those customers. 
 It fell out because a loan couldn't be arranged, but the people did agree in principle. (beat) The point that we'd like to stress, is that you misled these people. Told them the job was free. Then you sent in your closer with some cover story about how you had suffered a nervous breakdown, and a sale was ultimately made for twenty-three hundred and seventy- seven dollars. That is misleading and deceptive sales practice. 
 It was    temporary insanity. I don't    know... it just came over me ... it    might have been something I ate.     I don't know... it was crazy,    I'm the first to admit it was a    crazy thing to do. Believe me... (CONTINUED) 
 (cutting him off) We have other specific examples of deceptive sales practices on your behalf concerning a job carried out on December 11, 1962. You violated sections 241 and 247. And concerning a job sold to Mr. and Mrs. DeFranco on October 9, 1962, violations of sections 251 and 257 took place. 
 What are all these numbers here? I'm not familiar with all these section violations. 
 who is watching the proceedings intently. 
 (O.S.) It is the feeling of this commission that these infractions are severe violations of the Home Improvement Laws, and therefore constitute misuse of the license to sell aluminum siding as approved by this state. 
 It is the decision of this commission to revoke your license to sell aluminum siding... 
 (O.S.) ... Which will prohibit you from practicing in the state of Maryland. 
 Are you sure? Maybe the guys want to think this over. (CONTINUED) 
 Thank you, Mr. Tilley. You may hand over your license to the clerk of the commission on your way out. 
 gets up from the table and goes to the back of the room to exit the building. He stops at a desk just inside the door where the clerk is sitting. Tilley pulls out his wallet, takes out a small document, and throws it down on the desk. He exits the building. CUT TO: 
 Will Mr. William Babowski please come forward. BB walks over to the defense table and sits down. 
 You have the right to have a lawyer present if you so wish. 
 I do not wish. CUT TO: 
 Did you have a car parked here? A Cadillac? 
 Yeah.   What about it? 
 A man told me to say they took it. 
 Who took it? 
 Man said, the tax man.     Gave me a dollar to tell you so. Tilley walks over and stands in the empty space where his car had been. 
 Tax man! Fucking I.R.S. How low can you get? How low can you get? He walks around in the space as if somehow his car might reappear. He mumbles to himself. 
 They're lowlife. How can people come and take a man's car?... His Cadillac? CUT TO: 
 I think with the number of violations on your record, Mr. Babowski, this commission has no recourse but to revoke your state license. 
    (O.S.) Would you please drop    off your license with the clerk    of the commission on your way    out. (CONTINUED) 
 
 (leaning into the microphone) Thank you. gets up and walks to the back of the  room. He stops at the same desk as Tilley, but instead  of going into his wallet like Tilley, he just reaches  into his suit pocket, pulls out a license document and  tosses it onto the table. Then he heads out the door. CUT TO: 
 Sorry about your license. 
 Yeah.   You in there? 
 Yeah.   They got my license as well. 
 Sorry to hear it. 
 What are you doing standing there? 
 This is where my car used to be. 
 Stolen? 
 I.R.S. Fucking bandits! Bandits! Thieving sons of bitches! BB looks at Tilley for a beat. 
 You need a ride uptown? 
 I could use one. (CONTINUED) 
 Come on. They cross the street and go toward's Cadillac. gets in the driver's side, Tilley gets in the passenger side, and the car pulls out. CUT TO: 
 Some bullshit commission, huh? (beat) Tell me, where's it written it the Constitution that says you can't hustle for money? Where's it written? It ain't like I went into an alley and hit a guy over the head with a brick and stole his money... not like I broke into somebody's house and stole his stuff. All I'm doing is selling... where's the crime in that? 
 I don't know what the world's coming to. 
 You're telling me. I don't know what the world's coming to. 
 You know what our big crime is? We're nickel and dime guys. We're small time hustlers.  They got us because we're hustling nickels and dimes. (CONTINUED) 
 Nickels and dimes. You got a good point there, BB. You're right on the money with that kind of thinking. BB stops the car at a stop sign. Something catches BB's eye. THROUGH the windshield we see a Volkswagen "beetle" going from right to left. 
 Gotta find a new business to get into. 
 New? Very hard to find something new to get into. BB puts his foot on the gas and starts to drive. 
 Maybe... maybe not. 
 Better put on my thinking cap... not easy to think of something new. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Believe me, we'll find something. It's just a matter of time. 
 (V.O.) Yeah... matter of time. Beat. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) You know, I hear the new Cadillac's gonna be out in a couple of months. 
 (V.O.) You're kidding? 
 (V.O.) Yeah... they're changing the body. I hear it's a beaut. 
 (V.O.) Maybe I should put in my order now. 
 (V.O.) What're you talking about? You ain't got a pot to piss in. 
 (V.O.) 
