... 
 A Calm down Kingler! Cut it out! (Our heroes run inside wet.) 
 Be quiet everyone. Here is the Pier Master. 
 Is it that terrible? 
 As you heard the ferry has been cancelled. 
 She's right! Besides if the pokémon were to get hurt now they wouldn't be able to get treatment at a Pokémon Center. 
 Nurse Joy at the Pokémon Center is missing. Pokémon can't receive treatment without Nurse Joy. The poster over there is the missing person report (Brock looks at it) 
 Stop! Stop or I'll arrest you! (Sweet gets on her Dewgong and starts swimming away.) 
 Ash! Misty! (Misty comes up and he grabs onto Staryu.) 
 Mr. Mewtwo. (The lights come back on and everyone can see him clearly.) 
 controlling...) 
. 
 Where is this place? Why am I here? 
 Venusaur! Razorleaf! 
. (Copied Venusaur's vines chop up the razor leafs then his vines wrap around Venusaur and tosses him across the room!) 
 This place is no good. Let's run outside! (Nurse Joy, Psyduck, Misty and Brock start running but then a black ball catches Psyduck) 
! (A black ball catches Vulpix.) 
! (Pikachu is running and starts climbing the spiral stairs with ash running after him. Pikachu keeps using Thundershock to blow up all the pokéballs around him but more keep coming! Ash starts running up the stairs a little behind Pikachu) Don't give up Pikachu! (Pikachu gets tired and he accidentally falls of the stairs! Ash jumps after him and is about to grab him but then a black pokéballs snatches Pikachu! But Ash catches the pokéball and then falls into some water but when he does the pokéballs slips out of his hands and goes into the hole. Since it was the last pokémon the statue starts to drop but Ash just barely makes it and jumps down into the hole after the Pikachu in the ball! Team Rocket is still in the Lab, which is where all the copies are going. They are amazed at all the copies dropping into all the test tubes everywhere but then Ash falls down chasing after Pikachu!) 
 (sees)! 
 (sees)! 
 What is this fighting? Both the real ones and copies are alive now. 
! (Meowth's copy walks up to Meowth.) 
 Meow meow... 
 meow meow meow 
 meow meow 
 Animals don't hand over there territory to the same type of animal. 
 They will fight until they drive their opponents away. That is the way of living beings. 
 other. (Mew and Mewtwo's fight finally goes on ground and they both take off there force field. Mew and Mewtwo both shoots a beam out at each other and starts to run between them not seeing the 2 beams coming!) Stop! 
 The ferry has been canceled! There's a hurricane coming! 
 
 The hurricane... it's as if it never existed. 
émon. 
