 
 (O.S.) And they pay you for this?  To tag beaver? 
 (O.S.) Imagine. 
 Ask me, what an animal does in the wild is his own business so long as he doesn't do it to man.  I think Mark Twain said that. 
 (dry) I think he didn't.  But since you've said it, I guess we're covered. 
 Kelly. 
 Hi.  Listen.  Could I steal you a second? 
 I had a great time last night. Again. 
 You work for me.  I'm not comfortable with-- y'know, "us"... 
 I know and I thought I could handle it but work and pleasure along with somebody else, it's a dangerous mix. 
 (sheepish) The somebody else part? 
 (feels terrible) Else. 
 (reading her mind) A jerk. 
 It's ten after nine. 
 
 Sheriff!! 
 Hey! 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) (going into shock) Jesus Christ. 
 
 
 
 
 I tapped you. 
 (sarcastic) Wild guess. 
 Kevin told me you were upset. 
 (sheepish) Well... he didn't have to tell me that part. 
 It started before you, Kelly, I never would've-- 
 It was just a quick thing which we thought was over, and and... 
 It wasn't suppose to happen, I don't know what to say... 
 Kelly-- 
 Backstabber? 
 Liar? 
 Shitbutt? 
 What did this? 
 Hey. 
 This is business. (then) There was an accident in Maine, some guy got killed by something in a lake.  Probably a bear, but... they found a tooth. 
 A tooth they say couldn't have come from any bear.  They say it looks prehistoric.  Like maybe a dinosaur. 
 I want you to go there. 
 I'm sure it's nothing, but you're a paleontologist, this is what we do, I-- 
 I'd like you to check out this lake.  See-- 
 Kelly-- 
 Part of our research-- 
 Well on this one I'd like you to be. 
 It has nothing to do with-- 
 Kelly-- 
 He just came up screaming. 
 He just kinda gurgled.  He was pretty much dead. 
 The lake was dead calm until up he came.  The tooth is in there. 
 Yes. 
 That's where they keep them. (then) You want me to bring the tooth out here? 
 Fine. (indicating) There you go. 
 (reading her) I wouldn't. 
 Have you ever seen a dead body before, Ms. Scott? 
 This is a little different. 
 Seconds.  Three, four. 
 Yes. 
 Nobody lives within twenty-five miles, 'cept some old couple who live right on the lake.  Teenagers trek in every once in a while, none have disappeared, and none have spotted anything unusual. 
 Not yet. 
 We? 
 Sorry.  I'm just a little unclear as to why the Museum of Natural History would send somebody here. 
 I got nothing against-- 
 Lightweight Forward Area air device unit.  Whatever's out there, one shot with this and he's dead. 
 You're sort of a rude person. 
 We set? 
 Ready. (re Kelly; dry) A museum in New York sent us some additional back up. 
 Jack Wells.  A museum sent you? 
 Did you make anything of the tooth? 
 (to Jack) I'm ready when you are. 
 Let's go. 
 Ma'am, your first impression isn't going well. 
 Excuse me?  Is it true you're going to look for some kind of monster in Black Lake? 
 We're just going to investigate an accident.  There's no monster. 
 We heard a man got bit in half. 
 There was an accident, that's all. Nothing to worry about. 
 Oh, my husband passed away almost two years ago. 
 My department doesn't have any record of that, Mrs. Bickerman. 
 (with some attitude) Oh well, I'm sorry.  I didn't realize you keep such a firm track of the dead. 
 Was he swallowed? 
 Mrs. Bickerman, the reason we're up here... a man was fatally attacked yesterday by some animal in this lake.  Do you know how your husband died? 
 (brightly) Oh yes.  I killed him. 
 You killed him. 
 (happily) Oh, yes. 
 And how would you have accomplished this, Ma'am? 
 (rattling it off quickly, simply) Well, he was very ill and he refused to go see a doctor and well... I think he had Alzheimer's, he would be coherent one day, incoherent the next and one coherent day, he asked me to end his suffering.  I wouldn't do it but he kept insisting and insisting and deteriorating till the point the only cognitive thing he could really do was that I finish him off.  Finally I just gave in and hit him on the head with a skillet then buried him under the bulkhead. 
 BICKERMAN (CONT'D) (to Keough) Dig him up if you don't believe me, Javert. 
 Half mile up, there's a clearing. 
 You gonna dig up that lady's husband? 
 I'll call the coroner. 
 They wanted to call it Lake Placid. But somebody said that name was taken. 
 The tents were sent ahead, they should already be set-up. 
 I told you.  Two days, we'd have to camp. 
 (seeing something) What the hell? 
 (slowing the boat) I thought I saw... 
 Hey!! 
 (denying) I just let go of it. 
 KELLY                       JACK You threw it at me!!       Alright. (to Jack) Did you see that? 
 
 What is going on here? 
 Big but... a bear couldn't do that to a moose or man in water.  On land maybe.  But... 
 Hank says he's sure. 
 Never been to Maine before? 
 Why are you here?  Really. 
 The Museum of Natural History doesn't send out investigators to-- 
 And even if they did, I doubt he or she would have problems with tents. 
 You don't like tents, mosquitos, look at your fingernails, you have about as much business being in the woods-- 
 JACK (CONT'D) (overriding) They sent you out to examine a tooth, why are you out here on the on the lake? 
 Well.  You don't have to stay out here, why don't-- 
 What? 
 Who? 
 (arriving) With what? 
 In Maine? 
 (spotting Kelly; disappointed) You beat me.  Balls. (then) I need some of you to help me unpack. (to Burke and Stevens) You and you. (to Keough) Not you. (to Kelly) Who do we have from Fish And Game? 
 KEOUGH                      JACK (to Kelly)                 Me. Who is this man? 
 (rapid fire) I could see the algae blooms just coming in, how long has this lake been stagnant? (extending his hand to Keough) Hi, Hector Cyr.  The Earth is round and so should you be. 
 (to Kelly) --Who is he? 
 I'll need any and all topographic studies. 
 Wait just a second.  You don't just fly in here and start barking orders. 
 I apologize, I just don't want to lose the light, we've got time for a quick scout, (to Kelly) you've had work done. 
 Hector Cyr, I said it once, let me know when it sinks in, (to Kelly) have you seen it? 
 They've been migrating north, Kelly, this lake connects to the ocean,-- 
 (frustrated) Mr. Cyr! 
 C'mon, we're losing light, (to Kelly) why does the big one heckle me? 
 That hurt my feelings. 
 (arriving) If we're gonna go we better go. 
 If he's here, I'll find him. (to Jack, re Kelly) Did she tell you we had sex together? 
 Even so, you're allowed to boast. You look thin by the way, I've mentally undressed you, I can see your ribcage. 
 I really don't mean to be discourteous. (patronizing) But how is it a person could come to believe that a crocodile is in New England? 
 They have saltwater glands, they can swim across oceans, it's only a matter of time. 
 And what would he do come winter? 
 They can survive winter.  As long as their nostrils don't freeze, they survive, (to Kelly) am I foolish to explain things, he had such trouble with my name? 
 (to Keough) Is this where it happened? 
 Around here.  Yeah. 
 (knows his crocodiles) If he's eaten in the area, he shouldn't be far away.  Crocs hang around the food source. 
 'Cept he wasn't before, was he? (then to Keough) You know, when friends or family members say things, they tend not to register so sometimes it helps to hear it from a total stranger. You're fat. 
 What's that? 
 White perch. 
 Are they feeding? 
 Doesn't look like it. 
 They look like they're jumping. 
 What's going on? 
 They don't believe her. 
 Such the flirt. 
 Same thing from Fish And Game. 
 Well until we see it, we're not gonna be convincing too many people. 
 (O.S.) (calling) Sheriff. 
 (pointing to the ground) You might want to see this. 
 
 It's a human toe. 
 Some decomposition, little acidic, it has been swallowed. (to Keough; holding the toe) Is this the man who was killed? 
 We'd only just met. 
 Well, you've got a croc alright, they're keystone species. 
 Keystone what? 
 Species, keystones affect the entire ecosystem, that could explain all these worms, the water. You've got a crocodile. (proffering the toe) Bury your friend. 
 Baby crocs? 
 If one could be out there... why does Fish And Game tell me it's impossible? 
 Listen... if you really do know crocs, you should know how stealth like they are.  I wouldn't be standing a foot from the water. 
 JACK (CONT'D) He could be right there and you wouldn't see him. 
 (shrugs) He paid us.  Five hundred. 
 You're a beautiful woman. 
 Thank you. 
 And law enforcement, such dangerous work.  The idea that you could die suddenly with no offspring, disconcerting, let's mate, commit your genes to perpetuity. 
 Hey. 
 We are here on official business. 
 Cocktail? 
 No!! (then) What's with digging the holes? 
 They come on land and they're brazen.  They're also attracted to noise, you can see I make a lot of it. 
 Everybody out, back to your tents, now! 
 (re Gare) Could she stay, we've tentatively scheduled intercourse. 
 No!!  Out! 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) (to Hector) You listen to me.  The only reason I'm letting you be part of this is 'cause you got the helicopter and the radar-- 
 And you like me. 
 I do not like you. 
 Deep down, gut check.  I'm growing fond of you and it's liberating to say so. 
 You're a whacko. 
 (O.S.) That hurt my feelings. 
 A 
-- 
 What are you doing? 
 Listen, uh... Hank and I think it best if you stay on shore. 
 Whatever's out there did flip over a canoe-- 
 It's too dangerous for-- 
 You flew up here because your boss-- 
 JACK (CONT'D) (overriding) I'm beginning to see why you were shipped off. 
 (feels bad now) I'm sorry but you're... 
 Okay. (then) We're up at six. 
 (a beat) 'Night. 
 
 Jesus Christ!! 
 What the hell are you doing?!! 
 What are you doing?! 
 You're crawling around like a-- 
 I'm laying a spring trap! 
 A spring trap! 
 I keep telling you, they can come on land, I don't wanna wake up in the middle of the night-- 
 I coulda shot you, you-- 
 This could end up saving your life,-- 
 HECTOR                    KEOUGH This man takes a pistol     He's crawling around-- to pee! 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) (escalating) This is an official investigation, and this cuckoo bird is a civilian. I don't care how much money he's got, he's a total mental. 
 Apologize? 
 He thinks they're what? 
 Is this 'spose to make me take him more serious? 
 (befuddled) Why does everybody insult my intelligence, I have intelligence, intelligent people eat Twinkies. 
 Let's just all get some sleep. 
 I'm an intelligent person. 
 (O.S.) (calmly) I shall kill him. 
 Again, I don't mean to be annoying with my questions.  But if it is a crocodile which I don't think it is.  And if they do charge these baby hatchling sounds... (to Jack) why exactly would you want to be underwater at the time? (to Hector) With you it makes sense. 
 They don't really attack underwater and-- 
 That "Walt" guy got hit underwater-- 
 No crocodile has ever-- 
 And what if I tranq him Kelly?  He drowns.  You think about that? 
 Again.  Not to be disruptive.  Do we have a problem with it dying? 
 Crocodiles don't sever with their teeth, their molars are blunt. 
 Is this a trick? 
 What I'm saying is if it's a crocodile that cut a man in half he would have to be over twenty feet which would make him well over a hundred years old, it would be unthinkable to destroy him. 
 (to Burke) Alright, let's just drop here. 
 Good. (climbing over) See ya soon. 
 (to Kelly) Two years married, divorced, used to be a lawyer, quit, I'm still waiting on his sperm count. 
 As if. (as he's about to go overboard; to Keough) Will you miss me? 
 (to Hector) I brought a pork chop, maybe we could hang it around your neck for luck. 
 No thank you, but maybe later you can chew the bark off my big fat log. 
 (to Kelly) Was that like a homo-sexual remark? 
 And that's why he thinks they're Godly? 
 (simple) You like Jack? 
 Hector thinks you like him. 
 You think Jack's handsome? 
 I'm just curious.  I can never tell what women think is handsome.  Is he handsome? 
 Am I? 
 (into headset) Hector, Jack, we show you with about twelve minutes of oxygen left, and you're on the last tank. Time to go home. 
 I don't know.  It was like a tug. Something tugged us. 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) Hey! 
 Something's got the anchor line! 
 Kelly!! 
 
 (into headset) Jack!!  Hector!  We're being dragged!! (as he starts the motor; to Burke) Cut the line!  Cut the fucking line! 
 Cut the Goddamn rope! 
 (working away) I'm trying! 
 
 (screaming) Look out!! 
 (back to Kelly) Are you alright? 
 We went in different directions. That water is thick, you can't see through it! 
 
 (into headset) Hector!  Hector, we got dragged off position, when you surface, you gotta yell. 
 (giving a statement) Nobody actually saw it.  It happened sudden. 
 You okay? (nothing) Kelly? 
 No. (then) U.S. Wildlife is on their way. 
 Police want to keep it quiet, if the press gets word... lake monster.  They just want us to sit tight. 
 
 Are you okay? 
 A man died.  You don't have to be so tough. 
 (genuine) I'm sorry. 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) Was he a good man? 
 Yup. 
 Whenever somebody dies I consider it such a waste that I didn't know him better. 
 (fighting off disbelief; shock maybe) His head was just... bitten off. 
 (sadly) I used to have this recurring nightmare that I was headless. 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) (quietly rattling it off) I'd be on the ground looking up at my body, no head, walking around bumping into everything.  And my parents wouldn't let me in the house 'cause they'd just bought all these new antique lamps and they were afraid I'd knock them over, made sense, and meanwhile, the neighborhood bullies would see my round little head on the ground looking like a ball, and they'd come rushing over to start up a game of soccer.  I'd actually feel grateful just for being allowed into the contest, that's esteem for you, what are your thoughts? 
 (a powder keg) You know, Hector, I'm sure you're a fine person in your own mental way.  But I think it would be best if you and I didn't speak. 
 This is a setback. 
 You don't want to cut me down. 'Cause I'll kill you. 
 I thought I might track the shoreline tomorrow, look for prints. 
 JACK (CONT'D) You know they say the brain confuses fear for passion. 
 When you get scared, the brain releases a chemical, same chemical it releases when somebody's... (a beat) in high school, the thing to do was to take the girl to a scary movie. 
 I'm saying between the moonlight, a beautiful lake and a monster that bites heads off... you look good. 
 Forgive me for trying to be nice. 
 I didn't say it like that. 
 I was trying to pay you a compliment, I was guising it as science 'cause I know you're comfortable in that arena. Science. 
 Just forget it. 
 (arriving) Beg pardon?  Sorry to intrude but Hank seems to have gotten himself stuck in a tree. 
 I probably could've accomplished freeing him myself but he had a look of mayhem on his upside down face. 
 (calmly) Yes. 
 (calmly; almost sweet) Other than feeling slightly embarrassed, I'm perfectly fine. (then) Could you cut me down? 
 Promise you won't kill me, first. 
 (calmly) I have no interest in ever looking at you, Hector. (again) Could you please cut me down? 
 You cut, we'll hold him. 
 (calm) Thank you. (then) I lied. 
 (admitting) Okay.  It's a crocodile.  I'll admit it. 
 (daunted) Are you sure? 
 Asia?  How... how could he get here? 
 Obviously some asshole in Hong Kong flushed him down a toilet. 
 (charged) Hank.  The little cannon you brought, get it.  Guard the shoreline.  Otherwise, we're done. We made the I.D., our job is finished. 
 Alright, Ms. Paleontologist.  I wanna know why that monster is here.  You got a theory? 
 But why Maine and why alone?  Crocs are social, why's this guy on the move by himself? 
 Maybe he doesn't play well with others. 
 Is everything a big fucking joke to you? 
 (re his groin) Bite my bishop. 
 I'm sick of him! 
 JACK                       HECTOR (interceding)        Let him go!  I'm sick of you C'mon.                   too, let him go. (then) Thing about being rich, Sheriff, my parents had the added luxury of being able to ditch me off at Karate school, I'm a brown belt.  So go ahead.  Take your best shot. 
 (who knew?) He said he knew Karate! 
 (shaken) At school they'd always say "go" first. 
 (to Keough) Get your big gun and guard the shore.  Hector.  Go to your tent. 
 (muttering as he goes) He never said "go". 
 (to Keough) Get the gun. 
 (muttering as he goes) If I fall into a hole or get hoisted into a tree... 
 (re Keough and Hector) Like little children. (then) You okay? 
 I couldn't believe... did you see the size of that thing's mouth? 
 (taking her arm; ushering) Let's get away from the shore. 
 JACK (CONT'D) Sorry. 
 (O.S.) Told you I could make it. 
 There it is. 
 (stripping) Last one in's a dead man. 
 Ow.  Shit. 
 Who taught you be be a nurse? 
 No thanks. 
 (dry) Thank you. 
 JACK (CONT'D) You're having the best time of your life, aren't you? 
 That's why you're here.  To get in the middle of something? 
 Thanks for the... bandaid. 
 
 Here I come.  Ready or not. 
 All or nothing, Tom. 
 From the jaws of defeat... 
 Ha ha. 
 (still in the water) Tommy? (then) This isn't funny, Tommy. 
 Tommy? 
 C'mon,  Tommy. 
 Where is he? 
 (yelling) This isn't funny!! 
 What's that? 
 It came from across the lake. 
 (to Keough) You said nobody came in here! 
 Obviously I was wrong! 
 He just took him in his jaws. 
 
 He was in his mouth?! 
 Yes. 
 (stunned; to Tommy) You're okay? 
 (in shock) I think; just cuts. 
 The thing just came up out of the water and kind of spit him at us. 
 You should have signs posted, for God's sake! 
 (examining him) You're really okay? 
 I might need a Tetanus. 
 Just spit him back out.  Some shall live, some shall die, arbitrarily, sound like any higher power we know? 
 (dismissive) He didn't eat the kid cause he'd just swallowed a bear. 
 Sobek.  Half man, half croc, oldest God-- 
 I'm tired, Hector.  I know this because you're beginning to not bug me. 
 That sounds good but underneath it's hurtful. (then) Nightcap? 
 Raincheck. 
 Well.  Goodnight. 
 We could not say it and... (suddenly a coward) Well, that thing is ambulatory if you want somebody in your tent to... 
 Get back from the shore.  We know how fast he can leap out. 
 We shouldn't even really be doing this. 
 They won't be here till at least noon.  We got a few hours to kill. 
 So does he. 
 (quickly) Ssssh! 
 I heard something. 
 (suddenly) Look. 
 
 (to Keough) Guard the water. 
 JACK (CONT'D) That's pretty big. 
 It seems like we're getting lower. 
 It happens when I land. 
 Why are we landing? 
 'Cause this is the cove he obviously lives in. 
 (alarmed) So why are we landing? (then) Hector. 
 Maybe.  Don't mush it. 
 You're mushing it a little around the-- 
 
 (holding her) Okay.  Okay.  Okay. 
 Really-- 
 (holding her shoulders) Calm down. 
 Calm down. 
 (re the head) Is that uh... 
 I can't recognize him from the back.  It looks like him. 
 
 That's him. (re something) What the...? 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) Now I'm gonna puke. 
 (seeing something) You gotta be kidding. 
 (pointing) Look. 
 
 What? 
 
 Come and get it. 
 (indignant) I haven't broken any laws. 
 (bordering on condescension) Oh, but you have, Ma'am.  You lied to us, that could be obstruction of justice.  A man's been killed in part 'cause of your silence, I could make out a charge of reckless endangerment and I'm sure PETA would be annoyed at how you treat your cows. 
 The reason I lied is if I'd told you the truth, you'd just hunt it down and kill it which seems to be exactly what you're doing. 
 About six years.  He first appeared in May of nineteen-ninety-one. Bernie was out fishing and it followed him home.  So we threw him some scraps and well... he didn't seem to bother anybody.  He became kind of like a pet who lived in the wild. 
 He just appeared.  You have no idea how he arrived in this lake? 
 No.  Do you? 
 Ma'am.  Your husband, Bernie.  You didn't, by any chance, lead him to the lake blindfolded? 
 (offended) No, I did not. (then) The crocodile did kill him, though. But it was all... it was a mistake. 
 One of our horses got loose two years ago, went to the lake to drink and... well the crocodile started coming in, Bernie went to intercede and... it was all a terrible misunderstanding. (then) If I reported it, they would've sent people to kill it. 
 Ma'am, how could you not report this?  He puts human life at risk and-- 
 Nobody lives on this lake.  it's really his lake now. 
 (getting panicked) C'mon Hector.  I know you're crazy but you can't-- 
 I need to see his habitat. 
 Please.  I'll have sex with you, anything, but get out of the water. 
 He's not gonna hurt me. 
 Murders and rapes in the cities. People bomb planes... can the police stop them?  No.  But feed one little cow to a crocodile... 
 You're to wait right here until the police show, you're under full house arrest. 
 Thank you, Officer Fuckmeat. 
 (O.S.) (through walkie-talkie) Hank!  We got a problem with Hector. 
 (into walkie-talkie) What problem? 
 (O.S.) 
 
 (weakly) Oh.... my. 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) I suddenly feel a bit foolish. (then) You're different from the others. 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) (terrified; trying to convince himself) Holy spirit of Sobek.  Holy ghost. (swallows) Holy shit. 
 Hector!! 
 (to Gare; forced calm) Just turn the ignition, it's fuel injected. 
 Come on. 
 
 I know under the circumstances, biting off my head might seem viable.  It would cheapen you. 
 I might get a shot. 
 (fear in his voice) No.  If you don't kill him instantly, I'm dead and you'll only kill him instantly if you get his brain, which is about the size of a cherry.  And even if you were on target, a bullet might not penetrate his hide. 
 
 (re the croc) Jesus. (to Hector) About twelve more yards.  Keep coming just like that. 
 
 
 (weakly) Oh my God. 
 
 Move over!! 
 Go!! 
 GARE (CONT'D) (screaming) Go!!! 
 I'm trying!!! 
 (livid) This time, I'm gonna kick your ass. 
 Bastard bit my chopper. 
 Hey!! 
 JACK (CONT'D) You wanna kill yourself, that it, you looking to commit some kind of divine suicide? 
 No! (back to Hector) You might think they're Godly, you might get some spiritual lift backstrokin' with dragons but you just put a deputy at risk and-- 
 (flaring) Let's not overlook he didn't eat me, maybe-- 
 'Cause he just ate a cow, you stupid-- 
 I'm a civilian!  You don't have any authority-- 
 I can arrest you!! 
 Then do it!! 
 You probably do want to be killed by it, that was you trying to meet your maker. 
 So profound and fat. 
 You think I'm that nuts? 
 Nothing's real. 
 Nothing's real. (escalating) I'm rich, people are automatically my friends, sycophants ooze out like oil slicks and and and-- 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) With crocodiles... everything's even. 
 (pained) I'm an empty man, Kelly, wealth has robbed me of the dream in life, I sit here broken, a hollow sack-- 
 Didn't even sound good? 
 (worth a try) Eh.  Fuck it. 
 Yes.  You may.  But maybe... I don't know... 
 Could we have intercourse? 
 Just heard from Wildlife and Florida Fish And Game.  They should be here by four. 
 We might as well pack. 
 (O.S.) They'll kill him. 
 They're not going to be able to snag him in pitmans.  Tranq him in water, he drowns. 
 (knowing) They won't.  He's taken human life, the mission will be to put him down. 
 Gee, that would really disappoint me. 
 Forget about him being God, he's thirty feet long, he is a miracle of nature, who somehow made his way to Maine.  This is a grand beast. A grand dragon.  An attempt should at least be made to capture him alive. 
 Well, you can try talking them into that, if-- 
 I have enough flaxedil with me to put him out.  And I think I know a way to-- 
 Forget it. 
 Look.  I know I'm crazy, but when they come, they will kill it.  They have to, politically, he's too dangerous, if something were to go wrong... the odds are he will be destroyed,-- 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) If he were neutralized when they got here... they might consider saving him. 
 We lure him on land and pump him with the drugs. 
 No way. 
 Jack.  We've all seen it.  He's probably a hundred and fifty years old, he's bigger than an elephant. 
 So maybe Wildlife will try to save him, they're more equipped to-- 
 We both know what they'll do. 
 Even if we could tranq him-- how would we get him on land. 
 Other than to eat us? 
 He follows anything that moves. You guys can be in the trucks with tranq guns.  If he charges, drive off, plus Hank you've got your hand- held cannon.  We could do this with no safety risk.  If it works, we save a beast that should be saved. 
 And again.  How would you get him on land? 
 That's actually the easy part. 
 (to Keough) I'll sue you. 
 Go ahead. 
 (to Jack) You can't take a cow by eminent domain. 
 We won't let him get hurt, Ma'am. 
 You're all fuckers.  Vicious little fuckers. 
 Are we crazy? 
 We've got a cow hanging from a helicopter. 
 Let's get back to camp. 
 Not much drag.  As long as I can keep him from swinging, we're okay. 
 
 (into headset) Keep enough tension to hold him up, Hector, we don't know if he can swim. 
 (O.S.) (through headset) Right. 
 The more he thrashes, the better. 
 (O.S.) (through headset) You ready on shore? 
 We're ready. 
 
 (O.S.) (through headset) If he tires, lift him out. 
 It can't work. 
 He looks like a giant tea bag. 
 (looking through binoculars) He doesn't seem to be swimming.  Is he swimming? 
 (into headset) Hector. 
 (O.S.) Hold on! 
 I got something on the screen. 
 (O.S.) You do? 
 He's coming. 
 (into walkie-talkie; now adrenalized) Where?  Where? 
 (O.S.) (through walkie talkie) Thirty meters or so.  Moving slow, but straight toward Elsie. 
 Can you confirm visually or just radar? 
 (O.S.) (through walkie talkie) Radar, he's underwater.  But he's definitely coming. 
 Okay.  Lead him in. (to the others; barking) Okay, everybody up on the trucks. We aim for the stomach or side... there's little chance the darts will pierce his hide.  Everybody up on the trucks. 
 (charged) On our way.  There, he's surfacing, there's the snout.  You little sucker. 
 She's worried about the cow now. 
 (O.S.) (through walkie-talkie) He's following.  Here we come. 
 (to Hector) Nice and slow. (to the others) Let's get ready. 
 You wouldn't? 
 They're coming right in. 
 That it's about to go wrong. 
 (into walkie talkie) Almost here, Hector.  Don't forget to lift up the cow. 
 (O.S.) (sarcastic, through walkie talkie) Thank you, Jack. 
 (to the team) You shoot on my order.  If he charges, I'll be yelling "go" which means drivers take off.  And drive fast, they can move on land. (to Keough) You set? 
 Don't worry about me. 
 We're in about four feet of water now. 
 Little closer.  Three, two, one... 
 JACK (CONT'D) Fire!! 
 Oh, shit. 
 Keep firing! 
 Motherfucker. 
 Shit!! 
 (to Keough) Take him. 
 I can't.  I'll get Hector!! 
 Where is he?! 
 (to the driver) Back us in a little, we need to get a shot! 
 Where is he? 
 (to the Deputies) Tranq guns down, rifles up! 
 JACK (CONT'D) (yelling to Hector) Do not go in that water! (to the driver) Back us in!! 
 JACK (CONT'D) (to Keough) If you get a safe shot... 
 I'll take it! 
 Hector.  Do not move. 
 JACK (CONT'D) (to Gare) You see anything? 
 (looking through binocs) Nothing.  Maybe he swam out. 
 Go!!  Drive!! 
 JACK (CONT'D) Take him!! 
 I don't know. (to the Driver) Back the truck-- 
 Hector, you see anything? 
 
 No! 
 (sarcastic) I just have this feeling everything's totally safe. 
 (yelling) I see blood.  Maybe you got him, Hank. 
 HECTOR (CONT'D) I can't see him, but this is definitely blood.  Maybe you got him. 
 Where is he?! 
 I don't know! 
 Hector!! 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) (taking aim) Alright.  Game over. 
 KEOUGH (CONT'D) (to Kelly) Should I? 
 
 I don't think we really want to wait for him to catch his breath. 
 I don't care.  Hank.  End it. 
 No.  Look.  He's got nothing left. 
 Yeah and every time we think there's no more danger-- 
 I'm okay. 
 Get him onto shore. 
 Guess I finally got bit. 
 (quietly; re the big croc) He's done.  He's dying. 
 Don't count on it. (then) We better take him out. 
 (quiet) Flax him under his tail.  Two hundred cc's.  Under the tail, that'll put him to sleep. 
 Thank God. 
 (explaining) We trapped him with our chopper. 
 We're gonna airvac him to Portland. 
 He's gonna live? 
 And Hank. (to Keough) I know you weren't really trying to hit him. 
 (gently) I was aiming for you. 
 Thanks for the rescue. 
 You take care. 
 You talk to Bickerman? 
 She didn't tell us about the other croc 'cause she was afraid we'd blow it's head off. 
 Women's intuition.  Are there anymore? 
 Just those two. 
 We gotta take him. 
 Okay. 
 We got room for one. 
 Well... I got stuff to pack up and... 
 (grudging) I'll go. 
 Thanks for your help. 
 You too. 
 I guess. 
 You wanna ride in my truck? 
 (arriving) Your truck is jammed.  Should we take some stuff out? 
 You sure?  I don't mind... 
 If I'm ever in New York... 
 Y'know, if we didn't live in separate worlds and... (a beat) 
 It was... something meeting you. 
 I thought I should say goodbye to the lake too. 
 Yeah, I thought about that as I was driving... and... I haven't found somebody in my world.  You found anyone in yours? 
 So I was thinking... maybe if I met anybody in my world who was good for you and if you know somebody in New York good for me, we could fix each other up. 
 Worth a try.  We don't wanna be alone forever, do we? 
 That was... y'know if the guy asks me can she kiss, now I'll be able to tell him if you can. 
 Cute little Buttons.  Mommy loves you.  Come eat your supper little buttons.  Nibble Mommy's toes. 
 
