 Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. 
 (V.O.) There comes a time in everyone's life when they discover that the only person you can truly depend on is yourself. That the only real power anyone has to get anything done is the power of one. With any luck you can make it through a lot of years before you ever have to face the reality of that fact. (beat) It was a luxury I never had. I discovered it the year my mother had her nervous breakdown. 
 (V.O.) I was all of six. 
 (V.O.) My father died before I was born, and even though I was raised by my Zulu nanny, with my mother, depending on her health, in nominal attendance, it was decided, with her departure, that I, too, would depart... (beat) ... for boarding school. 
 (V.O.) But before I could be sent out into the world one very serious matter had to be dealt with. (beat) I was a chronic bedwetter. Since my nanny was the one responsible for my well-being, she did what any responsible Zulu mother would do. She called on the greatest medicine man of her tribe -- Inkosi Inkosikazi. 
 (V.O.) Legend had it that Inkosi Inkosikazi was the last son of the great Zulu king, Dingaan, who fought both the Boers and the British to a standstill nearly 100 years before, and the night Inkosi Inkosikazi was conceived stars fell from the sky until the sun rose. The circle    complete, the old man sits down opposite the Boy. From     a leather pouch he produces several bones. He throws the    bones on the ground and studies them for a moment. He     begins to wave the fly switch back and forth in front of    the Boy's eyes, chanting low, softly. The Boy's eyes    grow heavy; his lids droop. 
 (V.O.) The medicine man instructed me to jump off the falls and climb along the ten stepping stones, counting as I went until I reached dry land. 
 (V.O.) Even though it was only a dream, I felt as if my struggle to reach dry land was terrifyingly real. The water was like ice, bone- chilling, cold, and as I made my way from one stone to the next I could feel my strength desert me. The progress from one step to the next gets progressively harder as the Boy keeps slipping into the swirling water, coughing and sputtering. 
 (V.O.) I was three rocks in when I ran out of gas. I couldn't pull myself any further. No matter how hard I 
 (V.O.) Inkosi Inkosikazi said the spirit of the great Zulu warriors lived in me. He told me that whenever trouble arose I should return to the waterfall and keep stepping across the rocks until the trouble passed. He said three rocks were enough to conquer my problem with the night water; that I was very brave. He said I was a man for all Africa, bound to her by my spirit, bound by my dreams. (beat) And he let me keep the chicken. 
 (V.O.) Although I was bound by spirit 
 (V.O.) The school I   was sent to was attended and   staffed entirely by Afrikaaners,   the oldest of the two white tribes   of Africa. 
 (V.O.) I spoke only English. The hated tongue. The language of the enemy who had usurped power and stolen the country through political chicanery and military brutality. 
 (V.O.) During the Boer War of 1896, 26,000 Boer women and children were herded into detainment camps by the British, where they died like flies from dysentery, 
 (V.O.) And no one made this more evident to me than Jaapie Botha, a wheat farmer's son from the Transvaal. 
 (V.O.) The only time I was at peace was when I slept. Inkosi Inkosikazi's chicken proved to be, like his previous owner, a salvation. 
 (V.O.) During the day he would live outside the dorm, happily scarfing down bugs and grubs, secure in a little house I built for him. 
 (V.O.) And at night he would hop through the window and, perching over my bed, squawking if any intruders came near. 
 (V.O.) He was my best and only friend. 
 (V.O.) I'm sure in time a status quo would have been achieved between me and my schoolmates were it not for the cataclysmic events occurring in that faraway place none of us had ever seen. (beat) Two montjhs after I arrived at the school World War II broke out in Europe. Hitler had vowed to crush the British Empire. The Boers sharpened their swords in anticipation. The six-year-old comes back to his bed in the dorm to find a swastika carved into it. CUT TO: 
 God has sent Hitler to deliver us from the English bastards who stole our country and killed our people. Heil Hitler! The other boys chorus in. 
 We will swear a blood oath. When Hitler comes we'll rise up and kill the Verdomde Rooineks. 
 With your blood. 
 We swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler. Heil Hitler! 
 Death to all Englishmen in South Africa. Heil Hitler! The chorus repeats. 
 God bless the fatherland.    Heil Hitler! 
 See what we have in store for you when Hitler comes, Rooinek. Hoy! 
 No! 
 For crimes committed against the whole Boer people. I, Jaapie Botha, the judge and Uberfuhrer, sentence you and your Rooinek kaffir chicken to death. Heil Hiter.! 
 No! Jaapie releases the stone. It flies true, catching the SQUAWKING, struggling CHICKEN flush in the chest. The flapping stops as blood soaks through feathers. 
 Heil Hitler! 
 Hang him up! 
 Jaapie!   No! 
 Hang him! 
 You will pay for the deaths of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our aunts and uncles. All Rooineks will pay and you will be first. Pull! 
 In the name of Adolf Hitler and the fatherland, I sentence you to die, Verdomde Rooinek. 
 Kill him!   Kill him!   Kill him! 
 What's this? 
 I came to after being unconscious for two days, the rock missing my eye by half an inch. After a week in hospital it was decided I'd be sent to my grandfather's house in the English town of Barberton, at least until passions at school cooled. Jaapie Botha was expelled; sent home to his family's farm in disgrace. 
 PK (CONT'D) (beat) And so the first recorded South African casualty of Hitler's insanity was not a Boer, nor a Rooinek, but a tatter-feathered, half-bald kaffir chicken. PK finishes. The end of class BELL RINGS. Offstage, other classrooms are exiting into the common hall, but no one in St. John's study moves. St. John takes his 
 ST. JOHN Very evocative, yes. Particularly the image of the chicken. Good choice there. 
 ST. JOHN Any ideology that needs to attack the thing that least threatens it is an ideology that will not outlive its own generation. Inclusion, gentlemen, not exclusion, is the key to survival. (beat) Something our new government should take heed of, eh? 
 ST. JOHN Next week we have Mr. Levy who will enlighten us on... 
 Sport and wager in Imperial Rome, sir. 
 ST. JOHN (facetious) Very apt, Mr. Levy. We look forward to the experience. (pause) All right. 
 ST. JOHN P.K. 
 ST. JOHN Well-written. 
 Thank you, sir. 
 ST. JOHN I've received notice from the 
 Yes, sir. 
 ST. JOHN A word of caution. Contemporary to most of these fellows means the seventeenth century. Try and keep your theme, um, classical, if you know what I mean. 
 Yes sir. I will. (beat) Will the scholarship be decided at the same time, sir? 
 ST. JOHN Money's a different matter. Different committee. 
 Very good, sir. St. John picks up a book and opens the pages. He begins to read. takes it as a cue for his dismissal. He goes to exit. 
 ST. JOHN And P.K... 
 ST. JOHN Good luck tonight. 
 Thank you, sir. 
 How we doing? 
 You win and your dream comes true. You lose, we're back to bread and butter sandwiches till term's end. What'd he want? 
 My appointement before the Oxford committee came through. 
 A snap. 
 For a brain like you, maybe. 
 Come on, you'll read one of your pieces, they'll be begging you to attend. 
 But will they pay for the privilege? 
 Well let's bloody hope so. It'll be a lonely time without you there. 
 Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you? 
 Sentimentality my ass. Practicality. Where am I going to find a sure thing like you to make book on at bloody Oxford? 
 Go on. 
 You hear Sutcliffe screwed Bartlett's sister when he stayed with them over holidays? 
 I don't believe it. 
 I heard it from Bartlett's own lips. He's selling reservations for next holiday. A pound for one night; three pounds for four. 
 You register? 
 For both of us. Took the whole holiday. 
 You nervous? 
 No. 
 Christ! I'm about to have a calf. This bloody Boer gets lucky, we're in the poorhouse. They reach the double doors. Still in CLOSEUP, Morrie turns to face PK for the first time. 
 Now remember. We're not here to exhibit our wares. We go in, we do the job, we get out. Right? 
 Right. 
 And at the end of six matches in all weight divisions, the score is Prince of Wales three victories, Helpmakeer three victories. 
 And now for the final bout to determine which school will win the Johannesburg 1950 public school boxing team championship. In this corner, weighing 140 pounds, standing 5'8", from the Helpmakeer School with a record of 13-0 on the year, Jannie Geildenhaus. A huge cheer goes up for JANNIE, muscular, bare-chested, as he dances and shadowboxes for the crowd. 
 And in this corner, representing the Prince of Wales School, the current Johannesburg Public School welterweight champion, also with a record of 13-0 on the year, also 140 pounds, Kid P.K. 
 We thank the native population for their spirited display of enthusiasm. But now, on to the main event. Fighters to center ring, please. 
 You both know the rules.     No butts, no elbows, no low    blows. First man to score three    knock downs wins. Let's have     a good clean fight. Good luck     to you. The fighters slap leather. PK turns back to his corner when his focus is broken dramatically by a face in the crowd. 
 First row, third from the left. Find out who she is. 
 We're in a bloody war here, in 
 Blery Rooinek.     I'll kill you. 
 Get up!     Get up! 
 Up!   Up! 
 Okay.   Fight. 
 What are you trying to do, bankrupt us? What happened? 
 Christ! If they get caught in here they're dead. (beat) What the hell's going on? 
 I don't know. 
 Well, worry about it later. In case you haven't noticed, this Boer bastard is trying to kill you. 
 You see the way he drops his left when he throws the right? 
 Yeah? 
 Thank you, God. 
 Here you go, pal. He hands PK the money. 
 You're the treasurer of this company. You hold it. Did you find out what I asked for? 
 
 Thanks for the advice.    The information please. 
 Do you know who her father is? Professor Daniel Marais. 
 So? 
 So? He's the Nationalist Party's resident intellectual. The man is one of the architects of this damned system of -- what are they calling it? -- apartheid? He has about as much use for a Rooinek Englishman rutting after his daughter as the Queen does for balls, pardon my French. 
 What's her name and where do I find her? 
 Maria Elizabete Marais, Seniors Cottage, Room 22, Devilliers School. They don't call it 'Fortress Virgin' for nothing. You'll never get in. 
 You going to take book on that? 
 Already have.    Three-to-one says you don't. 
 Where'd you bet? 
 I took a big position you do. 
 In case you have to bail yourself out. 
 Those are always cold.     Use this one. 
 May I come in? 
 I'm sorry to scare you. 
 (nervous) You can't be here. 
 I didn't know how else to meet you. 
 I could be expelled. 
 
 We went on a dare. Please. PK ignores her anxiety. 
 Did you like it? 
 It was... (beat) ... exciting.    You were very good. 
 (in Afrikaans) Thank you. I'm glad I impressed you. 
 (surprised) You speak the Taal. 
 I'll speak Zulu if it'll help me see you again. 
 I can't. 
 Why not? 
 I need my father's permission. 
 Is it hard to get? 
 Hard for an Afrikaaner boy. Impossible for an English one. 
 How about your permission?    Do I have that? 
. 
 #1 We're having coffee upstairs. Want to come? 
 I have to finish this paper. 
 #2 Come when you're finished.     We'll be up late. They close the door.    Maria reinforces it with her body. 
 Please go. 
 You didn't answer my question. 
 There are plenty of English girls. What makes me so important? 
 The way I felt when I saw you. 
 My father will insist on meeting you. 
 I can't wait. 
 (V.O.) Lights out, ladies. 
 Now please. 
 (in Afrikaans) Good night, Maria Marais. 
 (in English) Good night, PK. 
 I don't remember telling you my name. 
 (smiling) And I don't remember telling you mine. PK smiles back at her. He drops to the ground. Maria closes the window and watches him scoot across the campus until he is swallowed by the night. 
 Jan Piet Marais. My uncle. At 22 he led a kommando for three years before your people caught him and hung him. 
 My people? 
 The English. 
 I consider myself an African, sir. 
 As do I. As do the Zulu, the Xhosa, the Pongo, the Ndebele. We're all Africans. But all from separate tribes, ay? 
 Unfortunately. 
 Why do you say that? 
 Because it's the whole tribal idea that creates our problems here in South Africa. 
 The problems of South Africa, my boy, do not come from tribalism. They come from counter-tribalism. From people insisting that natural laws which have been in place and operating since God's creation, should be tampered with. Does the gazelle sleep with the lion? Does the rhino graze with the mouse? The separation of things is not coincidental. Do you think a Zulu wants to see his culture, his sense of identity, replaced by someone else's anymore than I do? 
 No, sir. But I don't think he wants being a Zulu to mean he is denied the same rights as everyone else has. 
 Which is why civilization is defined by the ability to live under the rule of law. Laws define rights. 
 But do they define justice? 
 Ah. Justice. The banner behind which the English marched as they gobbled up a quarter of the world? Justice, my boy, is only relative to who's in charge. 
 And how long they stay in charge is only relative to how well they dispense that justice... (beat) ... with all due respect. 
 Papa, would you like coffee in the library or the parlor? 
 (pleasant) The library, mein leib. 
 I can't figure out if you're brave or foolish. 
 Why is that, sir? 
 You come here to ask for permission to see my daughter. Correct? 
 Yes, sir. 
 And knowing  who I am, what I stand for, do you  think this sort of discussion  is going to put that request in  a favorable light? 
 I thought a man of your intellectual reputation wouldn't want his daughter seeing someone who didn't think. 
 Let me give you some advice then. You're right. I admire a keen mind.  But intellectual reputation or not, I am first a Marais, a member of the Volk. 
 MARAIS (CONT'D) And if you're trying to impress a member of the Volk with your intellect, don't do it espousing liberal ideas picked up in an English private school. 
 These ideas I picked up somewhere else. 
 (joking) No doubt from an expert on race relations. 
 Actually, sir, from an expert on cactus. 
 DOC (FIGURE) Ja. Perfect.    You will excuse me, please. 
 This I do not normally without permission do, ja? But to catch the expression. After all, it is the expression that is important. Ja? Without the expression the human being is just a lump of meat. You have some problems, I think. I am Professor Karl von Vollensteen. 
 I'm P.K. 
 Such a young person with such an 
 (V.O.) That was how I met Doc, as he insisted I call him. A chance meeting between a directionless seven-year-old boy and an old German professor out collecting cacti on the African bush veldt. (pause) So began my education. 
 (V.O.) Doc believed the brain had two functions and that the South African public school system unfortunately dealt with only one. 
 The brain, P.K., has two functions. It is the best reference library ever, which is a good thing to have. Ja? But also from it comes original thought. In school you will get all filled up with the facts. Here your brain will learn where to look, how to look, how to think. And then you will have for yourself all the brains that have ever been. 
 (V.O.) Doc knew everything. He had a love of learning. But his real passion was centered around two things -- music and cacti. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Until he was fifty, Doc had a successful career as a concert pianist all over Europe. On his fiftieth birthday he gave it all up and moved to South Africa. From that point on it was all cactus. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Every specimen Doc found would be carefully photographed and catalogued. 
 If God would choose a plant to represent Him, I think He would choose of all plants the cactus. This one plant has all the blessings He tried but failed to give man. It is true. Look. The cactus is humble but not submissive. It grows where no other plant will grow. The sun bakes its back, the wind rips it from cliffs, or drowns it in the dry desert sand. Not a complaint. In good times or bad it will still flower. It protects itself from danger. 
 But it harms no other plant.   It 
 (V.O.) Doc was a hard man to disagree with. So when he decided I must spend as much time with him to remedy the flaw in my educational environment I didn't argue. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Appealing to my grandfather's stoic belief in the primacy of European culture in all its forms, Doc offered to instruct me in piano in return for my helping him locate and gather his precious cacti. 
 (V.O.) As a student of music I was never more than adequate, something I suspect Doc knew from the start. It is the love of music that is most important, he would tell me, and I would believe him. 
 Everything fits, P.K. Nothing is unexplained. Nature is one big chain reaction. Everything depends on everything else. From the smallest to the biggest. Always in life an idea starts small like a tree. 
 This tree can grow so high it can touch the face of the sky. But this little vine can choke it and keep it small. Most people are like these vines. Afraid of new ideas. Afraid to let things grow. 
 Always listen to yourself. Follow your own idea. If you are wrong, so what? You learn something. And with learning you grow stronger. And if you are right at the beginning? An even bigger bonus. 
 (V.O.) I roamed the kloofs and ridges, the dry riverbeds and jungle floors with Doc for over a year, learning more than I realize even today. (pause) I also played a lot more 'God Save the King' due to my new musical celebrity. 
 (V.O.) Barberton was a very proper English town with a proper square, a wide main street, and the colonials' overblown patriotism for a homeland most people had never seen, hanging in the air like fine dust. Not quite seen, but there nonetheless. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) The only Afrikaaners to live in Barberton were sent there to work at the government prison, just outside town. Germany had covertly supported the Boers in their two unsuccessful wars against British rule, supplying food and medical supplies as well as ample stocks of ammunition. 
 PK (V.O.)(CONT'D) Germany was an old friend, a trusted friend. And in a country where a handshake is a friendship and a friendship a bond for life, as the war in Europe grew fiercer tensions in Barberton heated up. Suspicion was afoot. Spies were everywhere. 
 Grammar: satisfactory. Science: satisfactory. Mathetmatics: satisfactory. He looks down at PK. 
 P.K., if there is one thing I know you to be that is a lot more than just satisfactory. Ja? 
 But I don't want to be known as a brain. 
 Why not? 
 Who do you think gets beaten up on all the time in school? 
 My boy, to be smart is not a sin. But to be smart and not use it, that is sin number one. And as for getting beat up on, use your brain to figure out how not to be. He hands PK the report card, his displeasure obvious. As they crest the hill the cottage comes INTO VIEW along with a parked Army car and two armed soldiers leaning against it. Seeing Doc and PK, the soldiers smarten up, raising their rifles and advancing. 
 Again it begins. The stupidity. Do not be frightened. 
 (V.O.) Karl von Vollensteen, for the failure to register as an alien during times of war in accordance with His Majesty's government orders to do so, you are hereby sentenced to be confined at Barberton prison for the duration of the war with Germany. 
 (V.O.) And again I was alone with nothing to depend on to see me through except the power of one. 
 Look, even if the scholarship doesn't come through, my old man said he'd lend you the money. 
 Morrie. 
 All right. All right. We'll call it the 'Levy Carpet Emporium Scholarship for Poor but Proud Christian Gentlemen.' How's that? 
 Tell your father I appreciate the offer. 
 God, I hate people who can't be bought. 
 Why is that? 
 I don't know.    Personality disorder. 
 Undoubtedly. 
 How do they get away with this? 
 There he is. 
 Christ, he's old. 
 And he's the best.    C'mon. leads Morrie across the gym. passes an African fighter. He stops training when he sees. He turns to another African fighter, glancing at. One by one the blacks in the gym stop training to look at. and Morrie approach the rheumy Old Man yelling at the two fighters in the ring above him in a thick Polish- Jewish accent. 
 Mr. Goldman? Solly turns to the boys. A look of bemusement comes over his face when he sees their blazers. 
 I'm the one who called you yesterday. From the Prince of Wales School? 
 (smiling) Right. 
 The champeen's manager. 
 What does it cost for you to train him? 
 Here's for six months in advance. Three hundred pounds. Solly pushes the money back. 
 I'll last. 
 Yes, sir. 
 Thank you, sir. 
 He wants to be welterweight champ of the world. 
 You like to make book on it? 
 You name them. 
 In prison, sir. 
 Yes, sir. 
 I am Kommandant Von Zyl. The professor has requested you to be his visitor so you can continue your studies on piano and he can continue with his studies on cactus. This is the first specimen? 
 Yes, sir.   Kalanchoe Thrysiflora. He holds the bucket up. 
 The professor taught you this, ja? Of course to your English town he is a prisoner, a criminal. To us who respect such learning and culture, he is an honored guest. 
 This pass is good for any time, any day. Would you like to see him now? 
 Yes, sir. 
 Come.   I will take you myself. Von Zyl rises and opens the door for PK.    They exit. 
 We have cleared a little plot behind the cellblock for the cactus. And tomorrow we have the professor's piano moved here. There is not another instrument like it in the territory. Maybe one day the two of you can give a concert for us, hey? 
 Yes, sir. 
 You like to box? 
 I would like to learn, meneer. Are the boys prisoners? 
 (laughs) No, no. The sons of the guards. See that one there? (points to a 
 Sir? 
 We have room for one more on the squad? Smit looks down at PK. 
 He's a little small, Kommandant. 
 We'll build him up then. 
 Yes, sir.   But I really don't have anyone  to spare to teach him right now.   You know, with the tournament  coming up. 
 There must be someone. 
 Piet. 
 You teach this boy basics, and you teach him good or I knock your black head flat, you hear? 
 I teach him best I know, baas. 
 We train every day. First thing in the morning. Miss two trainings, you're gone. 
 Yes, meneer. 
 Come tomorrow.     See this old kaffir. 
 Yes, meneer.     Thank you, meneer. 
 Lieutenant, a word? 
 Don't worry, little baas. Little can beat big any day. First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart. You can remember that? 
 Yes, sir. 
 No, no. Don't never call me sir. 'Specially in front of the guards. 
 What should I call you? 
 Piet.   Geel Piet. 
 Kaffir.   Towels. Geel Piet assumes his submissive posture again. 
 Okay, baas.    Coming, baas. He winks at PK and shuffles off.     A BELL SOUNDS. 
 You took a big chance talking to my father the way you did. 
 Not really. Going in I was behind on points with him. I'm English. I attend a politically suspect school. I'm a boxer. 
 He likes boxers. 
 All men like boxers. But not for their daughters. So I had to find some way to make an impression. 
 You could have picked a more agreeable topic. 
 And made much less of an impression. Talk to someone about their passion. Even if they disagree they'll remember you. It was really the most logical strategy if you think about it. 
 Do you spend hours thinking about how to deal with me, too? 
 Days. 
 Know what I think? (beat) 
 When I was little we would go to my grandfather's farm in the high veldt for holiday. 
 My father would take    me   to the top of the highest hill    and   we'd play this game, 'What Do    You   See' until we ran out of things    to   see. Do you ever play that? 
 No. 
 Want to try? 
 Sure. 
 I see a forest. It goes      on forever. There are giant      trees which keep getting bigger     and bigger over thousands of     years. Now you. 
 I see little trees growing on the forest floor, learning to grow with the little bit of light the big trees let in. Now you. 
 I see the big trees getting bigger, their leaves and branches making one great green umbrella over all of Africa. The wheel stops again at its highest point. 
 
 You tell a very good story. Her eyes sparkle, making her irresistible. PK leans forward. Maria turns her face towards him. Her lips part slightly. They kiss tenderly. 
 (V.O.) (sing-song) Can't    hit you, can't hurt you. Can't    hit you, can't hurt you. Can't    hit you, can't hurt you. That's    it. Good. Good. 
 You wear out this old man. See? See how it can work? How little beat big? 
 Yes, sir.     But when do I get to punch? 
 You not going to just punch, man. You going to combination. 
 One-two. One-two. C'mon.       Now you. One-two. One-two. 
 Oh do we have     a boxer here. Yes sir. We build      you to eight-punch combination.      The Geel Piet eight. Then you catch     afire. One-two. One-two. 
 How is the next Joe Louis this morning? 
 Try and hit me. 
 No.   C'mon. 
 No.   Try hard. 
 You are amazing. 
 And I'm going to learn the Geel Piet eight. 
 Yes, yes, yes. But right now you have to come learn the Beethoven Fifth for one hour so we can get to the cactus before it's too hot to plant. Did you bring her? 
 Parchypodium Namquanium. 
 Excellent. Excellent. We make from you a champion and a brain. 
 (furtive) Excuse me, big baas. But can I talk to the small baas? 
 Of course. 
 Every day I see you bring the bucket and in the bottom is some tobacco leaf. 
 It keeps the roots wet. 
 What happens to the leaf after? 
 A little I use in some water to make a bug spray for the plants. 
 And the rest we throw away. Geel Piet fidgets.   He drops his head, speaking low. 
 If you leave the pail when you go plant is a problem, small baas? 
 I don't understand. 
 Is like this. You see how hard the life is for the people here in prison. Only little pleasure they take from this hard life maybe sometimes when no one watching late at night -- a little smoke. Now with the big war in Europe tobacco is plenty hard to get outside. Inside it is gone. We are the forgotten in here. 
 We have bunches of leaves at home. I'll bring a whole bucketful tomorrow. 
 No, no.   Mustn't do that, little baas. 
 I don't understand. 
 What Geel Piet means is it can be dangerous. Something the guards might not want the people to have. 
 What's wrong with tobacco? Why wouldn't they want them to have it? 
 What's wrong is people whose job it is to punish. After a little while it is all they know how to do. 
 What should I do? 
 This is for you to answer. 
 I smell something not right here, ay, kaffir? He pokes Geel Piet with his truncheon. 
 (submissive) No, meneer sergeant. Everything okay here. 
 I don't fuckin' believe you. 
 If you're up to something I'll find out. 
 Schweinhund. 
 No, no.  This old kaffir's okay. Sorry to make any trouble, little baas. We  just stick to the boxing now on.  Sorry, sorry. 
 Geel Piet. Geel Piet turns. 
 I leave my bucket on the side by Doc's toilet when I practice piano. 
 PK, to me you are the champion of the world already. Come. Let us go box now with Mr. Beethoven. 
 How do you get away with this, Mr. G? Why don't they close you down? I mean, there are laws about blacks and white boxing each other. 
 Six, seven, eight, nine, ten. That's it. 
 Solly wants to see you two. 
 You wanted to see us, Mr. G.? 
 With who? 
 A black fighter! They want him to fight a black fighter? 
 Out of the question. Not even up for discussion. C'mon, P.K. 
 Who asked you to ask? 
 And you trust him? 
 You're both out of your minds. 
 Did he tell you why he wants the match? SOLLY I told you what he told me. 
 Just talking boxing -- how do I match up with Mandoma? 
 I mean besides    getting thrown out of school and    into jail, do you know what else    happens you do this? He's a     pro. The minute you fight him    you're a pro. 
 That's a good career move. Risk everything to gain nothing. Very sound business sense. 
 Tell Mr. Nguni I'll think about it. 
 Okay.    What's going on? 
 I don't know. 
 Well why don't you tell me what you do know. 
 There's an African myth about an outsider who comes one day and unites all the tribes into one against their oppressors. They call it the myth of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi -- the tadpole angel. That chanting at the school championships? 
 For you? 
 I haven't heard it in years. 
 And how did this honor fall on your broad back? 
 I told you about bringing tobacco to the prisoners at Barberton? Well after that was going for a while I learned that even though they could send and receive letters, they never did. They couldn't read or write. 
 So you did it for them. 
 Right. 
 And after that? 
 A clothing program for their families and a food program. One thing sort of led to another. 
 I can see where 'angel' would be an appropriate title. (beat) But it was, uh, this Geel Piet who was really behind all of it, wasn't it? 
 He was very good at pointing things out. 
 Man like that should be running a country, not rotting in prison. 
 He's not in prison anymore. (pause) He's dead. 
 I thought I'd surprise you. 
 Well, you succeeded. 
 Mr. Goldman was explaining the theory behind the left hook. 
 Beats talking about the weather. You may have heard about me? 
 Oh yes.   How d'you do. 
 Nice meeting you, Mr. Goldman. 
 You got a pass to come out on a weeknight? 
 Your tree pass. 
 Do you box too, Morrie? 
 Do I look that daft? 
 Morrie's the brains of the operation. 
 He means the bank. Your boyfriend has a great head for literature but none for finance. 
 (in Zulu) I see you, Nguni. 
 I see you, P.K. 
 You have heard my request? 
 Yes.    Why do you make it? 
 A woman has thrown the sacred ox bones. She has made a fire and read the smoke. 
 What did she read? 
 That the Onoshobishobi Ingelosi who is a chief must fight the one who one day will be a chief. 
 But it's not true that I'm a chief. 
 Who knows what is true and what is not. The legend of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is very powerful among the people. They see you box the Boer and always you win. They have heard the stories from Barberton. The people live with little hope. They must see if the spirit of the boy still lives in the man. 
 And   if I lose? If the spirit of the   Onoshobishobi Ingelosi does not   exist in me anymore, then what will   they live with? 
 Less hope.   But still they must 
 #1 What's this here? 
 An old family servant, Officer. From home. We just ran into each other. 
 #2 Papers, man.   Come on, be quick. Nguni reaches into his pocket. 
 #1 Where you coming from? 
 Gym, sir.   I train there. 
 #1 And you? 
 I'm his manager. 
 #2 (to Maria) And you're the sparring partner, hey? 
 #2 You have an hour to curfew and a long way to go, kaffir. Be off. 
 (subservient) Yes, baas. Going right now. 
 
 I'll do it. 
 I'm scared for you, PK. 
 Solly's a great teacher. He wouldn't put me in a fight I couldn't handle. 
 I mean about how involved you are with the black people. That scares me. 
 Because you don't understand them. 
 No I don't. 
 If you did you wouldn't be so scared. You ever have a conversation with a black person? 
 Of course. 
 Besides a servant. 
 You should sometime. 
 I hate it when you tease me. 
 Sorry. 
 (pouty) No you're not. 
 Yes I am. 
 I better go. 
 According to your submission you have ambitions to be a writer and the welterweight boxing champion of the world. 
 Yes, sir. 
 Don't you   find seeking a career as a pugilist   and reading for a degree at   Oxford a bit, how shall we put it,   intellectually 
 Lord Byron was a boxer, sir. And I've never heard anyone question his intellectual integrity. 
 I do not recall Lord Byron actually engaging in matches for money. 
 Actually, sir, there are several recorded instances of Lord Byron engaging in matches for quite large sums of money. 
 #2 Quite right. Yes. In   a letter to his wife Shelley makes mention of just such a thing. For  hundreds of pounds, actually. 
 Let's move along, shall we? As your presentational you've requested to read from a work of your own fiction. 
 Yes, sir. 
 Well, then, let us hope we'll be treated to the stirrings of another Byron. 
 The Concerto for the Southland and the Death of Geel Piet. (pause) His name was Geel Piet -- yellow Peter. He was a mix of half the blood in Africa -- Dutch, Portuguese, Zulu, Sotha, and who knew what else. His father 
 (V.O.) When I met him he had spent forty of his fifty-five years in one South African prison or another. He was a thief, a con man, a black marketeer. 
 (V.O.) He may   even have killed a man or two in   his time. But despite all that he   was one of the kindest, wisest,   most self-effacing persons I ever   knew. He was my teacher; he was   my friend. FADE TO: 
  (V.O.) Geel Piet bore no  animosity, held no hate. Should   a guard beat him he regarded it as  self-inflicted, 
 You know every time they do that I want to jump up and say I'm just a twelve-year-old. I'm not anything else. 
 To them you are. You are the one who brings the smoke, the one who writes the letters, the one who puts clothes on their children when they are cold. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. 
 But you know that's not true. 
 Who is to say what is true and what is not true, kleine baas. Doc comes running up, excited, waving a newspaper. 
 The Allied armies have crossed the Rhine into Germany. It is almost over. 
 That's great, isn't it? He turns to Geel Piet. 
 
 You are a good    faker, Geel Piet. but you don't    think it's great at all. It means     you lose your star letter writer    and tobacco importer. 
 No matter that, Professor. We always manage here. What pains me most is I lose my boxer. 
 I'll come back. 
 (adamant) No, kleine baas. You leave this damn place you don't come back never. 
 Geel Piet, when a painter finishes a work of art he doesn't lose it. He sends it out in the world so everyone can see the genius of his creation. This is what you are going to do. And to celebrate the launch of such a work of art as you have made our boxer here, I have composed an entire concerto -- 'The Concerto for the Southland' -- which it is my intention to play in concert for the prisoners before I leave. 
 Not possible. The kommandant never allow the people to have such a thing. 
 He'll think it's a concert for him and the brass. But we'll know, ay? And the people will know. 
 He'll never let black be with white here, Doc. 
 If the black is part of the 
 But the people have no instruments in this place, big baas. 
 They have their voices. Each tribe a different voice, a different language -- all singing together. It is brilliant, no? 
 Except the tribes don't trust each other. They don't even talk to each other. 
 (crestfallen) Oh. This is correct.    This stupid hatred. 
 They will do it for you, kleine baas. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. You bring the tobacco. You write the letters. You put clothes on their children's bodies and food in their bellies. All you do is ask and they all sing for you. 
 He's right. Wunderbar.    You are the smartest of us all. Geel Piet smiles as he lifts the watering pot to exit.   A truncheon stops him. All turn to Sergeant Bormann. 
 A kaffir smarter than all of us? You are a strange German, Professor. 
 That little maniac with the moustache in Berlin you admire. He is the strange German. And soon kaput, I hope. 
 If that's true you'll not be long for this place, eh, Professor? 
 No, Sergeant.    God willing. 
 And you, too, little Rooinek.     But you, kaffir, Hitler comes or goes... 
 You are going to stay with me. 
 And I will find out all your secrets once your friends are gone. One slip... 
 I have you. 
 Get out of here. 
 You see, Professor, they are not like us. A white man would scream bloody murder. 
 (V.O.) As the weeks went by and the date for the concert grew closer, my life was a whirlwind. and Geel Piet appear before various tribal leaders, talking, agreeing, shaking hands. 
 (V.O.) Having obtained the cooperation of all the tribal groups, we set about instructing them. Four men from each tribe were taught the 
 (V.O.) At night the prison hummed with the men in their cells practicing. 
 (V.O.) Our boxing squad, the Barberton Blues, won the State Championship with a perfect record. I won at 100 lbs. It was my first championship. It made me want 
 (V.O.) Finally the night of the concert arrived. The prison atmosphere, normally tense, was keening. Each prisoner entering the yard is searched. It was prison policy to keep tribal rivalries boiling. Divide and conquer. The policy of control. 
 PK (V.O.) (CONT'D) This was to be the first time in the history of the South African prison system that the tribes were allowed to mingle. And if trouble came, it would be the last. 
 Have you seen my page turner? 
 No. 
 Have you seen Geel Piet? 
 (reassuring) He will come. 
 Where is Bormann? I need Bormann to translate to the prisoners. 
 I don't know, Kommandant. 
 Is there a problem here, Kommandant? 
 I want to address these filthy kaffirs but I don't have a translator. 
 I'll translate. 
 You can speak Zulu, PK? 
 Yes, sir. 
 All right.   Listen up. 
 Tell them this concert is the gift to them from the professor who, even though he is in prison, is not a dirty criminal like them but a man of culture and learning. 
 (subtitled) The Kommandant welcomes you and looks forward to the great singing. 
 For such a man I am happy to do this. But one hair of trouble and it's finish. 
 (subtitled) He hopes each tribe will sing its best and bring honor to its people. 
 One wrong move and you get marched back to your cells and don't come out for a month. 
 (subtitled) He says tonight let us be one people under the African sky. 
 You did a good job. 
 Thank you, sir. 
 Professor? 
 No! 
 (V.O.) Geel Piet died of massive internal hemorrhage, the result of Bormann's ramming a truncheon up into the little man's body until his entrails spilled out. When I reached him he was already dead. I sat there crying, stroking his head and crying with African 
 Thank you very much. You will be notified as to the University's decision by mail. 
 Point of curiousity. 
 Your headmaster told me your work is somewhat autobiographical. 
 Yes, sir. 
 This Bormann, he was real? 
 Yes, sir. 
 Was justice ever served? 
 Yes, sir. Sergeant Bormann died of cancer... (pause) of the rectum. 
 We have to make a stop first. 
 It'll only take a minute. Solly puts the car in gear and drives off. 
 You deserted? SOLLY Whey they come take you   at thirteen years old and   tell you it's twenty-five years   in the Army, it's your duty to   desert. 
 Yes, yes.    Sorry. I drive. He opens Solly's door with some urgency.       Nguni sees Maria. 
 (smiling) Welcome, miss, welcome. 
 Thank you. 
 Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. 
 The people have come from everywhere to see you. 
 Where are the men? 
 They are to be witness. 
 No worry, miss. It is the sound of happiness. He stops the car at a door in a high wooden wall guarded by two big men. 
 We are here. 
 I don't see why we have to weigh in. They're going to fight anyway. 
 It is very important the people see everything is correct. 
 (in Zulu) I see you, Gideon Mandoma. 
 I see you, PK. 
 I just want you to know you fight a man. Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is just a name I was given at Barberton Prison. It means nothing. 
 It is not for you or me to say what it means. An old man, one of the dignitaries says something to Nguni. 
 Please. 
 It is time. 
 Onoshobishobi. 
 Onoshobishopi Ingelosi. Shobi shobi Ingelosi. 
 Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. 
 You are listening to me please. When I am shouting break, you must break at once. When a knockdown is coming, it is for an eight count. No heads, no elbows. You fight clean or by golly I am giving you penalty points. Good luck, boys. PK and Mandoma touch gloves and go to their respective corners. 
 What do you see? 
 Continue. Again, Mandoma comes charging hard. PK defends himself as best he can, trying to counter. But Mandoma's offense won't allow it. He beats on PK until the round ends. PK sits down in his corner. Morrie works on his eye. 
 God, he hits like a truck. 
 If he catches me again like that I'll run out of gas -- permanently. 
 Could've fooled me. 
 
 Look -- he's taking water. 
: 107   PK                                                         107 
 Three... four... five... 
: 
 ... seven... eight... nine... 
 How many fingers? 
 Six. 
 Where are you? 
 In a fight behind on points. 
 Okay.   Continue. 
 We're in the shit now.      Nice knowing you, Solly. 
 Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. The crowd goes wild, chanting, singing over and over as PK and Mandoma stand in center ring, arms raised. 
 The Seniors Dance is two Saturdays from now. I would like it if you could escort me. 
 Maria Marais with a rooinek at the Senior Dance? What will people think? 
 They'll think what they think and I'll think what I think. 
 And what is that? 
 I think I love you. 
 I would be honored to be your escort. 
 I didn't doubt it for a minute. 
 I'll give you a boost. stirrups his hands. Maria boosts up to the first branch of the tree. She crests the wall. 
 Thank you for tonight.    You were great. 
 Thanks, Mr. G. 
 ST. JOHN (V.O) Gentlemen. 
 You're up early, sir. 
 ST. JOHN Best time for walking. 
 Best time for running too, sir. 
 Have to put in the roadwork, sir. You know, keep those legs strong. 
 ST. JOHN Yes.   Quite a fresh bruise there. 
 I tripped. 
 ST. JOHN Maybe you should change your footwear. 
 ST. JOHN To something a little more appropriate for... (beat) roadwork. 
 Please excuse me for coming like a thief by the window. 
 You speak English? 
 You are a great fighter, Gideon. 
 Second greatest in this room. 
 But you didn't come to talk about fighting. 
 When you say to me, Onoshobishobi Ingelosi means nothing, you are right. And you are wrong. The legend gives the people hope for a good tomorrow. But hope alone will not make a good tomorrow for the people. You cannot write our letters, get us clothes, food, work. These things we must do ourselves, so we can be part of this country's good tomorrow. If we are not, the hope will disappear. The people will grow tired. The tired will grow angry and there will be no good tomorrow for anybody -- black or white. 
 What are you asking from me? 
 To be part of something you must know what everyone else knows. We have our own knowledge. We need yours. 
 We get our knowledge in schools, Gideon. We're not born with it. 
 Then it must be the same with us. 
 You have schools. 
 Yes. And teachers who cannot do more than their own ABC's. We have a system made not to teach us. 
 (anxious) I am only seventeen years old, Gideon. I cannot teach five million people how to speak English and do sums. 
 You taught the singing to thousands at Barberton Prison. You were only twelve. Mandoma rises. 
 MANDOMA (CONT'D) You are a great fighter, PK. 
 Second greatest in this room, Gideon. 
 ST. JOHN You are asking me for a lot, young man. 
 I'm only asking you to put what you've taught us into practice, sir. 
 ST. JOHN You are asking me to put the reputation of this school in jeopardy. 
 The reputation of this school, sir, is based on its integrity. 
 ST. JOHN I'm aware of that. I'm also aware of what will happen if this ever gets out. We live in a country where the rules are being rewritten. 
 Then we'd better be careful to keep a firm hand on our pens... (beat) ... sir. 
 ST. JOHN All right. I will allow it on a trial basis. Here are my conditions: you tell no one; you operate at night on Saturdays when the student body is gone; you involve no one besides yourself and Mr. Levy. If you can comply, you can have your school. 
 Ready.   Set.   Go! 
 You okay? 
 You're supposed to let me win. 
 Then you'd say I was being condescending. 
 You were guilty of that when you gave me a head start. 
 Get your formal yet? 
 Uh... no. 
 The dance is only a week away. 
 Maria... (beat) I can't come to the dance. 
 (shocked) Why not? 
 I have an obligation. 
 Can't you change it? 
 It's a permanent obligation. Every Saturday night... (beat) It starts tonight. 
 You're breaking up with me. 
 No. 
 Then what could be so important that it takes all your Saturday nights? 
 I really can't say. Maria starts to cry.   She throws her arm around him. 
 
 I'm not going away. 
 Yes you are.   I can feel it. 
 I'm not.   I'm just tutoring. 
 I started a school... (beat) ... for Gideon Mandoma and some others in the seniors library. 
 I'm losing you to a bunch of kaffirs? 
 You're not losing anything. 
 No? Are you escorting me to the dance? Are you going to see me on the only free night they give us? 
 Maria, this is important to me. 
 And my life's important to me. Damn you. 
 (breathing hard) Ach.   You see how beautiful? 
 You ever hear of glycerine, Doc? 
 Mr. Going-To-Oxford-Smarty-Pants. Of course I know about glycerine. Triglycerine. Biglycerine. Monoglycerine. What do you want to know? 
 Why you don't use it. It's only a little pill under the tongue. 
 Tongues were not made to put little pills under. When I have to start with that, I become something else. 
 Well, until you become something else, the little pills would make this easier on your heart. 
 Little pills or no little pills -- we don't find cover, we both turn into something else. 
 Look for a cave. Always in this kind of rock there is caves. Quick! Quick! PK starts to move horizontally across the cliff face like a spider on a wall. Doc follows. The rain becomes torrential. 
 Don't look at me.     Go! 
 I've found something. The rain is so heavy can barely make out Doc behind him. When he can, he sees the old man pause, breathing hard. makes his way back to Doc. Halfway there, Doc waves him forward and starts to move. reaches the small opening and slips in. 
 You okay? 
 What are you doing? 
 Exploring. 
 Why don't you just rest? 
 Plenty time for resting when I am something else. Look. 
 When does a cave have wind?    This 
 Here.   See?   There is a passage. 
 You know the pyramids are nothing more than man's attempt to recreate the first safe home our species had -- the cave. It is the ultimate safe resting place. The first place man could lay down and have a good night's sleep without worrying about waking up as something's supper. Doc stops crawling.   So does PK.   A DRIPPING can be heard. 
 You hear that? There is something waiting for us. 
 Let's hope it's not hungry. 
 Better, ja? 
 What's that smell? 
 What's that? Doc recognizes the sound. He pounces on, knocking him to the floor and covering him with his body. Not a moment too soon. For a thousand bats fill the tunnel flying through. 
 Maybe it's stopped raining. 
 Who can think about rain when you are on the edge of the great unknown cave. 
 You don't know that. 
 The bats didn't come from a shoebox, Mr. Know-It-All. 
 Sometimes I think maybe sending you off to that fancy-shmancy school was not such a good idea. 
 It was your idea. Your'e the one who pushed for me to go. 
 Ja. But who knew they do such a good job of boxing up part of 
 Which part is that? 
 The one where is all the questions. The curiosity center. Look. 
 Did I tell you? 
 Wunderbar. The whole chamber    glistens with an eerie phosphorescence. Toward one end of    the crystallized room eight stalagmites grown up from the    floor cement to form a huge crystal slab some ten feet    off the floor. A buttress of stalg- mites drip off it    forming a natural, if uneven, stairway. 
 How many hundreds of thousands of years to make this masterpiece? Everything outside can change, P.K. This remains the same. We are in the heart of Africa, P.K. The heart of Africa. 
 (O.S.) You know, if a person stayed here for 100,000 years what would be 
 (to himself) Incredible. 
 I wish we had brought the camera. Think there's enough light to shoot? 
 Doc? 
 Doc? 
 This is not funny. 
 This is incredible! The crystal. You can feel the life go right through you. Here. 
 Come try it. 
 (short) No.   That's all right.   Can we go? 
 We have only just gotten here. What's the matter, P.K.? 
 All day long you've been talking about becoming something else, about dying. You never talked about dying before. 
 I'm 87 next month.   It's natural. 
 Not to a sixteen-year-old it's not. It's painful. 
 You are right. I am sorry. Sixteen-year-old ears should only hear life. Doc starts to whistle "The Marriage of    Figaro" by Mozart. The RESONANCE of the WHISTLING off the    crystal sounds beautiful, exotic. Doc beckons PK to     join in with him. PK does so, hesitantly. Then pleased     with the sound and the feeling, more fully. 
 I'll just set you up with some coffee here, so in the morning you won't have to bother making it. 
 I didn't mean to tell you what 
 PK (CONT'D) ... becoming... (beat) ... something else. I know it's natural law and it's the way it is with everybody... (beat) I just wish it weren't with you. 
 Doc? 
 P.K.? 
 I'm here, Doc. 
 The crystal cave will be our secret, ja? 
 Whatever you say. 
 Promise. 
 I promise. 
 Ja.  Good. I rest a little. (beat) The heart of Africa, P.K. 
 The heart. 
 Christ! If someone would have told me this is where I'd be on a Saturday night, last term of my senior year, I'd call them batty. (beat) You know, you're going to owe me for the rest of your life on this one. 
 That all? I figured you'd hold me to it longer. 
 You get the insider friend's rate. 
 Thanks, mate. 
 I see you, P.K. 
 I see you, Gideon. 
 Let's get inside before the whole bloody world sees us. 
 Morrie. 
 You some great friend. 
 Let's go.    Stay to the fence. 
 All right, class.     I know you don't understand a    word I'm saying, but part of    learning a language is hearing    it spoken. So -- I am P.K. 
 P.K.  This... (taps Morrie) ... is Morrie. Now you all have a chalkboard. 
 Chalk and an eraser.      I will say 
 PK (CONT'D) Morrie will check the letter. All right? Here we go. 'A'... (in Zulu) ... say it. 'A.' 
 Excuse me. hurries over to Maria. Not a word needs to be spoken. Her presence says everything. 
 I thought you might need some help. Or I can just sit and watch. 
 Class. This is Maria. She is now the teacher. (to Maria) We're doing alphabet, from the letter 'A.' 
 'A.' 
 (in Zulu) Repeat what she says. (to Maria) Say it again. 
 'A.' 
 'A.'     Write 'A.' 
 (to Maria) You are one brave Boer, Miss Maria. 
 Thank you. 
 And you are one lucky English. He kids PK.   PK blushes. 
 Good night, Gideon. He playfully pushes Gideon out the gate and closes it. He turns to Maria and Morrie. 
 Well, I   think I'll go... um... lay on   my back and count the cracks   in the ceiling. 'Night. Nice to   see you, Maria. 
 Good night, Morrie. 
 I am one lucky English. They embrace and kiss. 
 P.K.     Can I ask you a favor? 
 Anything. 
 We don't have to go in    or anything. You can hear the music    from outside. I'd love to     have one dance with you before    I graduate. 
 Done. 
 I feel so good. Race you to the gate. 
 You need a headstart? 
 No. 
 We made it!   We made it! 
 Sorry. I couldn't bear the suspense after I read mine.   I had to open it. PK looks at his letter. 
 Three months and we're out of here. 
 You're out of here. 
 What the hell are you talking about? 
 (reading) 'Dear sir. It is our pleasure to inform you that you have been accepted to matriculate at Trinity College, Oxford,' etc., etc., etc. 
 It says nothing about the scholarship. 
 A technicality. 
 St. John wants to see you two in his study. 
 Good news travels fast. 
 I'll get showered and changed. 
 He said to come as you are. Immediately. 
 Wanted to see us, sir? 
 ST. JOHN Yes.   Come in.     Close the door. 
 ST. JOHN This is Brigadier Bretyn from the police department. 
 ST. JOHN He has come to deliver, in person, an order to close the Saturday school. 
 Why? 
 Because it is illegal. 
 We're only teaching them how to read and do sums. 
 You don't have certification to do that. 
 Prince of Wales is a certified school. 
 Yes.   But not certified for that 
 Can he do this, sir? 
 Of course I can do it. Would I be here if I couldn't? Come now meneer headmaster. Let's end this now. I have a full day ahead of me still. 
 ST. JOHN (resigned) The Saturday school is to be disbanded until further notice. 
 Thank you, meneer headmaster. Your cooperation in this matter is very appreciated. Good day. 
 You know it can't go on like this forever. 
 What can't? 
 What you're doing. 
 I'm just doing my job. And if you'll take some advice, you should just do yours. 
 Is that really the end of it, sir? 
 ST. JOHN For the moment I'm afraid it is. 
 If we let them get away with it on our own grounds, it will never 
 ST. JOHN History disputes you. 
 History takes too long. 
 ST. JOHN Yes it does. But it is never kind to those who try to hurry it. 
 I feel we should resist, sir. 
 ST. JOHN So do I, P.K. But this is not a subtle government. They mean to have their way and damn the consequences. And I cannot jeopardize this school, no matter how I personally feel. I'm sorry. (beat) I heard you were accepted at Oxford. 
 Yes, sir.   Received notification today. 
 ST. JOHN Well, congratulations. 
 Thank you, sir. 
 ST. JOHN To both of you. 
 (tight) Thank you, sir. 
 ST. JOHN We'll talk before you go. 
 Yes, sir.   Will that be all? 
 ST. JOHN That'll be all. 
 I'd like to see Maria Marais please. 
 Sorry. She's not allowed visitors. 
 Well, if I could just talk to her. 
 Sorry. 
 Morrie.   Morrie. 
 What? 
 I want to show you something. 
 What time is it? 
 Can I see it later? 
 No.   Come on. 
 You know, when we get to Oxford -- separate rooms. 
 Will you hurry. 
 Is there some girl out there waiting for me? 
 Yeah. Stunning. Breasts like casabas. Just waiting for you. 
 Bullshit. 
 What do you think? 
 I think you're fooling yourself into thinking the bastards won't 
 This is a church. Didn't you ever hear of the Christian concept of sanctuary? 
 Yes. But I'm not the one who has to respect it. 
 Even the Boer has limits, Morrie. 
 I'm sure he does, but I'd still like to see a big bolt on the inside door. 
 Mr. Levy? 
 They want us to close the school. 
 I know. 
 We are still game. 
 So are we. 
 (cool) I was in the neighborhood. Maria puts her finger to her lips and waves him in.       climbs through the window. CUT TO: 
 (whispering) They're sending me away to school in Pretoria. I told my father I wouldn't go. He said if I didn't he'd see they arrest you and ruin your chances. I couldn't let him do that. 
 When do you go? 
 Next week. (beat) I want to make love to you, P.K. PK's eyes fill with her words.     She releases him.    They look at each other. 
 I do. 
 If you'll all be seated we can begin. 
 So far so good. 
 I want to thank you all for having the courage to come tonight. (in Zulu) Thank you. 
 I will be teaching the first part of class tonight and Mr. Levy will teach the second. A woman whispers something to Mandoma.     Mandoma raises his hand. 
 Gideon? 
 Miss Marais.   Will she not be coming? 
 Not anymore. 
 See. 
 I see.    You see.     We see. 
 Boy. 
 I see the boy. 
 Girl.    I see the girl. 
 P.K., it's me. 
 I wanted to say goodbye to my students... (beat) ... and to you. 
 We see the girl. 
 Once warned.     Twice punished. 
 You're violating the sanctity of the church. 
 No. You are with your damned race mixing ideas, rooinek. 
 At least let the women go. 
 You want everything to be equal, little Boetie. Why not men and women too? Just then Morrie throws the bolt. 
 Now! He goes to charge out the door, but to his chagrin the door does not open, locked from the outside. 
 Locks keep people out but they also keep them in. He has walked right up to Morrie, not taking his eyes off Morrie's for a moment. Morrie meets his gaze evenly. The moment is broken as Bretyn's baton slams into Morrie's stomach, dropping him to this knees. 
 Get up, you bloody commie Jew! He bangs Morrie hard in the jaw, knocking him out cold. 
 Captain. The two police lines start to move towards each other, sandwiching the Africans, PK and Maria. 
 No.    Wait.   We'll leave. 
 Too late. You never should have come. At the ready. 
 No!    Stop! 
 Now. 
 
! 
 Maria! 
 Daniel.    No. Marais glares at PK. 
 
 In case the scholarship doesn't come through. 
 Why are you so bloody stubborn? You don't belong in a South African university any more than I belong in the priesthood. Will you take my father's loan? 
 There a Mr. P.K. here? 
 It's your scholarship. Morrie grabs the telegram. 
 Sign here.   Odd name -- P.K. 
 What's your name? 
 Waldo. 
 You're not one to talk about names. 
 What's it say? 
 Doc's missing. 
 Since his pneumonia last year I've had one of the men drop by once a week to see if he needed anything. Of course you know the professor. He never did. PK looks out at the cactus garden, watered now by drip irrigation. 
 At the beginning of the week he wasn't home so I decided to drop by myself. Waited a whole day here. When he didn't come back I sent search parties. After three days I sent the telegram. Seven days is a long time for him to be gone. Do you have any ideas where he went? 
 (V.O.) So Mr. Schmartypants. It did not take you so long to figure out what happened. I hope you forgive me for not saying goodbye, but I did not think it would be necessary between us. What could I say you don't already know. (MORE) 
 DOC (V.O.) (CONT'D) That I love you with all my heart? That you have given me more in our ten years of friendship than three lifetimes could fill? That the last thoughts I have before becoming something else will be of music, cactus, and you? You know all this. 
 (V.O.) Last night this music came into my head. It is my music for Africa. My music for you. So go. Be welterweight champion of the world. Be a writer. A great writer. Remember -- the only thing between a dream and a reality is you. Until we meet again, your friend, Doc. PK looks down at Doc as a PIANO CONCERTO, beautiful, haunting, BEGINS TO PLAY. 
 Hello?     Mr. G?     Anyone here? SOLLY (O.S.) In here. 
 Mr. Goldman, why isn't anybody 
 For what reason? 
 This is because of me, isn't it? 
 No, no.   I have to get back to school. 
 Thank you for everything. 
 You're a very good writer. The subject matter is a little inflammatory but the style is interesting. 
 What are you doing here? 
 I came to inform you that you will not be receiving aid from the National Scholarship Fund. Neither will you be admitted to any of the South African universities. Here are your applications back. 
 I told you when you came to my house. I am first a member of my tribe and I will defend it any way I know how. 
 (O.S.) They don't want you here any more than they want me. 
 Take the hint. Screw the scholarship. Come on. Let's leave. 
 If I leave or if I stay in South Africa it's because I choose to, not because they choose for me. 
 Where are you going? 
 Save my place at Oxford. 
 P.K., goddammit! 
 Save my place. Morrie's grip releases. 
 (V.O.) Dear Morrie.     Here is how it works. 
 (V.O.) Setting charges and drilling the rock. The only way for the raw ore he takes from the sides of the stope to get to the haulage below is to pass through the spout of a funnel and out the steel doors at the bottom -- sixty feet down. 
 (V.O.) Halfway down the spout area is a set of six tungsten steel bars called a grizzly which catch all the rocks too large to make it through the funnel mouth to safe haulage. 
 (V.O.) These are taken care of by a grizzly, an explosives expert whose job it is to keep the ore flowing, and since when the ore doesn't flow, neither does the money, working the grizzly is a very crucial and therefore very well-paid position. Three months' 
 Are you crazy?     To sign on for a year? 
 You said I was the best you ever taught, sir. 
 And you are, boyo. The absolute best. 
 THOMAS (CONT'D) But even the best doesn't survive a year on the bars. Down in that damn tube the luck runs out sooner than later. You may be a genius at reading the rock but you ain't no fuckin' fortune teller. 
 You worked grizzly a year. 
 And let me show you what I have to show for it to this day. 
 And that's thirteen years after the fact, boyo. 
 Something wrong? 
 (unconvincing) Nothing. 
 One double brandy. One... (derisive) lemon soda. 
 Come on, then. 
 On being the best damned blaster ever taught by Ian Thomas. Cheers. 
 Another. 
 Sure you don't want one? 
 I don't like the taste. 
 Taste?     You don't drink for the taste. 
 Hell's comin'. 
 Drillers. He's got a powder pain from breathin' too much of that damn gelignite. The pain's bad enough. Mixed with a little alcohol it's fuckin' lethal. 
 Come on.   We ain't got much time. 
 The two most dangerous things you'll ever see in your life, boyo: a hangup of rock that won't blast free on first shot and a driller with a powder headache drinkin'. 
 (V.O.) Dear Morrie. To answer your question: yes--sports are played here, but only in the loosest sense of the words "sport" and "play". The rules are different for everything, in games as well as in the rest of our lives. The managers, the foremen, the company people. They live apart from the miners. They have families. Proper gardens. Sunday dinners. The miners--the crud, as we are called -- don't. This is a society of men, many of whom have pasts better left behind. Future does not apply. It is a society only in the loosest sense of the word. The laws of survival are simple-- you either do or you don't. 
 You know, Rasputin, I had them right where I wanted them. Another minute they were done for. Rasputin claps on the back and addresses him in Russian, to which responds with a smile. The two men walk off together. 
 (V.O.) Friendships are rare--arising out of mutual need rather than 
 (V.O.) The Africans who come here looking for work are driven by a different desperation--drought, famine, locusts. 
 (V.O.) They come and risk their    lives to send money back home to    the families sitting on the    barren farms, starving, waiting    for death or rain. When the boxes are closed the other five men in the crew lift them and follow out. 
 (V.O.) Superstition runs deep in them, so a good grizzly man attracts a good crew. On the bars, the longer you live the luckier you are. And by association -- they are. 
 Baas.   Baas. 
 (V.O.) Hangups are the worst of it. When the top of the funnel gets blocked up and the ore won't flow. 
 (V.O.) The only way to unblock it is to set a charge to blow inward. And the only way to do that is to set the charge in mud, which means climbing up to the mouth of the stope and coming face-to-face with the devil. 
. 
 (V.O.) Sometimes the rock doesn't need the provocation of explosives. Sometimes the earth shifts... (beat) a pebble moves... (beat) you talk too loud... (beat) and in the moment before you are turned into something else by fifty tons of rock you understand why it is called grizzly. 
 I wait for you, baas. 
 Let's clean her off and call it a night, hey? 
 (V.O.) The Africans think the longer you survive the luckier you are. And the luckier you are the longer you survive. I know there's something inherently wrong with their logic. Still, I'm beginning to see their point. Especially with less than six months to go. CUT TO: 
 Come in. 
 Ay, man. If you'd let him win once in a while we could take a little book on it here. 
 He doesn't care if he wins.     He just likes to play. 
 And you? 
 I like to win. 
 Which    is why I'm about visiting you.     You've come on the board, man.     There are odds on your making    it or not. 
 How are they? 
 (low) Not in your favor, my boy. 
 Why are you telling me this, Jocko? 
 When you come up on the boards, boyo, it's time to bow out. It's an omen. 
 I bow out you can't make book. 
 PK, it's not a bet I want to collect. 
 Tell me, Jocko, how high will the odds go on something like this? 
 The shorter your time, the higher they go. With you probably ten, twelve, thirteen to one when you're short a month. 
 When the odds hit the top put me in against all bets for two hundred quid. 
 I did not come here to solicit your bet. 
 I know that. I appreciate it. But if you don't take it, someone else will. 
 All  right. You're a bleery fool. And  I'll be prayin' every night it's  the only bet I ever have to pay  off on. 
 And so will I. Jocko rises to exit. 
 You should let him win once in a while. 
 When he wins it won't be because I let him. 
 Checkmate. 
 Did you hear a blast whistle? 
 No, baas. 
 I never heard a drill at night. 
 It's not a ghost. It's just some driller trying to squeeze extra pay. Come on. moves forward. The Africans follow him out of the elevator with reluctance. 
 (whispered) Baas. 
 Not the first bloody thing! 
 Bad sign, baas. 
 Bad drilling's more like it. Come on. Let's get it going. 
 (whispered) What's the matter with them? 
 They say juju. Bad magic is in the mine tonight. 
 She's playing with us tonight. Fuse set? 
 Go on. 
 I stay with you, baas. 
 That's an order. 
 One... two... three. A MUFFLED BLAST comes from the other side of the hangup deep in the stope. freezes, confused, and then a SECOND BLAST goes off. The hangups starts to give. And 
. 
 
! 
 #1 He's dead.   No doubt about it. 
 #2 You give me a fair odds on ten quid? 
 #1 Four to one. 
 #2 Make it a sixer and you got me. 
 #1 You're on. 
 #2 Anyone else?   Six to one he's dead. 
 #3 He says someone was up there. Blasted it out on PK from the other side? 
 #4 Who's the driller? 
 #3 Botha. 
 #4 No one drills Botha's stope but Botha, and he only works days. 
 (strangled) Help.   Help. 
 (V.O.) Help. 
 
! 
 
 PK! PK! 
 Well, look at ya now, boyo. Up and at 'em in no time. And rich as a fuckin' lord. 
 What's this? 
 Your ticket to ride. Two hundred quid at fourteen to one. 
 But I didn't make it.   I'm a month short. 
 Not according to managment. They cashed you out at twelve months for eleven worked. Last thirty days was bonus. And until someone shows me a calendar reads different, twelve months and a year are one and the same kind of thing. And the bet was for a year. So get yourself mended and get your ass out of here. 
 There's someone I have to see first. Jocko grows uncomfortable. 
 What do you want to go pressin' it for? You're rich, lad. You're whole. Why do you want to go pressin' it? 
 Because I want to know. 
 Know what?   That the man has 
 No worries. The luckier you are, the longer you last. The longer you last, the luckier you are. 
 Checkmate!   Checkmate! 
 There's an end to everything, boyo. Even luck. 
 Well I guess this is goodbye, my friend. I'll never forget you. 
 PK. Botha.   Nyet, nyet.   Nyet, Botha. PK does not respond. 
 
 PK.   Botha.   Nyet. Nyet.    PK. 
 Who you lookin' for? 
 Botha. The driller from stope number five. 
 He's at the bar. 
 Thanks. 
 I wouldn't disturb him. There's a reason he's there and we're here. 
 #1 PK.   You're not going to go in, 
 Is Botha the driller in there? 
 #2 Ja. Always we give him one hour alone before we open. You don't know this because you work at night, but it is the rule. 
 Ja.   In one hour it is pffft. He motions a man falling on his face. 
 Are you Botha? 
 Ja. 
 I'm.   I worked your grizzly. 
 Ja. 
 Why'd you try to kill me? 
 Because I missed the first time, rooinek. 
 Jaapie Botha. 
 You remember, rooinek. 
 Botha.     It was thirteen years ago. 
 Because    of you they expelled me. Because    of you my father beat me. Threw me    out from the farm. Because    of you. 
 Botha. We've made a lot of money working together. Let the past be the past. 
 You ruined the country, all you rooineks. You come and ruin the country. 
 No, Jaapie Botha. It's hate ruining the country. 
 Jaah. 
 Boer hate. 
 Our country. 
 #1 (V.O.) He's dead.   He's dead. 
 First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart. 
 Want to see the wages of hate? Botha feels the punches.   He steps back, faltering. pursues him. 
 Here.   Here is what hate gets you. 
 For my chicken. For Geel Piet. For Doc. For Mandoma. For Maria. 
 For Africa. 
 (V.O.) 
