 
 You ever see chemical interrogation before? 
 These assholes are agency? 
 We're all C.I.A. But these guys are from a page that ain't on the map. 10   EXT. JUNGLE - LATE AFTERNOON Nico in the point,   leading Fox and the three CIT (Chemical Interrogation Team)   men down an unmarked, twisting trail. We see from Nico's   gait that he is athletic, a born leader and totally at home   in the jungle. 11   TRAIL - LATE AFTERNOON snakes along a ridge line, high enough to give us a view and let us know these guys are way out in the boonies. 
 How long till we're across the border? 
 We've been over for the past hour. The group continues along the ridge. 
 What are you looking at, hotshot? 
 (indicates cigarette glow) Why don't you light a bonfire? 
 Just drive the taxi, ace. 
 (to Zagon) They're in there. 
 I don't trust these yo-yo's. 15   FULL SHOT - BASE CAMP We see Nico moving like a shadow from one defensive position to another, checking the perimeter. We can vaguely hear him ROUSTING the Cambodian lookouts, speaking in dialect. 
 That's the nice thing about modern technology. You don't have to wait for results. 
 (to first prisoner) Where is it, Charley? You got six tons of our shit -- The prisoner tries to speak, but he's in such torment all that comes out is a blood-curdling wail -- 21   EXT. BAST CAMP - NICO 
 Don't you die on me, fucker -- 
 (from the side) What the hell's wrong? 
 (throws the prisoner down) This pussy can't hold his liquor. 
 (to second prisoner) So my little doctor bag doesn't                      * scare you, eh? Well I don't need                     * it to open your yap.                                 * Zagon reaches to a scabbard on his Western belt, pulls out a fearsome serrated blade -- a cross between a bowie knife and a scalpel. He steps toward the prisoner, displaying the blade in the lantern light. 
 (O.S.) (to prisoner) Where's our load, you sack of slime? What did you do with my shit? -- 27   punches  the prisoner full in the face, holding the knife handle  in his fist to double the force of the blow and to terrify  him with the proximity of the blade. The prisoner crashes  sideways, face bloody -- 
 I'm gonna teach you good. I'm gonna teach you never to fuck with my opium -- 
 (to prisoner) You're a hard nigger, aren't you, boy? You took it from the Chinks... you took it from the French. You'll be fucked if some Yankee peckerwood's gonna start your gums flapping -- Nico watches Zagon move the knife blade closer to the prisoner. 
 -- Well, you're gonna chirp for me, tough guy. You're gonna sing like a choir -- 
 What the fuck does this have to do with military intelligence? 
 Your orders are 'assist and observe' cherry -- Zagon turns to face Nico -- 
 (to Nico) Back off, partner -- Zagon turns from Nico. He moves close to the second prisoner, close as a lover, displaying the blade in the lamplight. 
 (to second prisoner) I'm gonna start carving at your ankles. We'll throw your feet in that box right over there. Then I'm gonna take off your arms -- One of the CIT men yanks the prisoner's leg forward, clamping it to the ground with his hands. The prisoner still hasn't flinched. He seems as locked into this dance of death as Zagon. 
 (can't take much more) Fox -- 
 Shut up, Nico. 
 You can disappear as easy as this slope, kid -- 
 Are you crazy?!! (as Nico jerks free) What the fuck's the matter with you?!!! Nico is shaking with rage and fear. He takes several steps away from the hooch, then draws up abruptly. Nico pulls his .45 from his holster, pops the safety, starts back for the hooch -- 
 Nico! 
 I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me later. 
 I'll cover this. Get back to the L.Z. -- (as Nico resists) -- I'll fix it! Get out! Get the fuck outa here! The CIT man calls out to the Cambodian troops, in dialect, pointing at Nico. The soldiers start toward Nico, as if to seize him. Fox, too, starts yelling to the troops in dialect, apparently countermanding the orders of the CIT men. The troops, confused, hold up for a moment. 
 (to Nico) I'll call for a chopper... get outa here! 
                                   * Mama, look at this -- all done by hand. 
 Nico had one just like this.   Thank you, Cora. Cora, an aunt, proudly smiles. 
 I think we got a little problem here. 
                                  * (winking at the women) I carried him for the last nine months, you take him for the next diaper. 
 (to all) That's what you get for not marrying a Sicilian. Sara lets Nico struggle a moment, then takes over.               * 
                                     * My brave husband. He's not afraid of thieves and muggers, but he's terrified when his son poops in his pants. Toscani relatives look on with approval at the happy couple and their baby. 
 (indicates Nico across the patio) Toscani holds the record... for havin' more relatives under federal indictment than any other cop in Chicago. 
 Look at these stiff dicks. A free meal and they come out like flies. 37   STREET OUTSIDE NICO'S HOUSE - DAY 
 I didn't do nothing, Counselor.    I'm clean. 
 Eight more days, Lieutenant. You better start preparing your defense. 
 Baby, I'm gonna put you on retainer. 
 You passed the bar? I make it a point never to pass the bar. Jackson sees Nico and Sara across the yard, waves and          * starts toward them -- 39   BACK TO BRANCA AND LUIGI 
 Now this cop.    She can bust me any day. 40   NICK, SARA AND ROSA (NICO'S MOTHER)                            * Jackson comes up, makes a theatrical appreciation of Nico's stylish attire, kisses Sara and greets Nico's mom warmly.      * She starts oohing and ahhing over the baby. 41   VARIOUS SHOTS 
 Look at this little bundle.    What a cupcake! 
 You give up being the D.A. and hurry up and find the right fella, Jax. You might have time for one of these yourself. 
                                    * Nico, will you let the woman catch her breath? 
 Watanabe!   Say hey, Doc. 
 You're a father now. Are you gonna take me up on my offer? 
 I'm happy, Branca.    I like what I do. Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a smile, pats Nico's cheek. 
 Look at this face! Six-foot-four, pretty as the statue of David. And he's a cop! Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops observe and try to listen. 
 This face should be sticking up from a white shirt. It should be a banker, a businessman, someone who earns a decent living for his family! 
 We're happy. 
 Nickels and dimes. Your wife's a woman with class. What did she run -- a ballet school...? 
 An art gallery. 
 Same thing. She wants a husband who carries a briefcase, not a shoulder holster. Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes meet Nico's. 
 You wanted to get shot, you got shot. You wanted to get knifed, you got knifed. You've had your fun. Basta! Enough! 
 Let your family help you, Nico. 
 (lightly) Uncle Gio, that kind of help I don't need. I'd rather get shot by someone I don't know. Jackson and Lukich crack up. The others follow.   For the moment, the tension is dispelled. 
 What are you doing in here, Mama? Go join the party... Nico comes down the hall, tucking in his shirt -- stops to give his mother a squeeze. O.S. from the bedroom: the sound of QUIET SOBBING. Nico glances in. 46   INT. NURSERY - DAY                                           * Sara and another woman sit on the bed, comforting a 60-ish   * grandmother Zingaro, who is crying. Nico comes in. He kneels before MRS. ZINGARO, concerned. 
 Mrs. Z. (tries to be light) Is this a way to act on the day of my son's baptism? The poor woman can't meet Nico's eyes. 
                                * It's Lucy.   She's gone again. Nico glances from Sara to Rosa.                              * 
 It's that kid from the bar on Damen? The one with the drugs? 
 Listen to me, Mrs. Z. Are you listening? (as the woman nods miserably) I have to go to work now. But I'll come by tonight. You'll be at the bakery? 
 MRS. ZINGARO Si, Nico. 
 We'll talk, okay? We'll find a way to take care of this. 
 (into mike) Unit Ten Tango X-ray.    We're up and clear. 49   EXT. VARIOUS STREETS - UNMARKED CAR 
 (O.S.) I promised the Lieutenant, I'm gonna take care of you. Broken windows and lost kittens for your last week. WIDEN SHOT to include Nico and Jackson. 
 And then you're gonna come visit me in a nice, clean, air conditioned office -- 
 I gotta take a quick leak. Stay put. 
                                 * Why the fuck don't you assholes                        * leave me alone?                                        * 
 Gentlemen. One Jacket treats him like he doesn't exist, and begins to pick his nose. FIRST ARMY JACKET (to others) I thought this was a kosher bar. They didn't allow no pork in here. The two others snicker, then so does the rest of the bar. Nico holds out a photo of a young girl (Lucy). 
 You seen this girl? SECOND ARMY JACKET I seen the top of her head. 
 That's witty. 
 Come on.   Show me something. No one moves. 
 I get it.   It's a gay bar.   Is that it? 
 You seen the top of her head, huh? Like I seen your mother's -- (to another guy) Or was it yours? (to a third) Or yours? (slaps him fero- ciously) I couldn't tell, it looked like her ass -- Nico rages like a beast. 
 Come on, motherfuckers.    Do it. Do it! One man -- Nico lunges for the Bad Dude, grabs him like he's about to tear his face off -- 
 Upstairs! (in terror) She's upstairs! 4-D! Nico drags the Dude from behind the bar.     Holding him, Nico turns, glowering, to all. 
 You cocksuckers are brave enough with 14-year-old girls. 55A   INT. FLOPHOUSE HALLWAY 
 (to Bad Dude) Get outta here. We look in the apartment. 
 (to Pimp) This ain't your day, kid. 
 Wait, man.   It ain't like it looks -- 
 That's two years. He jerks the Pimp back, rips open a drawer.    More pills and glacene bags. 
 That's four. (twisting the   Pimp's neck toward   Lucy) She'll get you eight   more. And I'm just warming up   -- Lucy is crying hysterically. Nico flings the Pimp, face          * bloody, toward the open door.                                    * 
 (to Nico, indicat- ing drugs) Take it, baby. It's all yours -- 
 Get your clothes on, Lucy. 
 There's money. Three grand in the mattress... (begging) ... I can get ya more -- 
 Hey, sister, what it be? 
                                * Don't you fuckin' move.                           * 
 Let him alone! He's beautiful! 
 Not when I get through with him. Nico lifts the Pimp by the throat, pins him to the wall. 
 No, man, wait! I'll give you something! Something big! 
 Please, Nico!    Don't! 
 It's huge! I swear it! A shipment... coming in next Tuesday -- 
 Shipment, my ass. 
 This is square! On my mother's soul! You can't send me up -- Nico glances to Lucy. Half of him wants to tear the Pimp apart, the other half doesn't want to make the poor girl's life any more tragic. Besides, he's a good cop -- and maybe this "shipment" is on the level. 
 I heard it from a hooker friend of mine. She's banging some big coke lawyer, he told her. I swear to Jesus! 
 What lawyer? 
 I don't know. (sees Nico doesn't believe him) That platinum chola... Carla DeCarlo... she knows. Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp's throat. 
 She got popped this afternoon. She's downtown. Red dress, lizard shoes -- 
 It's okay, girl. Mama Jax is here. 
 (to Nico) That was some leak you took. From the door of the bar, several bloodied heads peek. 
 Broken windows and lost pussy cats, huh. Jackson checks out her battered partner. 
 You're one crazy bastard, Toscani. Nico opens the rear door, helps Jackson ease Lucy in. 
 We'll get her some clothes and a bath. I'm not bringing her home to her grandmother like this. DISSOLVE TO: 
 I don't get you, Toscani. (beat) What the hell are you doing being a shitheel cop? With your background? For a long moment Nico says nothing.   Then, quietly, look- ing straight ahead: 
 When I was overseas, I saw some things. Things that eat your guts out. Things that stay in front of your eyes like they were burned in and branded. He turns to Jackson. 
 You can walk away from them, Jax. You can quit, but you know it's still going on. You try something anyway -- (smiles a moment) -- I know I'm not going to change the world. I can't stop the tonnage coming in, I can't fight the boys behind the desks pushing their buttons -- 
 But maybe here, huh? (indicates street) Maybe in my own city, my own neighborhood, on my own block -- maybe here I can do something. 
 That's why I'm a shitheel cop. 
 (O.S.) You can see your client. As soon as she's through eating her dinner. 
 Carla... Carla -- I just want the name of your boyfriend -- 
 I got 200 boyfriends. The hooker, Carla DeCarlo, slaps the box away, cursing in Spanish. 
 Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon! 
 (to Nico) Why can't you sons-a-bitches ever treat someone with a little respect? 
 (walking away) Take it easy, sister. 
 I ain't your goddamn sister.   We ain't got the same mother, motherfucka. Carla fires one final parting salvo of obscenities, then sags back among the women. Carla starts to cry. Jackson comforts her; Carla responds, lets herself be comforted. CUT TO: 66   EXT. DOWNTOWN - FINANCIAL DISTRICT - DAY Jackson, back in her normal daytime wear, exits a building. She gets into Nico's car. 
 The lawyer's name is Abandano. He's on the third floor. I got a look at him. I couldn't get how he's connected, but according to Carla, he's a lousy lay. 
 Maybe we can bust him for that. Jackson spots something, gestures subtly out window -- 
 That's our stud. 
 (pissed off) -- I brought you in for your muscles, Nardo, not your mouth. 
 (scared) I'm sorry, boss. 
 Your English is getting good... You're showing it off. Showing it off on the street -- 
 I keep quiet.    I never talk no more -- 
 Make yourself useful. (indicates empty wine bottle on table) Get downstairs, bring me one of these. (as Nardo stands, starts for back hallway) Then get back to work. 75   INT. RESTAURANT BASEMENT STOREROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 
 (to himself) I thought I was dead, man. (whistles with relief) I thought I was fucking dead. 
 You were right, cabron.                            * 
 (to busboys) Clean up this mess. 
                                  * Who knows who else is talking --                       * 
                                  * He was a young fool.                                   * 76   BACK IN UPSTAIRS DINING ROOM Salvano and Chi Chi emerge from the basement steps and walk toward their booth. 
 We're crazy waiting for this bullshit 'shipment.' Let me waste the other fucker now. 
 Be patient. This will be done the way it was planned. CUT TO: 
 Toscani, you're going to have me doing time. 
 Lighten up, Jax. No one's bringing this into court. 
 Except against us. 
 I don't give a shit how we do it. I just wanna get there. Jackson gives Nico a dirty look, but stifles her protest. 
 I thought you said you were gonna protect me. Cover my butt. Be my guardian angel -- Nico hears something through the earphones.    Gestures for silence -- 80   ANGLE THROUGH OFFICE WINDOW Chi Chi listens with increased intensity to something on the phone. He starts writing it down -- 81   BACK TO NICO In unmarked car.   He's writing it down too. 
 I got the shipment.                                  * 
 What?    What's he saying? 
 (scribbling furiously) '... Engine block has cleared customs. Serial number VA-748. Pick up Tuesday, 3 May as authorized.' 
 (V.O.) Unit Ten Tango X-ray. I need a vehicle registration I.D. 
 (V.O.) Go ahead, please. 
 (V.O.) '86 Lincoln.    Illinois 354 Dog '67.                * 
 (V.O.) Vehicle registration follows. Leaseholder: Ramon Testamente, registered alien. Nation of origin: Venezuela. Do you wish criminal record search? 
 (into mike) I want to know when he wipes his                     * behind.                                              * 85   SERIES OF SHOTS As Nico and Jackson tail the Lincoln out of the industrial zone into a fancier, non-Latin neighborhood. On the sidewalks we glimpse theatergoers, fashionable white couples out on the town. 86   LINCOLN 
 Salvano? 
 Jackpot. 
 Two for dinner? 
 Two for drinks. They elbow up to the packed bar, standing.   Nico squints toward the rear dining room. 
 Gimme something stiff.   I need it. 
 Who doesn't? 
 (O.S.) You'll have your engine block next Tuesday, boss. 93   BACK TO AND JACKSON 
 Why couldn't it be a week from Tuesday? I could read about it in the paper. Nico grabs her waist, pulls her onto the dance floor, and does a playful twirl. 
 Cheer up, partner.   I'm gonna make you famous. 
 You missed a few spots, boys. 
 I'm takin' it home t'a make kilbasa, boss. 
 This ain't a bust -- it's a convention. 
 Don't you like company, Luke? (sarcastic) We got all the scouts here -- Drug Enforcement Agency, the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms -- 
 WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.) Keep this channel clear, Toscani. We realize Nico, Jackson and Lukich are wired, with mikes out of sight under their coats. Nico glances to the pick- up, near to which three men can be spotted in the alley. Apparently one of them is the walkie-talkie voice. 
 (into mike) This is our channel, dickhead. And our collar. ANOTHER WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.) That's enough, all of you! Keep this channel clear. 
 (sarcastic) '... And so I quit the police department... got myself a steady job -- ' The van accelerates slightly, turns a corner, vanishes. Silence. 
                                * They spotted me. I'm too good- looking to be a meat slopper.                       * 1ST WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.) Will you hot dogs shut up? The van returns.   On a cross street.   Heading behind the packing plant. 
                                  * (to Lukich)                                  * You're too ugly. 
 (into hidden mike) Here we go, boys and girls -- (to Jackson) You stay put.                                       * 
 (into hidden miki) It's going down now. Move! 103   EXT. REAR OF PACKING PLANT - DAY The station wagon men heave their rear door open, the van men start to open their side door. The Lincoln is stopped at a distance. Suddenly -- 104   AND LUKICH burst from the rear door of the packing plant, guns drawn. 
 Police! 105   QUICK CUTS - VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN grab for their weapons -- 
 (shouts; points) Nico!   The Lincoln! 
 (to Salvano) How many kilos you got in there, Skivuzo? Salvano couldn't answer if he wanted to. The other cops look at Nico with awe. Lukich whips the van door open, yanks a tarp off the cargo. 123   INT. VAN The engine block sits in a wooden shipping frame, wrapped with industrial plastic. Nico climbs into the van, rips the plastic sheeting off, grabs the wood slats of the shipping frame, tears them off. In the background, ambulances are arriving to care for the wounded cops and criminals. 
 What kinda fuckin' high is this? CUT TO: 
 -- I'll tell you what this cop is. He's a fucking menace! 
 You see what he did to me?! 
 Your problem is being handled right now, Mr. Salv -- 
 Yeah? Well, it shoulda been handled twelve hours ago. I don't know who's running this outfit, but somebody better get his goddamn wires straight! 
                           * (into phone) -- yes, sir... yes, sir, I understand -- 
 That maniac should be wearing a number, not a badge. Salvano knows what the call is about. He straightens the tie beneath his bruised neck, assuming the attitude of a respectable citizen who has been unjustly wronged. 
                           * (into phone) -- count on it, sir. Right. You'll have our full cooperation. Neeley hangs up. Glances dubiously to Halloran. Then turns     * grimly to Salvano, Chi Chi and the lawyer Abandano. 
                           * You're free to go. 
 (to Nico, DEA & AIF) -- This is no reflection on the work you officers have done. I feel, and the whole department feels, extremely proud of your initiative and gallantry. That "spare me the horseshit" look on Nico's face. He's fuming. Strozah sees Nico's bitter expression. It's on the others' faces too. 
 As all of you   are well aware, possession of   these explosives is a federal   offense and under jurisdiction   of the F.B.I. Nico's eyes meet Lieutenant Strozah's. There's respect between the two, but it's plainly under a helluva strain. 
 Sir. With all respect to our brothers in the Bureau -- (biting sarcasm; turns to Neeley)                            * -- That's no answer. It's no answer to why one of the biggest dealers in the city is out on the street now, free as a bird! 
 Keep it in your pants, Nico. These men have a job to do, just like us. Nico stifles his outrage. The other cops exchange glances -- upset and angry. Agent Neeley clears his throat.          * 
                          * Lieutenant, I think these officers are entitled to a fuller explanation. (MORE) 
                            * What I'm about to say doesn't leave this room. Is that clear? Assent from everyone. 
                            * Mr. Salvano has been working for some time in cooperation with certain federal agencies. 
 (O.S.)                     * I'm not at liberty to divulge the nature of Mr. Salvano's involvement -- I just learned of its existence myself a few hours ago. But one thing I can tell you -- 135   BACK TO                                            * 
                            * Mr. Salvano's role is crucial to an extremely sensitive ongoing investigation. Any further surveillance, harassment, or unauthorized operations against this individual are forbidden. I must order you gentlemen -- (looking straight at Nico) -- with all respect for your work and your courage, to stand down. 
 The tapes too. 
 (mocking) That's my Lawrence Welk collection! 
 I want everything you got on this one. Reluctantly, Nico hands over the tapes.   The Lieutenant eyes the bugs and wires. 
 I know you don't give a shit about yourself, Toscani. (a glance to Jax) But you're gonna put Jackson's ass in a sling, too, with these illegal wires. 
 What's the story on your partner, Jackson? Did he learn this style or was he born with a brick up his ass? Jackson checks Halloran out. He's black too and, despite herself, there's a certain rapport. 
 He has ethics. Unlike certain others on this case. 
 His 'ethics' are gonna cost him his badge and his gun. 
 You don't wanna catch him without no gun. Halloran's look asks why not? 
 'Cause what he do with his hands... make bullet holes look pretty. 
 He bad? 
 Bad bad. 
 Is that enough? Can we do something normal now -- like eat lunch? 
 Anything you say, Jax.   How about Salvano's? 
 Let it be, Nico. 
 What... you kept his tape, too? Nico already has it in the PLAYER. We hear FRAGMENTS of the telephone tap from the body shop in Spanish and English. Jackson looks frustrated. Nico listens care- fully to what appears to be the taped PHONE CONVERSATION. 
 Poetry, ain't it? 140   EXT. REAR SALVANO'S RESTAURANT - DAY (POV FROM CAR) 
 (O.S.) And now for some dessert. 
 (O.S.) And that must be Mrs. Sal. So nice to see married couples still in love. 
 This is your mother's church, isn't it? 
 Yeah. But I bet she's never seen these boys in the choir. 150   'S POV 
 (O.S.) Nicola! That can't be you in church without the family! 
 Father Genarro. The priest seizes Nico's hand warmly, smiles at Jackson. 
 This must be your partner in crime. (shakes her hand) I'm Father Genarro. I saw you at the baptismal party. (with a wink to Nico) What a partner. 
 Dolores Jackson (smiling, but impatient) Nico, we gotta go -- 
 No, please -- (more serious now) It's good you stopped by. I have to show you something. Please. The priest begins leading Nico and Jackson. Jackson keeps glancing back out the alley to see Salvano's car slowly driving by. 153   INT. CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY 
 The rats are getting bigger. 
 When did this happen? 
 Two nights ago. I didn't call the police. 
 (in Spanish) It's all right, son. These are friends. 
 (referring to the cops) These are friends. (to Nico) This is Father Tomassino. 
 How do you do? Nico shakes the young priest's hand. There is a moment between them as Nico meets Tomassino's eyes, liking what he sees. The refugees are relieved, however, when Father Genarro, Nico and Jackson take their leave. 155   NICO, JACKSON AND FATHER GENARRO 
 I didn't know this church was a sanctuary, Father. 
 Yes. But, perhaps not such a safe one. 
 How long have they been here? 
 Too long. At least the kids can go to our school. 
 Who did it, Father? 
 Kids, maybe. (significantly) Maybe worse. It's not the first time. 
 We can have a car check by, every hour. 
 No... please.    Police frighten these people. 
 Really, I don't mind coming by. 
 Tell me, Nico... When was your last confession? 
 I'm a married man, Father.   I've got no sins to confess. 
 You're a police officer, you have many sins to confess. 
 Amen. Nico and Jackson start off. 
 (calls after Nico) You come back Sunday. I feel better when I see Nicola in church. (calls louder) You don't show, I'm phoning your mother! DISSOLVE TO: 157   SAME CHURCH - POV FROM WINDOW - EARLY MORNING (SUNDAY) 
 Father Genarro! I have you to thank for getting my son back into church! 
 It's amazing what shame can accomplish. 
 E)   sits. We notice a   young, intellectual-looking man (Alan Singletary)  wearing wire-rim glasses, sitting in the front row. We   will see his face again later. He looks out of place  and glances around, surprised as... 
 F)   
 In nomine patris, filius et spiritu sancti... (etc) 162   SARA AND JULIAN                                                * 
                                  * (examines Julian's diaper) Way to go, Julian -- perfect timing. 
                                  * (clutching baby) We're okay! We're okay! 
 (in Italian) Help the others! Help them, Nico! 
 (forcefully) Help each other move outside.   Be calm. 175   EXT. SIDE OF CHURCH - MORNING From a doorway and a shattered window smoke pours forth. We hear SCREAMS from inside. 176   INT. CHURCH Nico on his feet, plainly the leader in this moment of terror. Worshippers, shattered and bleeding, pour past him toward the door. Nico grabs a stout-looking church- goer. 
 Call 911. Tell 'em to send everything they got! (turns to his wife) Sara, get the baby and Mama                        * outside. Nico starts for the altar where the damage is worst. 
 I want a list of everyone that's been treated here today. Everyone. 
 Right. 
 Then find those sanctuary people, the ones we saw in the church basement -- As Jackson makes notes. 
 Find out where they're from, why anyone would want to harm them. 
 Where are you gonna be? 
 Just stay near a radio.   I'll find you. 
 Sara... go down to the car; I'll                    * be with you in a minute. He hails Neeley.                                              * 
 I need to talk to you. (a glance to Strozah and others) ... Alone. Neeley nods. Nico leads him off the corridor, through a       * fire exit door -- 185   STAIRWELL LANDING The door closes behind them. Nico and the FBI man are alone on the stairway landing. 
                          * (impatient) What the hell is it, Toscani? Without warning, Nico grabs Neeley by both lapels, slams      * him furiously into the wall! 
 You.   That's what the hell it is! 
                          * Get your goddam hands off me! Neeley tries to shake free; Nico won't let him.               * 
 You let Salvano walk. 
                          * Salvano?! Are you crazy? (rips himself free) What does he have to do with this? 
 That was no cherry bomb in there. That was C-fucking-4! (struggles to master his rage) I've used that shit. (MORE) 
 NICO (CONT'D) I know what it smells like, I know what it blows like -- 
                       * Salvano never came near that C-4. It's in federal holding now! Besides, why would he blow up a church? 
 I tailed Salvano. Two days ago. Him and one of his apes were in that church -- and they weren't taking communion. I saw some broad saw who was with his lawyer plant the bomb. Now I want some goddamn answers. 
                       * You tailed him? After I ordered you off? 
 Where is he?    Where's Salvano? 
                       * My orders were release him.    Not babysit him. Neeley brushes Nico's fingermarks off his lapels.         * 
                       * You think you're rough stuff, Toscani -- martial arts hero, chop suey crap. Well I'll tell you something: you're not bullet- proof. You're not even a good cop. (composes himself; reclaims his dignity) You sneak around, playing your street dick games. But all you come up with is conjecture, wild coincidence and bullshit. 
 I want the agent who signed for the explosives. 
                       * I'll do my job. You do yours. 
 Bank on it, pal. 
 You gonna be in real trouble, mister, when El Senor Salvano find out about dis. 
 (polite, casual) 'Cuse me, sir. Can I bum a light? Nico slows, eyeing the   guy dubiously. As he reaches to his jacket -- The side   door of the van flashes open. A .38 is leveled straight   at Nico's head. Instantly three other Latino hoods leap   to the sidewalk. 
 (machete under jacket) Don't even think about it, motherfucker. Machete Man (First Latino) snatches Nico's gun from its shoulder holster. Two hoods shove Nico back into the alley. Nico checks out his assailants quickly. Four of them. Machete, CROWBAR, BALL BAT, GUN. MACHETE MAN (FIRST LATINO) You come to our streets... fuck with our people. Now our people gonna fuck with you. 
 We ain't gonna shoot you, man. We gonna beat you to death. You gonna learn what it means to 'get down.' 
 Fly, baby! 194   NICO 
 (to Nico, in terror) No, hermano. Please -- 
 Who put up the money? 
 What money? 
 You didn't come after me for a piece of ass. (twists the youth's neck) Who paid you? 
 I told ya!    No one! Nico slams him with a fierce shot to the ribs. The hood doubles over, gasping. The flower girls shriek even louder. Nico turns to the girls with a ferocious glare. 
 (shouting) Shut up! The girls instantly go silent in terror. Nico turns back to Machete Man, spins him violently face-down, jacking the punk's right arm straight out behind him. We see that Nico can break his elbow with one blow. 
 Give it to me! Nico raises his fist to strike. 
 Jimmy Constanza! Nico shoves the hood into the ground, tearing the hood's wallet from his trouser pocket. Nico rips the wallet a- part, seizes the kid's identification and holds it up. He grabs the punk by the hair with his free hand. Machete Man is staring up in terror, wondering what this means. 
 If you're lying to me, I'll come and kill you right in your own fucking kitchen. 
 Salvano!   Bautista Salvano! 
 Gracias, muchacho. Nico walks away. 
 D)   INSERT - 3X5 CARD We read: "FBI / Agent Smith / 11:53 / B.S. / Covering for who?" 
 E)   KITCHEN - NIGHT Nico back at the table, listening to the wiretap tape, transcribing it. 
                                   * (softly) I can't sleep. Will you come and hold me? 
 Of course I will. I've been waiting to hear from Jax. She was supposed to get back to me by now. 
 Thank God you couldn't find your shoes. We would of have been sitting in the front row. (beat) Alright, I know the rules -- I don't ask you don't tell. But could've died today and I deserve to know. (beat) Why did we go to church this morning? 
 I'm willing to break   the rules; I'm willing to tell   you whatever I know. But I need    some time. Could you just give   me some time? Nico leans to kiss her, but is cut off by the HARSH RING of a PHONE. Sara starts at the sound. She and Nico glance at each other -- 
 I'll bet that's her. Nico picks up the phone. 
 (into phone) This better be good, Jax. 
 (V.O.) (filtered) It's bad, Nico. 
 (into phone) Long time, Nelson. 
 You should know not to use a name on an open line. (beat) I'm gonna talk for fifteen seconds, then I'm getting off. You're in trouble, Nico. 204   BACK TO NICO'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT 
 (V.O.) (filtered) Serious, serious trouble. Take your wife and family and get them someplace safe now. 205   BACK TO STREET - PHONE BOOTH - LATE NIGHT 
 You hear me? Now. I'm risking my ass by telling you this. Good luck, kid. 206   BACK TO NICO'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT The PHONE CLICKS DEAD. Nico tries to keep a casual ex- pression. Sara sees through it -- she knows he's shaken.     * 
                                 * (grim) That was Fox, wasn't it? 
                                 * (very concerned) Why is the C.I.A. calling you at two in the morning? 
 It's okay, sweetheart -- (crosses to her, puts his arms around her) -- You know what a crazy bastard Fox is. He gets drunk and forgets he's halfway around the world. He calls me. Nico gives her a squeeze and a smile. 
 He just wanted to make sure we got his Christmas card. 
 (to one of cops) It's a little early for breakfast, O'Hara. 
 O'HARA Sorry, Nico. (displays warrant) You're under arrest. 
                           * (reaches for Nico's gun) I'll take this, thank you. 
 No, you won't. I'm gonna give it to you. 
                                    * (to cops; distraught) This is ridiculous -- there's no need for this! 
 It's all right, darling. 
 (to cops) Who do you think you are -- coming in here like this, treating my son like a criminal? 
                                    * Why are you terrifying us? There's an infant here! Nico pulls on a jacket. He looks like he could kill.    He restrains himself for his family's sake. 
 (to cops) Check that coat. 
                                    * Get your hands off him! Rosa grabs Sara --                                              * 
 (to Sara,                                      * allowing himself to be frisked) It's all a mistake, Sara -- It's                      * gonna be all right. The cops steer Nico toward the door. 
                                    * (calls after them) The Police Association's got lawyers for this, you bastards! 
 Illegal wiretaps. Unauthorized surveillance. 
 When were you born, asshole? 
                             * Associating with known felons. Disobeying direct orders -- 
 Where's Jackson? 
                                  * She's outa this. 
 You're the rotten apple in this barrel, Toscani. We don't have to look any farther than you and your 'family.' 
                       * Nico! You damn fool! You wanna go to prison?! Nico stops. He's speechless with rage.    His finger points toward Halloran like a loaded gun. 
                               * (indicates more depositions) Unlawful entry. Illegal search and seizure -- 
 (spits on papers) You'll never build a frame on this chickenshit. 
                          * (angrily) You were ordered to back off on Salvano. But you had too big a hard-on for that, didn't you-- 
 (to Strozah) Fred.   You can't be in on this. Nico faces his lieutenant -- a look that calls on long       * years of comradeship and loyalty. Strozah is torn. He's a good man, over his head in a situation he doesn't com- pletely understand. 
                    * You're officially suspended, Toscani. I want your tin... and your iron. Neeley leans past Nico; drops Nico's gun (with an evidence   * tag on it) onto the table. Nico looks to Strozah, who averts his eyes. Nico flips his badge onto the table. 
 You holding me? 
                          * You can walk for now. But don't walk far. 
 Sara, I'm okay. I love you.                         * 
                                  * Where are you? Why aren't you                       * coming home?                                        * 
 I'll be home later. Lukich will                     * be there. Tell mama not to worry. Jackson and Lukich are waiting by Nico's car.    They see Nico emerge from the phone booth. 
 -- I found the sanctuary people. (MORE) 
 JACKSON (CONT'D) They're refugees from El Salvador, Guatemala, Chile. They won't talk                  * to me, they're terrified of cops. 
 Ready for this? One of the people killed at the church was definitely not a congregation member. 
 Alan Singletary. He's an aide to Senator Harrison. Nico is electrified. 
 That's right. Harrison. Foreign relations committee. The guy who's been crawling all over the Central American drug connections. 
 (impressed) You're gonna make a helluva D.A., Jax. 
 God help us. 
 (savors the com- pliment) I've been at the Tribune all night, wearing out their Xerox machine. Harrison's staff has been compiling some kind of white paper. He's due to release it next week. Nico's mind races. 
 That's how Fox knew. 
 What? 
 Luke. I  want you to go to my house.  Call Branca... my mother has the number. Get my family ready to move out. 
 You got it, buddy. 
 Stay with 'em. We'll be there. 
 What's going on, Nico?   What happened? 
 I got a call last night. An old agency friend. He told me my family was in danger. Jax and Lukich can't put all the pieces together yet.    But if it's drugs-CIA-Senate, it's got to be heavy. 
 You got a weapon? Lukich knows he doesn't. He glances up and down the street, makes sure no one's watching -- then cracks the driver's door of his car. There's a bulge in the map pocket. Nico  pulls out a Sig Saur .45. 
 Try this on. Jackson watches Luke slip Nico a clip.                         * CUT TO: 
 (to nun) Sister... you know me. Tell them there's no need for fear. 
 There is rubble all over the yard, Nicola. 
 (to refugees) I was there... in the church. They tried to kill my family, too. Several of the refugees look like they want to speak, but they are terrified. 
 I know there was a man here, from an American senator's office. Who was he going to speak to? The refugees become increasingly anxious. 
 (to one woman) Was it you, senora? (to a man) Was it you? More silence.    Glances among the people.   Finally: 
 The priest. The others shrink.   The Woman glances to them. 
 Who? (gently) Father Genarro? 
 The other one. 
 No. The young one. From Costa Rica. 
 Father Tomassino. 
 He came alone... two weeks ago. He had papers. Papers to give to the senator. 
 But the bomb... The bomb was planted to destroy the pulpit. 
 Father Tomassino was going to give the Mass that day. (shaken) Father Genarro talked him out of it. 
 (understands) It was Father Tomassino they were trying to kill. 
 Where is Tomassino?   Where is he now? The nun shakes her head.   Nico looks to the refugees. They don't know, either. 
 He run, mister. He go -- 
 If you know where he is, you've got to tell me. I want to help him. I can help him. The refugees lower their eyes. Bonifacia continues her soft weeping. Nico glances to Jackson; her look says "Enough, let's leave these poor people alone." Nico stands, touches Bonifacia one more time on the shoulder -- 218   EXT. CHURCH DAY CARE BUILDING - DAY 
 You're outa this, Jax.    Go home. 
 (displays her notes) You see this list? Well, I'm not done. 
 I'm not a rookie, Toscani. Now, go home. Get your family out of here. Nico agrees.    The pair starts to split. 
 (calls after Jackson) Just paperwork, you understand? 
 Over here, you sons-a-bitches! Nico's rage is superhuman. The men stare in conster- nation. One of the men has a fresh magazine half into his weapon -- 
 (eyes like an animal) Try it. Be my guest. 
 (gestures with gun) Over there! Move it! -- Now!! The men are scared shitless. They put their hands in back of their heads; trot jelly-legged -- 
 Hands on the counter! Three men do it; the fourth is slow. 
 Don't tempt me, ASSHOLE -- The fourth obeys. Nico moves to the pay phone on the wall, covering the men with his .45. He grabs the re-         * ceiver in his free hand; tries to dial. Adrenaline makes his hand shake; the dials spin wrong -- One of the men sees Nico's dilemma. To hit 911, Nico has to take his eye momentarily off his captives. As Nico turns again to the dial -- A free-standing sales display hurtles toward him, crashing into his gun hand. One of the men has lunged into the display; now he dives atop Nico a second later. The whole human pile crashes, thundering into a glass freezer. Somehow Nico gets to his feet. One of the men grabs Nico's gun; Nico swings one of the freezer doors -- Wham! -- smack into the man's face. The GLASS SHATTERS; the man drops like a rock. Now it's three against one -- prime odds for Nico. He wades into his attackers. A coffee stand goes flying. A body sails into a makeup display. One fool is lucky enough to land a blow that bloodies Nico's nose; he pays with a shattered forearm and a head-first heave into an ice cream locker -- 
 (into phone) Yeah? 
 (into phone) Get their stuff into the car now. Do it in the alley, not the driveway. I'll be there in five minutes. CUT TO: 241   TWO MORE POLICE CARS 
                                    * Your job and your family in one day, Nico. You're batting a thousand. 
 (softly) Sara...                                               * 
 You'll be safe with Uncle Branca. It's gotta be this way... I'm sorry. 
 Don't you think I'd rather be with you? He holds her passionately.    Rosa coughs loudly in the doorway. 
                                    * (no longer angry) -- Mama... you got your medicine? Don't forget the baby's sweater -- 
 I know about babies. We glimpse other relatives in the hallway; Nico hands them a pair of suitcases; they hurry off -- 
                                    * (of Nico's bloodied shirt) You sure you're all right? 
 I am if you are. 
                                    * (trying to lighten up) Don't worry -- (touches him) We needed a vacation, anyway. Sara takes her suitcase, hurries out --                        * 
 (crossing yard with Sara)                                      * I'll give you five minutes start.    We have to do it this way. They get their suitcases into the sedan. Mama and the baby are already aboard. Sara gets into the passenger seat.       * Lukich comes around from the front, glancing around like a lookout. 
 Where's Jax? 
 She thinks there may be documents at some guy's apartment. 
 They killed the wrong priest. Lukich doesn't understand. 
 There was a second priest... from Costa Rica... hiding at the church. He was the one they meant to kill. Nico starts to remove a large piece of ducting from the basement heater. 
 And you know where to find him? 
 No. 
 You're gonna need help. Nico grabs the pistols, starts to strap them on. 
 Just stay with my family Nico replaces the piece of foundation, starts back up the steps. 
 What are you gonna do? 
 You don't want to know. 248    EXT. ALLEY BEHIND'S HOUSE 
 My sister's cousin's place. You're safe -- not even I can find this joint. The family enters the back room.    They take in their sanctuary. 
 (rising from rear seat) Don't forget your seat belt. 
                           * Congratulations, Toscani. You just made number four on the most wanted list. 
 Keep walking -- (another nudge) -- I'm bucking for number one. 
 What can I do for you, lads? Neeley presents his ID.                                       * 
                          * There was a quantity of C-4 explosive brought in four days ago -- 
 Hell, that's gone. 
 When? 
 Right away, pardner. They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged. 
 Who?    Who took it? 
 (casual) C.I.A. Nico reacts, nudges Neeley once more.                         * 
                          * (to Clerk) We'd like to see the paperwork. The Clerk has an accordion file right under the counter. He indicates a sign-in book. 
 You gotta sign. 
 Yeah... I remember that guy. Flew in special from Langley. Bomb tech. Real nice fella -- (finds the form, lifts it from file) -- Here it is. Fox. Nelson Fox. 
 (V.O.) (from car radio) -- Here it is, sir. Coming in from Langley now -- 
 (V.O.) (from car radio) -- That agent has been with the Central American desk, uh, since '84 -- 
                              * (into mike) Thank you. That's what I wanted. Nico takes the mike, clicks it back into its cradle.     Neeley    * freezes, unsure what Nico's going to do with him. 
 (motions with gun) Dump your shoes. Ditch your I.D. on the floor. Nico watches the FBI man obey. 
 So you think I'm a lousy cop, huh, Neeley? Maybe I am. But I haven't got                   * my face buried up Washington's ass. 
                              * Nobody buys me, Toscani. 
 Yeah? Then somebody pulled the plug on your brain, pal. You didn't come up with the second priest, did you? Or Harrison's dead aide. (as Neeley fumbles with                          * his laces) Hurry up! (as Neeley obeys)                                * You heard the radio. The Agency's pushing buttons and bodies are dropping like flies. You assholes are missing half the case! 
                       * Listen.     Toscani -- Nico grabs Neeley's shoes, heaves them into the back seat.    * He shoves the agent out the door, swings himself behind the wheel. 
 Watch your step. 
                               * The officer is alleged to be involved in illicit drug trafficking, racketeering and kidnapping -- 
 (V.O.) (on TV's) Police sources also speculate that Toscani may be connected to the suspect in the bombing of St. Elizabeth's parish church -- 
 (V.O.) (on TV's) -- the suspect is likely to be armed and considered to be extremely dangerous -- Nico's police ID photo appears on the news.   He blends back into the crowd. 
 (V.O.) In other news, Senator Ernest Harrison's presidential bid has... Nico moves swiftly through the convention center floor (which is packed for thousands of square feet with sales booths, each manned by technicians and pitchmen, all displaying the latest in high-tech data processing equipment, telecommunications, etc.) 
 So good to see you again, sir! (shakes Nico's hand) Come back near closing... five- thirty... we'll place your order then. Nico nods, fades like a shadow into the throng.     MUSIC DOWN, SEQUENCE ENDS -- 
 
 Listen, Wat... you know I wouldn't call in a favor -- 
 Of course not. Just because you kept a few 'friendly' tribesmen from cutting my heart out and serving it up as Pad Thai? With a wink, Watanabe escorts Nico into a back area off the floor. Carpeted office dividers set off a small area, packed with super sophisticated computer equipment. 
 The last six years I've been risking nothing but money. It's a kick to risk my ass again. 
 The old Spook. CUT AWAY TO: 263   OMITTED & 264 265   INT. JACKSON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Jackson has the Senator's aide's papers spread before her, cataloging them with interest. The PHONE RINGS. Jackson picks it up. 
 (into phone) Jackson. Whoever the voice is (which we can't hear), it makes Jackson forget the documents. 
 (into phone) -- Yes... yes, of course, sister, I know who you are. (listens) -- where... where are you? 
 -- No way to access Covert Ops directly. But Ornstein's at Princeton, he's got a database bigger than Langley -- (works keyboard lovingly) If I can't crack that turkey's code, it's time to hang up my rock and roll shoes -- Nico watches Watanabe work. 
 -- ah, here! Here's a little trap door. Let's see if we can wriggle up into -- (watches the screen with anticipation) Personnel files! Operative dossiers. Will that do? 
 It's a start. Nico sits down beside Watanabe. DISSOLVE TO: 267   FULL ASHTRAY Watanabe stubs out a cigarette. Empty coffee cups all around. Nico paces, reading a hard-copy printout. 
 Fox has had a helluva career. (reads down page) '69 to '76, Cambodia, Laos. Operation Phoenix. Operation Green Mountain. Operaton Northstar. This is all Vang Pao, it's all heroin -- 
 You friend has found his metier. 
 Run personnel retrievals on all these operations. I want the names of every company man who was on them. 
 (O.S.) Altshuler. Cosgrove. I know half these guys -- (thinking) Okay... now run me an update. Where are these fuckers now? QUICK DISSOLVE TO: 
 (finger tracks down screen) Central American desk. Central American desk. Central -- 
 Thirty names from secret drug operations... and two-thirds of 'em are in Central America. (beat) All right. Run these two names: Bautista Salvano and Ramon 'Chi Chi' Testamente. 
 Those street dealers you were talking about? They're not gonna be in here. Nico gives her a look.    Watanabe starts punching keys.     * 270   CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN Official biographies of Salvano and Chi Chi come up. 
 (O.S.) Well, kiss my ass. (reads) Both former Somoza secret police. (whistles, impressed) Recruited by agency, 1975. Trained Fort Benning, counter insurgency... 
 (O.S.) Where's Fox's printout? (finds it, reads) 1976... Fort Benning. He recruited these pricks! DISSOLVE TO: 
 There's nothing left, Nico.     We've wrung these files dry. 
 (muttering to himself; thinking) Fox is here, in Chicago... or was here... (has an idea) ... Listen. Can this thing tap into airlines? Reservations records -- 
 I can get you the ball scores, too. DISSOLVE TO: 
 Five agents   from Central American desk. All trained   assassins. All arrived in Chicago in   the last week -- and none of them has   left. Nico grabs his coat, gulps a last swallow of coffee -- 
 Thanks, Wat. You finally may have done some good for your country. 
 Where are you going? 
 To find a priest. 
 How did ya find him? 
 The nun phoned me. She said two men had been sneaking around the church. She sounded scared -- 
 There's more. I got the papers from that senator's aide's apartment. Everything Harrison's been working on. It's all at my place. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) (from within car) Once you're inside, you'll signal us. 277   INT. CAR - CLOSEUP ON TREMBLING WOMAN (SAME STREET) It is the Middle-aged Woman who left the bomb, seen in Father Genarro's church. A police sketch of her was seen on tele- vision. She is looking up at the third-floor window, getting instructions. She turns around occasionally to see who's talking to her. 
 (O.S.) Don't be scared. Your life depends on this. 278   CLOSE ON DRIVER It is one of Salvano's goons we've seen before.    He is checking his gun. 279   INT. TENEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT 
 You'll be in heaven in a few minutes, padre. But first I'm going to put you through hell. 293   EXT. CHICAGO STREET - NIGHT 
 You came here to talk to the                        * Senator's aide, didn't you?                         * 
 I tried.   But you killed him first.                * 
 Who told you about our plans?                       * 
 This is from confession. I tell no one. 
 You wouldn't lie to me, Father?   It's a sin. 
 (almost with kindness) If you spoke to anyone, tell me now -- (indicates hypo) -- and I won't have to use this. 
 (O.S.)                         * That's an eyeball if I ever saw one.                 * 296B   BACK TO CAR                                                    * 
 You're our backup. If we come out running, then you can shoot. Nico's eyes meet his partner's. It's plain he'll break her leg if he has to, to keep her safe by the car. Jackson accepts this reluctantly. 
 Speak to me, Father -- who did you tell? 
 I know what you are. I know what beasts you are. 
 I want to know who you told. 
 (barely coherent) I told them... you make the ninos... see... castrating their fathers -- raping... mutilating their mothers ... And... (breaks down crying) ... and sometimes... to the ninos... 302   NICO'S POV - HALLWAY 
 (O.S.) -- Tell me the truth, Father -- The priest's eyes roll grotesquely; he convulses, sweat beading on his forehead. He looks like a man in the agonies of some narcotic hell. 
 (close to priest) -- Can we kill him? If you told anyone, about our plans to kill the senator, we cannot do it. 
 Nadie.   Nadie. Nadie.                             * 305   NICO AND LUKICH IN HALLWAY O.S. we hear another ELEVATED TRAIN APPROACHING outside. Nico kicks the apartment door in! He and Lukich burst in, guns clutched two-handed. 306   QUICK CUTS 
 Go!   Go! -- Simultaneously FIRING back through the kicked-in door, EMPTYING his GUN. 
 (in Spanish, from apartment) Get him! Finish him! 
 Now! Nico bolts for the stairwell to the roof, clawing for a new clip as he goes. Salvano and Zagon burst into the hallway, SHOOTING at Nico. 308   INTERCUT - ELEVATED TRAIN THUNDERING along the tracks adjacent to the building. 
 (to Jackson's photo) -- Had to be a hero... another fucking hero. I'm sorry Jax. He reaches for a small calendar, looks at it. 
 -- Senator... -- (of papers, with scorn) -- dumb fuck... think they're gonna let you put 'em outta business -- 327A   INT. EMERGENCY ROOM CORRIDOR - NIGHT 
 (to Lukich) You call Nico's goddamn Uncle and find out if he's heard anything. 
 (wounded himself) You just shutup and take it easy, pal. 
 (on phone) We don't know what happened to him, Branca. Ya, she's gonna be alright. 328B   INT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT Branca, a bodyguard next to him, grimly puts down the phone. He looks devastated. 
 Jesus Christ! 
 The motherfuckas got Jackson. 
 Lukich called. She's not dead. She's gonna make it. She was wearing a vest. Nico can't believe it. In spite of it all, life comes to him. A little smile... 
 That broad didn't trust me. CUT TO: 331   EXT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - POV FROM WINDOW - NIGHT 
 It was picked up with your mail this afternoon. 
 Don't worry, they're booked on an early plane. They'll be out of the country tomorrow. 
                                     * Oh my God, Nico!                                       * Rosa starts forward, her face in agony at the sight of her wounded son. 
 He's fine.   The boy has ribs of steel! 
 (touching Nico's brow) Enough of your humor. Sara clings to Nico's arm, tears in her eyes. Rosa               * crosses herself. Sara begins to weep. The doctor finishes.       * There's a long awkward moment. Then: 
 (to doctor and bodyguards) Leave them. Leave them alone. 
 -- You've got to do it, Nico.    You know you have to. Whatever Sara is proposing, Nico is dead set against it. 
 Listen to her, Nicola. (dead serious) Whatever you think of him, Federico is family. He is our family. Nico makes no response.   Instead, he lifts Julian, nuzzles him tenderly. 
 Ever notice how clean babies smell? Like nothing in the world has touched them yet. 
 If you won't go to him, I will. 
 (in pain) Don't push me like this -- Her eyes meet his -- loving, but desperate. 
 Branca can put us on a plane -- but where can we fly to? Tibet? The moon? There's nowhere they can't find us. 
 You don't know what the hell you're talking about. 
 I'm talking about everything I've learned from you in the past five years. 
 You know I can't go to him. Sara takes both his hands in hers. 
 Do you know why I love you? Do you know what it is about you that I've always loved? (as Nico fights his own emotion) Pride. It's what you have inside. You don't live the way other people live. You trust what you see as right and won't let anyone or anything make you stray from it. 
 (O.S.) But now that pride may kill all of us. (beat) You've got to swallow that pride, Nico. Choke on it if you have to. Lay it aside. 
 (O.S.) Is this the attorney? 
 (O.S.) You can come now, Mr. Carlucci. O.S. we hear a METALLIC sound BEGIN, VERY CLOSE -- PULL BACK TO: 
 I am only an old man. An old man with a cancer. The two are like an old and a young lion, appraising each other -- using all five senses and more. 
 I don't have much time, Uncle.    So I must speak plainly. Larusso listens.   Nico waits for a beat.   Then: 
 (this is very painful for him) -- For as long as I've been old enough to think, I've hated you and hated everything you stood for. Larusso takes this in without a flicker. 
 I was so sure that you and I were on opposite sides of the fence... and that you and your people were destroying this country -- Nico pauses, glances away across the grounds. 
 -- The most painful realization of my life was that the people I worked for and you are not far apart. (meets Larusso's eyes) -- And there's not much difference between what you are and what I was. Larusso studies Nico a long moment.    Then takes Nico's elbow. * * 347   OMITTED                                                         * 348   AND LARUSSO 
 I will be    candid with you. I knew, probably    before you did, that you would be    coming to me. I knew what you would    ask... and I had every intention    of refusing you. 
 But it is a form of wisdom to know when to cease relying only upon yourself. 
 You know, of course, that this Senator Harrison will never live to make his speech tomorrow. (as Nico acknowledges) You know, too, that as long as this man... this torturer -- 
 Kurt Zagon. 
 -- As long as this Zagon lives, nothing I can do will guarantee your family's safety. (beat) 'Ecce non uomine, ecce bestie.' You know Dante? (translates) 'These are not men, these are animals.' 
 Memorize this address. 
 Have you got it in your mind? Nico nods.    Larusso tears the paper into tiny shreds.             * 
 Thank you, Mr. Carlucci. I trust you will give my love to my niece, Rosa. 
 I will do that, Mr. Larusso. (sincerely) I hope you will be well. 
 You got the architect's drawings? Wiring, floor plans -- Nico indicates a briefcase he is carrying. 
 It's all here. Nico turns to his uncle.    Regards him with affection. 
 I could help you from here on. 
 It's not your business. 
 Grazie, tio caro. Branca pats Nico's cheek. 
 Take care of yourself, Nicola. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) Not even you can hit him at this range, Nico. O.S. behind Nico: the unmistakable sound of a .45 SAFETY being CLICKED OFF. Nico freezes, his back to the voice. He raises his hands. 
 That wasn't the plan, Nelson. 366   NELSON FOX covers Nico from behind with a silencer-fitted .45. He glances to the briefcase and building plans, on the floor. 
 Close range, huh? Never work. Place is rigged, scanned every 35 seconds. 
 (back still turned) I was thinking of a mine on the roof. Remote-triggered, when the chopper comes in. 
 Roof's wired too.   Sensors every fifteen feet. Fox's finger rests ready on the trigger. 
 You can turn now.   Slowly.   Slooowly... Nico turns. We see Fox clearly now. His boyish features have weathered since his "spook" days in Vietnam. There is grey in his hair now: he wears an expensive suit and is alone. 
 I figured you'd do your recon from this building. 
 You're looking fit, Nelson. 
 Getting a bit of a tire. 
 (indicates Fox's suit) Your own tailor? 
 Hong Kong. 
 You've gone a long way. Fox motions for Nico to dump his gun; Nico complies, dropping it gently into the briefcase. Nico takes half a step toward Fox. Fox shakes his head in warning. 
 Uh uh.  Uhhh-uh... (motions Nico back) I know what you can do when you get too close to a man. 367    CLOSEUP - NICO                                                  * 
                                    * I don't believe you, Fox.                             * 367A   INT. BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                  * 
 -- What's so hard to believe. I want to help you, you dumb guinea! 
 Fox the fixer. 
 If I wanted to cap you, I'd have saved myself this chit-chat. Make big points for me to bring in your scalp. I'd be White House material. 
 Is that what Zagon is?    One of your basement boys? 
 Zagon's a rancher. 4000 acres in Costa Rica. Beautiful place. 
 Bought with what -- opium from Cambodia? 
 And a ton a week of coke from other places. 
 Which he funnels here through Salvano. With the Company getting its cut. 
 Legal tender. 
 Still dodging appropriations committees, eh, Nelson? 
 That's my job, Nico. They arrive at an elevator. 
 Keep your nose in the corner. When we get out, stay five paces ahead of me. Cross down to the garage. 367B   INT. LOWER CORRIDOR Nico and Fox emerge from the elevator. Nico lowers his hands from behind his head. Fox keeps his gun out of sight as he and Nico step past. 368    ELEVATOR BANK - NIGHT 
 The Senator couldn't be bought, could he? He was gonna blow the lid off, so you cleared Zagon to frost him -- 
 Keep walking. 
 But the priest found out somehow and ran here. You couldn't do the Senator's number 'till you knew if the priest had talked. So Zagon flew in with his little medical bag. Only by then I was in on it -- and you thought I might recognize his handiwork. 
 If your name was Joe Smith I never would have caught it. But how many Nicola Toscani's are there? 
 You got it off the arrest sheet. 
 I tried to warn you, old buddy. I knew you had wiretaps. and I knew you wouldn't let 'em go. 
 Only I was too dumb to crack it. I was so busy trying to figure a code, I didn't even recognize Zagon's voice. It's all crystal clear to Nico now. 
 So we kill our own senators now. 
 Why not?   The Romans did. 
 (to Fox, watching the guests) Are we the Romans? 
 We're an empire too. 
 Would you rather spoon borscht and quote Lenin? (losing patience) I'm trying to save you, asshole! I got a spot for you. Thailand, deep under, no names, no numbers -- 
 Doing what -- processing heroin? 
 You 'consult.' You 'assist.' You send checks to your family. Zagon won't touch you, you'll be on the team -- 
 Fuck you. 
 In five years you're out, with a fat Swiss account and a GS-15 pension. Nico stares at his old friend with contempt. He sees the gun under Fox's coat, but he's too tired and too disgusted to care -- 
 You know, Fox, right now in Israel they're trying some 80-year-old camp guard for war crimes. And all around our country there are guys on Death Row for killing one person, two people. And probably they all deserve it -- He takes a step toward Fox.   Fox's hand tightens on his gun. 
 (emotion rising) -- but you and I know a couple guys personally who are responsible for the murder of at least what... 60,000 non- military personnel. (ticks off the beats) Viet. Lao. Thai. Cambodian. Librarians, teachers, doctors... women, children... and that's just a sliver of it. Fox tries to maintain a hard face.   But his own guilty conscience is working -- 
 (presses closer) We've wiped out entire fucking countries. And not one agent -- 
 (moves gun into Nico's view) Stop right there! 
 (doesn't stop) -- not one C.I.A. agent has ever been tried or convicted, much less accused of any crimes. (closer still) You motherfuckers think you're above the law -- (right in Fox's face) Well, you ain't above mine. Nico holds himself, trembling with intensity. At that moment -- O.S. from the garage entrance ramp: the SQUEAL of APPROACHING TIRES. Nico and Fox turn to see -- *NOTE* 4-17-87. THE FOLLOWING SEQUENCE (SCENES 371 - 401) WILL BE MODIFIED TO CONFORM TO LOCATION. DO NOT BUILD OR PURCHASE WITHOUT CHECKING WITH STUNT COORDINATOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTORS. STORYBOARDS AND NEW PAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE NEXT 
. 371   A BIG CAR                                                      * SCREECHES to a halt in front of them. Five men dismount        * swiftly. Salvano, Bad Dude, and two agent types from the       * tenement... and Zagon!                                         * Zagon and his men are forty feet from Nico and Fox, playing it cool so as not to alarm any innocent bystanders, but the bulk under their jackets is unmistakably guns. 
 Well... well.    What a team we have here. 
 (calls, friendly) We've been looking for you, Nelson.    I see you've found our friend. 
 Thanks for the help, Fox. 
 I didn't bring him, Nico.    I swear it! 
 Have you two been sharing fond memories? Reminiscing about the good old days? 
 Stay still! (to Nico) Don't fucking move!! 
 Bring in our friend, Nelson. Salvano's muzzle covers Fox and Nico -- 
 Be a good boy -- 372   FOX 
 Dive, Nico!! He FIRES -- at Salvano! In the same instant, Salvano pulls his own trigger! Salvano's MACHINE GUN BURST cuts Fox down, a milli-second before Fox's .45 SLUG BLOWS Salvano off his feet! Pandemonium. Fox, dying, slings his .45 to Nico, who snatches it from the ground just as a HAIL of MACHINE GUN FIRE THUNDERS around him. Nico dives headlong behind a concrete column, which is instantly chewed to shreds by GUNFIRE. Zagon FIRES his MAC-10 on full automatic. A second agent hurries forward to outflank Nico. Nico pops from behind the column, DRILLS the agent broadside behind the ear, blowing the whole side of his head off! Guests and valets are shrieking in terror, hitting the deck in clusters, clawing and scrambling over each other for safety. 
 (to first agent, advancing) Move! Nico springs from cover, FIRING, trying to bolt down the garage ramp, toward the lower levels. His path puts the first agent directly in Zagon's line of fire. Zagon doesn't hesitate; he OPENS UP on Nico, cutting down his own man -- Salvano has gotten to his feet, wounded, but still handling his gun. He  joins Zagon, rushing forward -- 
 -- 
 No!   I want him! I want him alive! 402   EXT. MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT                                       * 
 (O.S.) -- this is bullshit, Zagon. We got work to do. 
 (O.S.) All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. 
 We've got an hour before the honorable senator. (hands towel to pistol agent) You've got to learn to take time, smell the roses. 
 How are you gonna do him, Zagon? In a motorcade? Or passing through a hotel kitchen? The Noose agent jerks his cable tight, making Nico gag and choke. Zagon motions to slacken off. He stops at a small table before Nico -- unrolls a well-worn felt pouch. Zagon watches Nico's reaction as the tools of the inter- rogator's trade come into view -- drug vials, syringes, scalpels, surgical tools. 
 I've used these little beauties many times to extract information -- (lifts a needle to the light) -- This'll be the first time I've ever used them... just for fun. 
 (to agents) Take his arms. Pistol agent and Bad Dude move in, one on each side,         * seizing Nico's forearms. Shotgun agent holds his weapon tight to Nico's head. 
 Hold him up! Pistol agent and Bad Dude lift Nico. Zagon slams him again. Again. Nico's cheekbone is broken; blood drains from his nose. Zagon aims a two-handed blow; backhands Nico, crushing the other side of his face! Zagon backs off, chest heaving. Pistol agent and Bad Dude plop Nico back in the chair, gagging, choked by the noose. Nico looks like the Viet prisoner -- the one we saw in the opening sequence. Like the prisoner, Nico takes his beating -- still conscious, still meeting Zagon's eyes with defiance. 
 This is where you came in, Toscani. Only, now it's where you're gonna check out. He takes off his glove, grabs the syringe. Pistol agent and Bad Dude clamp Nico's right arm down tight. Zagon injects Nico. 
 That's it. Fight it, cherry. Fight it, so it speeds faster on its way -- Nico struggles more violently. 
 Fight it. Till the vessels burst in your brain. Till the arteries rupture in your heart -- 
 That's my boy. That's what I was waiting for -- Zagon produces his famous knife. He motions Pistol agent and Bad Dude to release Nico's arms. Noose agent slackens his grip on the choke cable. Zagon moves in closer, gloating, cooing -- 
 A fool learns from his own mistakes. But a wise man learns from the mistakes of others -- (moves closer, blade in hand) You should have killed me when you had the chance, Toscani -- 
 Can you feel the chemicals, cherry? You can't fight 'em much longer -- 
 Long enough to finish you. Sweating, half-spitting, Zagon slashes at Nico like an animal -- Nico traps the knife, and enters, smashes Zagon in the face with one lightning blow. We see Zagon's nose and face completely cave in. Nico comes under Zagon's elbow, the arm that still holds the knife clamping it in a vise-like grip and bending it backwards, slowly, against the joint -- which now starts to rip in half. Zagon is screaming and cursing, writhing in agony -- The drugs have hit Nico full force now. He's weakening, his eyes are starting to roll. Zagon tries one last surge of strength to save himself; it almost seems he'll wriggle free when: the elbow JOINT SNAPS in half with a sicken- ing sound. 
 (shouting for anyone) Is there a hotel doctor?    Call 911! 
 T.V. (O.S.) (in front of house) -- Senator Harrison has today issued a statement calling for the appointment of a special prosecutor -- CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Earlier this week, the Harrison Commission delivered its report on the growing C.I.A. scandal to Congress... 
 (V.O.) (on TV) -- officially-sanctioned deceit, murder and corruption, will continue until these men are brought to justice. 
 Detective Toscani. I wanted to personally thank you. You are making it possible for a sliver of truth to finally come out. 
 And this is Clayton Alspaugh of the fifth circuit court. 
 Your Honor. The Judge nods to his stenographer, who swiftly sets up her equipment, takes a seat. Rosa makes a face at Branca, who rises, clearing a seat for the Judge. Sara moves              * in tight beside Nico. 
 Are you sure you're feeling well enough? Nico glances to Sara, to the supporting faces around              * him. Lukich. Neeley. Strozah. Jackson. The others.                * 
 
