 
 CAPTION: ENGLAND 1766 
 Elizabeth Murray, bring yourself back here this very moment! 
 What in God's name have you done!! 
 She...she is black. 
 But she IS black! 
 A detail you chose NOT to share. 
 (fury) Captain Sir John Lindsay, do you find me a fool? She is a MULATTO! 
 You keep in mind my position..? My reputation...? CAPTAIN SIR JOHN LINDSAY Sir... 
 Then have some sense of propriety boy...and understand what you are asking. LINDSAY lowers his voice, shielding DIDO. 
 How do we raise her...? 
 That is simply impossible. 
 What has she been named? SIR JOHN LINDSAY She is Belle...after her mother. Dido Elizabeth Belle...Lindsay. 
 She takes your name? 
 We cannot have another Elizabeth in the household. LADY MANSFIELD regards the child, then looks to her husband, gravely. He turns his back - aggrieved. 
 We...we will call her Dido. (off Lindsay's nod) Good Lord, she is thin. Mary, find her something to eat. LORD MANSFIELD storms from the room. follows. LINDSAY kneels, choked with emotion. 
 Are you...a nee-gro? makes her way across...taking her aunt's hand as all three walk. DIDO is silent. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Are you what they call `a negro?' I heard them talking. 
 Questions, questions, Elizabeth! Tis a most irritating trait you and your father share. 
 Papaa M? 
 No your blood papaa. Sir David Murray. You should not insist on always speaking your mind, you know. You will end up an old maid with only your own company for entertainment! 
 Like you, Aunt Mary? That is what the maids say? 
 You little.... 
 Captain Sir John Lindsay. (off her reaction) Do you recognise him? She nods. A beat as conflict fills him. 7. 
 D'you see here...? This..this is your grandfather, Sir Alexander Lindsay of Evelick. 
 Elizabeth's papa. 
 You are a sharp little one. He is The Seventh Viscount Stormont... (beat. Almost to himself) ...to inherit everything that we are standing on when I am gone. 
 Born on English soil? 8. 
 Indeed. He discovered her mother aboard a captured Spanish slave ship. He was charged with conveying it back to these shores, he tells me. 
 Evidently he had some...`feeling' for the woman. 
 (dry) And there I was believing it was sheer lack of `self control'. (scathing) He has been at sea, six years. All of this child's life! 
 Well, he clearly saw to their wellbeing. The child is not altogether uncivilized. (she breathes deeply) So...now we have two nieces in our guardianship. 
 (reticent) Elizabeth was much in need of a companion. 
 And that is what we shall say when questions are asked of us? 
 We shall say that in accordance with her birthright, she is entitled to live beneath this roof. (with irony) Such...is the nature of `order'. 
 And where in this `order' should her colour be placed? Below or above her Murray bloodline? (off his silence) May she dine with us? 
 She may...(pause)...NOT...in company. We cannot escape society's confines on etiquette 
 Marriage? 9. 
 Impossible. Any match her..'other origins' may attract would surely disgrace her and the family rank. 
 And when we are no longer here? No husband - who will take care of her? He rubs his eyebrows, perturbed, turns back to the lawns. 
: 1781 
 Bette! No...no surprises Bette! 
 (shrieking) Girls! Will you refrain from shrieking like the...bless-ed French! 
 ...for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth. So saith Christ the Lord. Amen. 
 Amen. 
 Hymn no. 76. ON the MANSFIELDS as the congregation begins to sing. 
 I have reason to speak with you alone, Dido. DIDO is quietly alarmed. 
 Have I wronged you, Papaa? 
 You have done no such thing. 
 I have not past experience in the ways of breaking grave news to you. He hands her a letter and she reads. A beat, as the news resonates through her, silently. Her pained gaze slowly rises to meet'S. 
 (quiet, shock) I thought I should one day have the opportunity to make his better acquaintance. 
 Yes.   I know. 
 Two thousand pounds a year? sits at the edge of the bed in day clothes. DIDO nods, her back to us as she stares out through the window. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Then you are an heiress! He has left you your fortune! 
 He must have loved you, Dido. 
 He did not know me. 
 My father's new wife wishes him to leave me not a thing, and he obliges her. 
 Then it is her cruelty you should lament, Bette, not his stupidity. 
 I think he might have loved me more if Mamaa had not died. 12. 
 (pained) I...I think love must be a very complicated thing. 
 Dido - with such a dowry you may marry into any good family you wish. OFF DIDO as she stares at the ceiling, daunted. 
 We shall receive visitors for dinner. The two girls exchange a glance and whisper. 
 Visitors? Who ever bothers to visit us here? 
 Or leave... except the dead! 
 Once again, Dido? 
 Beds...Aunt Mary. We should prepare some extra beds... in case our visitors are to stay... She trails off - LADY MARY raises an eyebrow. 
 May we wear the new silks? 
 I will do your hair, Bette. Oh say we may wear them, Aunt Mary. 
 You will not be dining with us, Dido. 
 (hurt) Yes of course. But I may join after dinner, may I not? 
 Yes. Such are the rules, and you know them well. 
 She is a most disagreeable... hideous, old maid - I hate her! 
 You do not! She is only managing the dictates of the household 
 Papaa...how...how may I be too high in rank to dine with the servants and too low to dine with my family? 
 Dinner with guests is a formal proceeding, Dido - we simply cannot impose the disregard of those formalities upon visitors. 
 But...Papaa, am I not..'wealthy', now...an heiress? Surely that changes matters... 
 (softly) My dear...I wish it were so simple. Finances may go some way - but Society has a habit of disregarding even one of their own, when opportunity provides. 
 (stung) Of course...(trailing off) 
 BUT after dinner...when formality is of less consequence...well your presence can raise no defendable objections. (off her sadness) (MORE) 14. 
 As you wish, sir. 
 Dido!... ELIZABETH emerges from the house, breathless. 
 There you are. I have been searching for you! 
 (to Dido) What a wretched countenance! 
 She deplores my authority. What am I in this household, if not the `observer of rules'?! 
 I would rather dine with Dido! 
 What a great pity 
 Indeed. 
 Our young gentlemen guests shall miss you, Elizabeth. Both girls' eyes widen - DIDO's with disappointment. 
 ELIZABETH/DIDO Young gentlemen? 
 Very good connections. 15. 
 And most agreeable by all accounts! ELIZABETH'S mouth falls open. LADY MARY leans toward her. 
 Close your mouth and understand: There shall be no discussions tonight in any languages other than English! No whisperings in gentlemen's ears - not in Latin, Italian...and certainly not French! 
 What excellent French! Though I have not an idea of what you said. 
 I said...`Your hands have the suggestion of a sensitive man'. She wrinkles her nose, minxish. Across the table... 
 I must say, the entire country barely breathes awaiting your judgement on this appeal. Terrified you shall destroy England, no doubt. I know Lord A is. He does wonder though, what can be taking you...so long? 
 (mild condescension) The law, Lady Ashford. It is to be interpreted - not merely administered. (CONT'D) Your husband of all people knows this. 
 My brother is not a man of rash instinct. 
 For that we are all grateful. 16. 
 What a lot of fuss over dead cargo. 
 It is a fuss over the bread and butter of a great many in these isles. A great many, Lady Ashford. 
 Wimbridge! 
 Miss Lindsay? 
 There are poachers wandering...! The sound of the echoing doorbell, jolting. Her eyes dart to the door. WIMBRIDGE hesitates, then answers. 
 Good evening to you. I am John Davinier, I..I believe I may have disturbed a lady of this house... He sets eyes on DIDO, peering from the great staircase. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Ah...she is there. (calling out to her) Please forgive me...though you barely gave me a chance... DIDO turns her back, horrified. How dare he address her without formal introduction?! 17. 
 Sir, I do not believe we have been introduced! JOHN takes hold of himself, half mortified, half irritated. 
 Indeed. I...I... (to Wimbridge, feeling foolish) Please inform the lady of my apologies for startling her. I took advantage of the back fields, by way of a short-cut to deliver this to Lord Mansfield... from my father. 
 Sir? He hands an envelope. 
 Reverend Davinier. 
 Of course, sir. I will see that he gets it immediately... 
 You shall not interrupt him at dinner, Wimbridge! 
 Immediately - after dinner, sir. JOHN resists rolling his eyes - ghastly female! 
 Yes, of course...thank you. He backs away. DIDO still shows him nothing but her back. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) (to Wimbridge, awkward) Good night. 
 Good night, sir. He moves off, and is gone as DIDO finally turns, stares at the closed door, flushed. 18. 
 Dido...my dear. 
 (whispers to her sons) Good Lord - the negro! She really is... 
 (quietly disturbed) ...a lady. 
 Capital! 
 I hadn't expected her to look so...black. 
 Mamaa, did you not listen to the rumours when you were spreading them? DIDO curtseys respectfully to LORD MANSFIELD. 
 May I present to you the second of my nieces - Miss Dido Lindsay. 
 A pleasure, Miss Lindsay. 
 (sotto - re. James) He is the eldest - to inherit the entire Ashford fortune. He is also to inherit from his uncle - a healthy man, who shows little sign of departure. 
 How do you know? 19. 
 Lady Ashford herself. She seems rather despondent at her brother's robust constitution. 
 He has much to recommend him. And a second fortune in life should please any wife. ELIZABETH clocks the gaze between and JAMES. 
 Dido! You are not to be a coquette with him! You already have your fortune! 
 Are you suggesting I now condescend to a gentleman without means, Bette?! What should good society think of us! OLIVER moves to his brother, follows his gaze to. 
 She is intriguing, is she not? 
 I find her repulsive. 
 I suppose she is...if you find a most rare and exotic flower so. She is quite something to behold. 
 (flustered, to DIDO) Good Lord! They are appraising me! composes herself. JAMES' eyes remain on DIDO, swallowing hard at her undeniable beauty. 
 One does not make a wife of the rare and exotic, Oliver. One samples it on the cotton fields of the Indies... 
 So far, when it is right at my door? 20. 
 ...Then finds a pure ENGLISH rose to decorate one's home. OLIVER smiles. OFF both men - trained on DIDO. 
 Is she `OUT'?? 
 (embarrassed) Not quite. 
 (awkward) Any day now. 
 You will refrain from any intercourse with the negress. (beat) Lord and Lady Mansfield may find it fascinating to have a Lady Mulatto running around their household, but I will not have one running around mine! 
 She is an heiress. A seamless change of heart for LADY ASHFORD. 
 Although exceptions can be made. 
 It is said that her father left her a rather vast fortune. 
 I mean to say, if that is your inclination. 
 She is rather soft on the eye - I have thought no further Mamaa. 21. 
 From where did you receive your information? 
 Her sister-cousin has a rather fast tongue. 
 OLIVER (CONT'D) And what of you Miss Lindsay? Are we to hear you play tonight? 
 Well... (deferring to her father) Papaa...? 
 Oh do not be selfish with your good fortune, m'lord! A beat...then put on the spot, LORD MANSFIELD caves, throwing up his hands, helplessly. 
 This will be most interesting! DIDO moves to the pianoforte settles her fingers on the keys. A beat, then Handel's Suite No.9 fills the room. 
 She has never played in company! LADY MANSFIELD is silent - stiff with anxiety. 
 (conceding) She is...most accomplished. 
 (with deep satisfaction) Hers was a most diligent governess. 
 The liberty of asking her to play! And when he can have no better intentions towards her. She stops in her tracks briefly, suddenly unsure... (CONT'D) Can he?? 
 She must not delude herself. Such decisions are not hers to make. 
 Then spell it out to her! Before she renders herself...sport to some `gent' of cruel promises!!! 
 She has no reason. Hers is an inheritance that renders her free of the usual inducements to marry. 
 Well, that, at least, is true, (burdened, grave) Indeed, it is Elizabeth who needs to secure her bread and butter. 
 A portrait? Are you sure? 
 Yes...Aunt Mary has confirmed it. 
 Good Lord. How...truly wonderful. 
 But...but... 
 (becoming exasperated) But what, Dido? 
 Papaa...should he not have wished to SEE me before deciding? 
 DIDO (CONT'D) (to Lord M) I am sorry...I did not know you... 
 (dry) Mr Davinier, I believe you have already had the pleasure. 
 (ironic) In...some way - yes. (to DIDO) Miss Lindsay. 
 Decide what? She is hesitant now, awkward in JOHN'S presence. 
 If he should...should WANT to paint me! 
 The man is to be paid a fortune. What is there to decide? 
 But... 
 Dido, you are to simply sit still. Not a challenging task! 
 (anxious) Next...next to Elizabeth...? 
 As you always are - right beside one another. DIDO's chest heaves with distress. 
 Should...should not any lady be flattered to be such a subject? 
 How should any male know the ways of a lady when he has not even mastered the ways of a gentleman? 
 Quite! Though one should be forgiven for thinking he was in the presence of a lady - when she is, in fact, still a juvenile! 
 Papaa, may we do this in private! 
 Not now, no! You may return the books to the library. 
 Papaa...! 25. 
 Upon her husband's death a widow may receive.... 
 ...her marriage portion and inheritance at once. She has forty days to leave her husband's home... 
 Hummm... (contemplation) Yours are grand ambitions. 
 To... to provide certainty where there might otherwise be none. 
 Example. 
 The Zong ship and those drowned. 
 It is one of the few trades acceptable to a gentleman. 
 I am no member of the nobility - I have little, but...where my father relies on the bible, I...I wish to rely on the law courts. 
 You aspire to the judiciary? 
 One day...yes...m'lord. I wish to make the laws not only administer them - for that...that is how I may truly change this world. I mean to say, make it... a better place. 26. 
 Noble if not pompous! A country lawyer, you may make - perhaps! If you pay every regard to what you are taught - but you have neither the rank nor finances for any more! 
 (tentative) If I may, m'lord - neither did you! 
 I beg your pardon? 
 Well...as a fourth son, you had rank but not the income to pay for your qualification to the Inns. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Without the sponsorship of Lord Foley and William Hamilton...the English courts may not have benefited from your brilliance - and the title, Lord Chief Justice could not be yours today...M'lord. 
 You believe you are worthy of such considerations? Such are your capabilities? 
 That I do not know, M'lord. I have not yet been afforded those considerations...but I know a country life does not suit me. 
 The Reverend has requested I take his son into my tutorage, Dido. (Beat) What do you think? 
 Thank you for your gracious support. 
 I neither spoke for or against you - since neither is my place. 
 Silence speaks volumes. Elizabeth approaches, calls out, as she curtseys. 
 Papaa's new student. 
 Indeed! 
 Mr Davinier, my cousin, Elizabeth. 
 A pleasure. 
 (to John) Papaa has never taken a pupil, you realise? 
 Someone to keep you company while you take Papaa's dictation, Dido. (to John) Truth is, there have been more of your sex at Kenwood this week, than I've previously seen in all my entire life! DIDO flushes. 
 Hopefully we have not disappointed! 
 On the contrary! She raises a minxish eyebrow and moves off. Awkward silence. 28. 
 Mr Davinier, what...what is the importance of the Zong... why is the case before Papaa's court, the supreme court...? He searches her, taken aback.   Why is she asking him? 
 Well... (he struggles, tentative) It is a cargo ship. 
 I...I am aware of that. 
 A human-cargo ship. DIDO hesitates, tentative. 
 Oh. You said those who were drowned. 
 It lost most of its slaves before arriving at its destination. (hesitant) Drowned - by the crew on the captain's order. 
 But...why? 
 Miss, your supper is served now in the ladies' parlour. 
 Thank you. JOHN hesitates, struck with confusion at the maid's words. becomes awkward. LADY MANSFIELD emerges, disappearing into the dining room. 
 Mr Davinier, will you be joining us for dinner? JOHN's eyes dart to DIDO - sees her unease. It pierces him. 29. 
 I..er...I thank you, Madam, but I am promised to the company of my aunt this evening. She has recently moved to the cottage at Belsize. 
 Of course - as you wish. 
 Permit me to ask, why you do not dine with your family - ever? 
 That is not correct. 
 Forgive me...but twice now I have seen...I have seen you separated from the gathering. DIDO's cheeks begin to burn. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) I am confounded. DIDO snaps, her shame over-spilling... 
 And well you might be - when the son of clergy is permitted to the table before a lady of the house. 
 Is that a reminder of my place, Miss Lindsay? She holds back frustrated tears, pained. 
 No. It's a statement of mine! 
 (he pats his animal) There is much speculation on your decision. Anticipation seems to be turning to panic, m'lord. 
 I cannot disagree. 
 One hundred and thirty two drowned on route from Africa to the West Indies. Your ruling could bring the slave trade to its knees - entirely destroy an economic foundation of these lands. (off Mansfield) Is that pressure not maddening, m'lord? LORD MANSFIELD reigns in his horse. He quotes in Latin. 
 Justitia fiat, ruat coelum, Mr Davinier - Let justice be done, though the heavens may fall. 
 The insurance claim states, the slaves were thrown overboard for the safety of the ship - that there wasn't sufficient water for the cargo and crew to survive the rest of the voyage. 
 It does. 
 Then, if I am correct, the case hangs on... 
 ...IT HANGS on `Absolute necessity'. If the cargo was spoiled... 
 Cargo? LORD MANSFIELD adjusts his language. 31. 
 If the killing of the..'negros' was truly `necessary' in order to save the ship - as the captain contends. 
 But...is that where it hinges? 
 The ship's journey was thwarted by impossible weather conditions - what should have been weeks became months! What once appeared enough water, may not have been! 
 I am sensible of this, m'lord... 
 Then do you know what a hundred thirsty slaves are capable of? I can tell you no man happily disposes of his cargo, even in the face of rebellion! (Off John's silence) So now tell me - were you to dock at port with barely a piece of merchandise left to trade - what would you do?   Swallow financial ruin - or claim your due from the insurers. John is conflicted - to speak up, or not? 
 With due respect... I should question, whether 'human' life should have been insurable as cargo - at all. The air turns cold. 
 A gentleman rather like him once paid me much interest. 
 Mr Davinier? 
 (matter of fact.) Really, Mary? DIDO lays each Dahlia carefully. 
 Do not look at me like that! It was my Mamaa who intervened. I thought he had a very great sense of duty. Overly kind at times but... LADY MANSFIELD watches as though she knows the rest. 
 (gently) But...what, Aunt Mary? 
 HE is engaged, you know? DIDO follows her gaze to JOHN, as he climbs from the horse, hands it to a STABLEMAN. 
 Engaged! 
 Is he? 
 Mr Beresford's daughter. 
 The carriage-maker! He might have set his sights a little higher! AS JOHN marches toward the back entrance of the house. He nods to the ladies. A self-conscious beat between he and DIDO, her back to him - as he disappears inside. 
 To the window, Miss Lindsay DIDO favours the window a little more...Soft sunlight pours onto her skin. 
 Wait... She is upon him in the CORRIDOR! They stand silent, awkward. 
 I...I was curious... 
 Quite a task - to sit for so many                       * hours...(beat)... Congratulations! I learned of your..your match..yesterday.                            * 
 Thank you. He falters slightly, swallows hard - not all is well. 34. 
 I appear the only one to have just learned of this affair? 
 Perhaps yours is a life less concerned with such matters. 
 Why do you judge me so? He studies her. She is tentative. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) It is a fact that I have contemplated on the matter for many hours, and I...I do not think the slaves could have been drowned in the way you say. 
 Are you at utter disconnect from everything?! He searches her, making her feel very small and ashamed. As he moves off, she stares after him, distressed. 
 Mr Davinier...please. Tell me. Tell me what you know! 
 DIDO (CONT'D) (earnest) Do not render me your amusement. He traces her vulnerability. It roots him. 
 I can only tell you what I believe. 
 (trying to understand) And what...what is that? 
 The slaves were intentionally drowned, that is not in question. Chained! Thrown into the waters - chained together as one. (MORE) 35. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) They were diseased - worth more as dead insured merchandise, than as alive spoiled goods. (stark) The captain hoped it would `pay' to kill them. ON DIDO as colour drains from her face.   Nausea rises... 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Miss Lindsay....? 
 But the insurers are appealing. 
 Yes. They are challenging the decision of the lower court - refusing to pay for murdered slaves. 
 Thank you. 
 (whispers) Papaa. 36. 
 There you are! DIDO is frozen, says nothing. stares from the doorway - why does DIDO look so strange? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) We are requested. You - drawing room. I, relegated to the ladies' Palour! 
 We are to attend London for the Season. ELIZABETH'S eyes are wide. 
 We are to finally `come out'?? 
 (clarifying) Elizabeth is to come out. 
 Dido is not. 
 But why? 
 You understand the ways of this world for a female, Dido. Elizabeth has no income. When all this is gone to her father, I have nothing to leave her. 
 You are to meet as many gentlemen as possible, before we make the match. 
 Oh! 
 And me? 
 Dido, you are well taken care of - Of this, you are well aware. 
 A gentleman of good breeding is unlikely to form any serious attachment to Dido, and a man without, will lower her position in society. 
 But she is not merely my cousin, Mamaa, she is my sister. I cannot attend London without her! 
 You may attend London together to keep Elizabeth company and save the pain of a few weeks separation. 38. 
 Lord knows I will need you both to keep each other out of trouble. 
 Papaa... 
 You are not to be denied, Dido. 
 Papaa, please! 
 These are the keys to the house. They have hung at the waist of your aunt for the last thirty years. 
 (horrified) No! I am not Lady Mary. I am not an unwanted maid! 
 Lady Mary is too old to continue in charge of the house. He places the keys in her hand and closes her fingers. 
 Are...are you punishing me? 
 Punishing you!! Dido, you are most cherished. Most loved. Why ...why would you say such a thing? 
 Because... 39. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) Because ... 
 Because what? 
 I am sorry, Dido. So very sorry. 
 You told her they were wantonly drowned. 
 Because they were! Those slaves were diseased - some were already dying - yes. But it was essential they die ON the journey or they would not come under insurance consideration! Neither too, if they had expired of their diseases - That is why they were killed - this we all know! 
 You have entered my home and utterly taken advantage of the confidential matters afforded you. 
 These `matters' have been for public consumption for months. Miss Lindsay is no child...no.. fool! 40. 
 (incandescent) Her precious care is in my hands and I will decide when she is ready for such realities. Not the son of a vicar! A vicar who, incidently purchased his living from me! 
 I shall gather my belongings. 
 Do so! turns his back on JOHN to glare at the lawns JOHN calmly collects his books, jacket, hat. He hesitates. 
 Your Lordship, a question? LORD MANSFIELD swings round ready to bite.. 
 WHAT, Mr Davinier! 
 As the mere son of a vicar - I wonder whether the value you extend to your very precious mulatto niece - well I wonder if it amounts to MORE...or LESS than the thirty pounds insurance the traders are asking for each life they murdered? ON LORD MANSFIELD'S cold stare.   He swallows hard. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Good day, M'lord. 
 Mr Davinier. JOHN stops, turns to. 
 John Davinier is leaving very early today! DIDO moves to the window. Her POV: JOHN on horseback as he disappears over the brow., LADIES MANSFIELD and MARY watch as LORD MANSFIELD storms past the doorway.- all is not well, they can tell. LORD MANSFIELD's gaze locks with DIDO through the doorway - he falters, moves on. OFF DIDO's realisation - JOHN is not coming back . 
 ELIZABETH (OOV) Do you think I may see Mr James in town? 
 (O.C.) Perhaps. 
 I could fall in love with such a man, Dido. 
 Love? 
 (whispers) Bette, you could feel no such sentiment for you should either end poor or... broken hearted. 
 (O.C) Aren't you quietly relieved? 
 Relieved? 
 That you shan't be at the caprice of some silly Sir and his fortune! (off Dido's silence) The rest of us haven't the choice! Not a chance of inheritance if we have brothers and forbidden from any activity that allows us to support ourselves. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (c'est la vie) We are but their property. 
 Light the fires for dinner, will you, Thomas. ON MABEL as she catches DIDO'S stare, forcing DIDO to avert her gaze quickly, turning her back to distance herself. 
 You are so beautiful, Bette. I hope your match is the most wonderful of all gentlemen. 43. 
 Some bed socks for you, Miss Murray, Miss Lindsay. It's not as warm as we hoped tonight 
, Thank you Mabel...How kind. MABEL pauses as DIDO struggles with her hair. 
 Can I help you with that, Miss Lindsay? 
 Mabel, I am fine - thank you! 
 You must start from the ends, miss. DIDO stares at her - a long beat. 
 MABEL (CONT'D) My Mam taught me, see? DIDO stares at her a moment, some kind of pain resonates in her eyes as her face softens and she begins to relax. 
 Promise me you will change that vulgar teal paint, if you ever become lady of this home. It is positively wanting, Elizabeth. 44. 
 Lady Mansfield, LADY MARY and their nieces, Madam. 
 Ladies. 
 Lady Ashford. 
 (reassuring) Here, of course. Very little could have prevented him, knowing that Miss Murray would visit today. 
 Lord Mansfield's infamous Mulatto. No wonder our `Lord Chief Justice knows not whether he is coming or going! Not your usual game, Oliver. 
 Grenadine syrup... 
 And port!! 
 Which has gone to my head already! 
 Oh Dido look - Mr James has made me a boat and it has capsized. JAMES stretches a branch into the lake to rescue the boat. 
 What a dreadful shame. 
 (to DIDO, earnest) For you. She smiles, can't help being charmed. 
 Thank you. He places it in the water, stands and examines. From afar, LADY MANSFIELD watches. 
 Miss Lindsay, would you do me the honour of taking some air with me, some time? DIDO is dumbstruck - what to say? JAMES is halted. 
 Don't you care what people will say 46. 
 What is that to mean Mr James? What should anyone say?! JAMES hesitates, then... 
 That he should compromise a lady's reputation by stepping out with her - scarcely having made her acquaintance! 
 I think you are a great deal too anxious, brother. We should merely take a turn around Vauxhall. DIDO observes JAMES - His protestation is bitter. She traces'S features, warmly. 
 I should be delighted, Mr Oliver! Most delighted. 
 Are you really to defy Papaa? 
 (re. Dido with Oliver) I am not at ease with this. Lord Mansfield would be most aggrieved. 
 Oh it can do no harm. This is simply two families, enjoying a day together. LADY MANSFIELD takes an unhappy breath, burdened. 47. 
 Well I did not think I would ever find a lady who was not to be conquered or ignored...Until you. 
 Ah now how do I know this is not just another tactic in your battle to conquer? He stops, takes her hand and places it on in his chest. 
 See how my heart beats. 
 OLIVER (CONT'D) I am utterly taken with you, Miss Lindsay. 
 Despite...such pronounced protestations from your brother? 
 He cannot overlook your mother's origins, as I do. Foolish. Why should anyone even pay her regard when your better half has equipped you so well with loveliness and privilege. 
 What a lovely sound. 
 You are unrelentingly cultured. Come, let's find it! He takes her waist spinning her round with him into another pathway, disappearing from the others, giggling as they go. 48. 
 People will think she has no family! 
. People will think they are courting! LADY MANSFIELD and LADY MARY exchange a look. LADY MARY is somehow softened - her eyes appeal to LADY MANSFIELD... 
 Let her enjoy his society. LADY MANSFIELD is effected - reads MARY'S emotion. 61.2: An open pavilion with classical concert. ON OLIVER and DIDO watching. 
 I might only have dreamed of these moments, at one time. 
 Really? You are much of the conqueror Mr Oliver. He chuckles, brings his hand up to brush her cheek, gently. She smiles just as her eyes fall on the back of a gentleman's head, shoulders - his movement somehow familiar. The sight roots her, uncertain of what she sees. And then he turns to address another, and his profile becomes clear. 
 Miss Lindsay. 
 (flushed) Mr Davinier. How...how nice to see you. 
 And you, Miss Lindsay. He looks to OLIVER. 
 Forgive me - Mr Ashford, may I present to you...Mr Davinier. (She smiles awkward) (MORE) 49. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) He is the son of our Vicar at Hampstead, and was..well, almost father's pupil... 
 A clergyman! (an `off' smile) Good day, to you...sir. 
 Sir. (beat) My regards to your family, Miss Lindsay. Unexpected hope fills her. 
 Elizabeth and Mamaa are here... in fact. 
 (dismayed) Miss Lindsay, you are alone!! 
 I did not have the chance to see you before you left...Mr Davinier ...to convey my apologies. 
 Apologies...? 
 Your pupilage. Father would never have ended it...you...you never would have had to leave Kenwood were it not... 50. 
 He would make mine a living hell, were he to know of us speaking. DIDO tugs him into a quiet lane, away from the concert and promenading. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Forgive me. She nods, equally bashful. They regard each other. 
 What are you doing here in London Mr Davinier? 
 I am under a third cousin - a solicitor, here. Nothing more than petty disputes between unsavoury landlords and debauched tenants, but I cannot discount it. 
 Not what you wished for. 
 I haven't given up on The Inns. Nothing worth having in life comes easily. 
 (flushed) Where are my manners? I trust the future Mrs Davinier is well. 
 Very well...thank you. 51. 
 I have tried to keep up - with the Zong. These past weeks. 
 (agitated) Tis pitiful! Such inability to simply know what value to put on another's life. 
 (bitterly) What price, a worthless Negro. 
 (frustrated) You utterly misunderstand me. I am saying that no man may have the value of that of cargo!!! Human beings cannot be priced, since we are priceless!! Freemen and slaves alike! Her eyes begin to sting at the `integrity' in his words. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) (enthused) I am with others here. We are all students in law - applying pressure on the insurance companies to refuse from here on to insure slaves on any ship. A simple clause. 
 But that would require a change of law. I know nothing but... 
 A change in law - something the insurance companies can lobby for IF they can be persuaded to band together. (softly,) We may only be students, but...change is most always precipitated by the young. (shrugs - poignant) Someone has to have the courage. How can we expect to be civilised if we live in a barbaric world. His words wind her as shakes his head, frustrated. She takes him in - he is so very handsome! 52. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) It is the utter injustice...the industrial slaughter of so many. DIDO stares at him earnestly. 
 No. It is more than that. It's the shame of a law that would uphold a financial transaction upon that atrocity. She is scathing and accepting all at once, affecting him. 
 That is indeed the truth. 
 I have never heard anyone speak like you. 
 Nor I, you, Miss Lindsay. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) You must return. They will be anxious. Should I follow to see you safely. 
 No we cannot risk it. He nods - studies her.... 
 Good bye, Miss Lindsay. (he pauses) I suspect, we will never see each other again. The thought strikes DIDO, uneasily. 
 Good bye, Mr Davinier. 
 Miss Lindsay?!! (tentative) We...commune at the Coaching Inn - Kentish Town...most evenings.. 53. 
 Quite. 
 I did not dare return to Lady Mansfield without you. 
 (relieved) I..I am terribly sorry. I thought I saw the others, I went after them....and found myself lost. OLIVER studies her - she is so nervous...what is she hiding? A moment - then his eyes become forgiving. 
 It's almost dark! 
 Look, here are James and Miss Murray. ELIZABETH and JAMES approach, sit on the bench opposite. 
 I do hope you know how well I think of you. 
 As I do you. 
 Then I hope, Sir, you plan to honour your attentions...as not to would leave me looking... quite foolish. 
 And I should not call myself a gentleman! Satisfaction washes over her. As DIDO and OLIVER appear, LADY     * MANSFIELD lets our a cry of relief, goes to say something -       * LADY ASHFORD lays a finger across LADY MANSFIELD's lips.          * 54. 
 Say nothing! This has all been for the good of the future, I assure you! 
 She is. They stare at the couple ahead. 
 She will need a gentleman who can temper her. Quite a task. 
 (to Lady Ashford) Do I sense that an address is finally to be made? LADY ASHFORD goes carefully... 
 She is an exquisite girl... (with relish) And...since there is no male heir and...it will therefore fall upon Elizabeth and her husband to eventually inherit all of Kenwood and its lands... 
 Lady Ashford, may I... 
 ...I realise there will be no end of worthy addresses to consider. ON LADY MANSFIELD as she too closes her eyes at the strain. 
 Penniless? 
 (disgusted) Without an inch of property, or shilling to her name! 
 (sardonic) Do you hear that, James? A lady's good breeding alone will not do! 
 (to Oliver) Your brother needs a wife who will bring him further land! LOTS!... if he is ever to exert more political influence than your father has. 
 But what of her own father? 
 The Seventh Viscount Stormont is a scoundrel. Ensconced in Vienna with the girl's vicious step-mamaa and his new offspring - who I am told is to inherit EVERYTHING. 
 She has the colouring of a farmer. 
 James, we do not talk about that, any longer. 56. 
 Is this really the very best you aspire to, Oliver? To introduce some woman of obscure birth into the family lineage? 
 James - you are my first boy - blessed by law to inherit your father's wealth. Be sympathetic to your brother. Like the unfortunate Miss Murray - a good family name and empty pockets will only get him so far!! OLIVER closes his eyes, privately humiliated. 
 Good heavens, Lord Mansfield has arrived a day early! LADY MARY moves quickly to look down on the street. Her POV: below, LORD MANSFIELD'S carriage outside. 
 (calls out) Mabel! Freshen the flowers! 
 (facetious) Is Mabel a slave? LADY MANSFIELD almost chokes on her porridge. 
 I beg your pardon? 57. 
 Is-Mabel-a-slave! LORD MANSFIELD swallows hard, his jaw tightens. 
 She is free and under our protection. 
 (twice as facetious) O! Like me! 
 Hardly, Dido! 
 And paid a very respectable wage. 
 How is the fraud appeal Papaa? 
 Fraud? 
 The marine insurance. It is a Fraud case, is it not? 
 That would depend on to whom you may speak. 
 To cull your `cargo'? To do it solely to claim insurance because it was too diseased to achieve a good price at market? If not fraud, then what? 
 Do you speak on my behalf, Dido? 
 Oh will you please stop! She slams down her napkin. (CONT'D) This is a vulgar subject to be discussing at breakfast 
 I learned yesterday that Mr Davinier is in town. DIDO stiffens. ELIZABETH stares across at her, privately. 
 Makes sense. Dido is beginning to sound very much like him. 
 Excuse me. She gets up and is gone. 
 I had the pleasure of laying eyes on your adopted girl. 
 (facetious) Which one? 
 You have raised a lovely young lady...And, though I understand she is kept under interesting rules, She raises questions. 
 Spit it out. 
 Her introduction to society comes at a key time in the insurance appeal. Parliament is nervous that your `family situation' will colour your judgement. 
 I will neither be pressured from the inside - or the outside. LORD ASHFORD comes to a stop. 
 (calm) You are the highest judge in the land. (MORE) 59. 
 How? RULES are in place to dictate how we live - were that not the case, I would not have had the mandate to give shelter to my nephew's child. 
 (softly) I believe you. He raises an eyebrow. Then... 
 Oh? 
 (tentative) I have a wish to seal the bond between the Ashford and Mansfield names. It would, however, require some relaxing of your most stringent rules, I must add! LORD MANSFIELD comes to a halt again. 60. 
 Is that so? 
 I have had reason to speak with Lord Ashford. 
 And I to Lady Ashford. (beat) Are we in agreement? 
 We are. (long beat) You once asked me, who would look after her when we are gone. Money is no substitute for a man's protection. I cannot deny her a match so suitable. 
 Whatever did happen in the end, Aunt Mary? With your gentleman friend. LADY MARY looks up surprised DIDO studies her curious. 
 He never married. Cousin Marjorie wrote me last year, that he had died after a long illness. 
 Oh Aunt Mary... 
 Pardon me. Mr Ashford is here for you, miss. DIDO and ELIZABETH look back at her, then at each other. 61. 
 DIDO/ELIZABETH Which Mr Ashford? 
 O excuse me! Mr Oliver, for you, Miss Lindsay. LADY MARY takes it all in, with a special interest. 
 You need worry about nothing. Your Papaa has been dealt with. She disappears, leaving DIDO lost. A nervous silence. 
 Hello, Miss Lindsay. 
 Mr Oliver. 
 I do hope my reason for being here will bring you as much happiness as it brings me. DIDO swallows hard. In the CORRIDORS - LADIES MANSFIELD and MARY listen through a crack in the doorway. 
 OLIVER (CONT'D) I think...well, I know...that we make a rather good match. (he pauses) Father has purchased me a commission in the navy - as colonel - Is that not the rank your blood father first purchased? 
 (anxious) Yes. Indeed it is. 
 So I feel my career is now set. All that remains... A long beat. gathers his courage... 62. 
 OLIVER (CONT'D) I can not offer you a title, Miss Lindsay..for the next `Lady Ashford'...well that title must fall to my brother's wife... (huge,nervous breath) What I am trying to say is, I can without doubt, offer you ALL that is due to `Mrs Oliver Ashford' and...and I trust that this would be acceptable to you. (he hesitates) Since...it would very much be my privilege...my honour, if you would agree to become my wife. He takes something from his top pocket. DIDO looks down, finds a large black sapphire glistening in his fingers... In the CORRIDORS. 
 I cannot see...! 
 Shooosh! On the stairs, ELIZABETH slows, as she approaches. 
 What are you doing? 
 Quiet, Elizabeth! In the DRAWING ROOM - DIDO is still staring at the ring. 
 Good Lord, Mr Oliver! Your ...your wife? Mrs Ashford?! 
 DIDO (CONT'D) I... (swallows hard.) ...I cannot... (she pauses) I cannot...think of anything ...more wonderful! He stares at her.    She looks back at him, stunned. 
 (overjoyed) She has agreed! O... 63. 
 Agreed? LADY MANSFIELD throws open the doors, elated. 
 O...! 
 Mamaa, we are engaged! LADY MANSFIELD eyes fill. She touches'S face softly.           * 
 DIDO (CONT'D) It is a good thing, is it not, Mamaa? 
 (whispers, poignant)                                * You are my heart - from the                             * moment I saw you. I only want you                       * to be happy.                                            * 
 Dido...was there any message for me? 
 No, Bette (beat) But..I am sure it                      * won't be long. 
 What does it feel like Dido? To be engaged? 
 (unsure) Perfect, Bette - pefect. CUT TO: 
 Papaa. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) Thank you. 
 We are to make many calls today, Elizabeth. Acquainting oneself with the most eligible gentleman is not light business. 
 Should we not wait a day or two - for Mr James? 
 Elizabeth - some advice.     Wait for no man, dear! 
 Will you join us, Dido? (no response) Dido? She is absorbed in the headline. Absolutely rooted. 
 I..I am terribly light headed this morning, Mamaa. I should like to take rest if it would not displease you. 
 Oh dear! Unwell? And just as we are to announce your news! 65. 
 Harry! Harry! 
 DIDO (CONT'D) Harry, I need your help. I need you to take me somewhere. 
 Alone, Miss? 
 I shall not be alone, I shall be with you. (off Harry, reticent) Please - Harry. If you don't take me, I shall be forced to go alone. 
 Mr Davinier? 
 Harry? 
 Miss Lindsay! As he climbs inside.    He is stunned, flustered. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) I... 
 Mr Davinier. It makes him breathless just to see her there. A beat passes. 
 I didn't expect...! Are you to come inside?...Are...? 
 No...It would be dangerous. 
 (feeling foolish) Yes. Indeed. 
 Oh Mr Davinier...I am so proud of you. I am so proud of what you are doing and...achieving. 
 No. We've achieved little.... She lifts his face to hers, earnestly. 
 At least thirty per cent of insurers are with you! It is a start. It is a real start. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) I have something to show you. She collects the two scrolls beside her, each ribbon tied. She hands one to JOHN, smoothing the other on her lap. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) It is said all of the ship's papers have been `lost'... but...here...I found these in Papaa's library. 
 What are they? 
 Papaa's notes on the ship's log. It seems the First Mate has come forward with it - one Mr Stubbs. I could not find the log itself, but look at Papaa's markings - See the map positions - From December 29th, Captain Collingwood and his men directed the ship past no less than eight ports where, you see.... (she points to map) ...there was every opportunity to stop and replenish the ship's water supplies. JOHN studies the log and map together. 
 Good Lord! 
 And they did not! They either ignored the possibilities, or they were never in need. 
 This...This is remarkable. He looks up from the papers.   DIDO is still tentative. 
 Is it? Perhaps if you made these facts known, Mr Davinier 
 But this places you in an impossible position with Lord Mansfield. 68. 
 What is the alternative? His face searches hers... 
 Walk with me, Miss Lindsay. The back of the Inn has the canals, (he laughs) Nobody but blind drunks. 
 Where is everybody, Mabel? The carriages are gone. 
 Lady Mansfield and Miss Murray are out calling, your lordship. 
 And Dido also? 
 Erm...I believe so. 
 Well is she, or isn't she? MABEL wavers, attempts to sound convincing. 
 Yes. She is, M'lord. LORD MANSFIELD watches as she stiffly moves from the room. He goes to ask something more...then thinks better of it. 
 Papaa would rather I see no ill, as though by ignoring it, it some how escapes me - perhaps by position but not...not by blood 69. 
 (conciliatory) The fault was never with you. He stops a beat as he catches her gaze on a painted metal sign swinging from the back of an inn. It shows a gent, hat in hand, his black servant bowing behind him. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) (unsure) Miss Lindsay? 
 Just as in life, we are no better in paintings... 
 You were afraid. 
 Afraid? 
 To be painted - to be painted beside Miss Murray (off her discomfort ) And I ridiculed you. (swallows hard) I feel ashamed. 
 Do not feel ashamed. (she observes him) Elizabeth said something when we arrived in London. She said: (recounting) we are but their property. 
 Whose? 
 Gentlemen's. We women are but the property of gentlemen. That is the way it is, in law and in life, is it not? JOHN nods, uneasily.    thinks aloud. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) And it came into my head that I have been blessed with freedom twice over? As a negro and as a woman? 70. 
 I suppose you have, yes! 
 Or have I? ((her mind ticks over) Must not a lady marry, even if she is financially secure? For who is she, without a husband of consequence? (she ponders) It seems silly - like a free negro who begs for a master! 
 Unless she marries her equal. Her true equal - A man who respects her. 
 I remember my Papaa's eyes. They were kind, gentle... a little like yours... 
 Mine? 
 (embarrassed) I mean...in colour. Grey. (long beat) He showed me much love, though I knew him only a few hours. 
 That is terribly moving. (off her reaction) What of your mother? 
 She is a ghost in my life - present in my reflection, in each scowl I receive, yet I know very little of her than the colour she has given me. 
 (moved) Then at the least, you know she was beautiful. They come to a halt. DIDO's eyes begin to sting. 
 I had never felt it. 71. 
 Had? They observe each other a moment. Will they kiss? Dido pulls back, nervous of the intimacy. 
 I am to marry, shortly - Mr Ashford. 
 Oh! She begins to walk again - composing herself. 
 He is amiable and of good family. 
 Is it...what you want? She stops.    The question strikes her. 
 The alternative is to replace Lady Mary in her responsibilities at Kenwood. 
 But she is a spinster. 
 Papaa did not trust I could achieve a match that might raise my rank - or even equal it. 
 You...are above reducing yourself for the sake of rank. She stares at him, frozen - his words bury somewhere deep. She studies him, harder. He moves towards her, letting his breath settle on her face. They are both deadly nervous. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) I pray he would marry you without a penny to your name - for that is a man who will truly treasure you! DIDO searches him. He takes her hand, brings it to his lips, kissing it gently sending a shiver through her. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) I will take you back to your coach. 72. 
 Is anyone home, Mabel? 
 Lord Mansfield. (Dido's heart plummets) I said you were out with Lady Mansfield and Miss Murray 
 Urghhh! What if I shall never find someone so...so incomparably suitable...and wealthy?! 
 What if he is suitable but you do not feel...`yourself' with him? 
 Oh Dido! He understood me. (beat) And whenever...whenever... he looked at me...I somehow felt better in this world... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I am convinced his affections were growing...and I feel certain of my own love. 
 Oh Bette, stop it! It is NOT love!! 
 Dido! You stop it, won't you? You know no more of love than I myself, do you?! (deliberately pointed) Do you Dido? 73. 
 No. Beat. ELIZABETH swallows hard, disappointed. 
 Then what better right do you have to name what I am feeling than me? OFF DIDO affected. 
 How charming. Is that not charming, Elizabeth? And tell me, are you an only son? 
 1 I have six brothers, madam. 
 SIX! Goodness!...all..? 
 1 ...all older, madam, yes. 
 Is that not a most fascinating display? He turns to look at the bush of flowers behind him. When he turns back, and ELIZABETH are gone. 
 Oh how dreadfully wonderful Lady M. Your girl is a picture...an utter picture! With her...'intended'? 
 Indeed, Baroness Vernon. 74. 
 (re. ELIZABETH) AND I see the other does not give up...so terribly endearing! 
 (anxious) Mamaa, Mr Vaughan approaches. 
 Now I have checked and he has no London home, but I have good information he achieves an income no less than four thousand a year! 
 Miss Murray. Lady Mansfield. 
 (earnest) Oh most certainly. 
 Miss Murray, I wonder, if you might permit me to call upon you at home, sometime? 75. 
 Oh! She looks to her mother, stunned, his gaze follows... 
 With her Ladyship's permission? 
 I shall make arrangements. ON DIDO, as OLIVER chats to others. She moves past as... 
 A pity Lady Mansfield and I could not do business on James and Miss Murray. 
 A greater pity you rejected her. 
 Let us not dwell on the unfortunate. Oliver and Miss Lindsay are a blissful match. Tell me, when exactly does she receive her inheritance? As DIDO observes her reflection in waters - easy laughter floats by - a group of gentleman josh. 
. Miss Lindsay. Not Husband hunting, are we? (off Dido's disdain) Good Lord, I forgot - you have ensnared my brother. Now is he to share his dining room with you, as well as his bed?? His words bury deep and painful. 
 Oh, Mr James, your manners are as poor as your brother's finances. 
 And you are foolish enough to marry him. I on the other have no better use for your impoverished cousin!...(beat)...Though she does make for rather amusing sport! 76. 
 That is painful, sir. 
 Have you never been manhandled? 
 It is not in my repertoire to keep company with beasts. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) How dare you? HOW DARE YOU! 
 With ease. 
 JAMES (CONT'D) You will destroy us. You will destroy the entire order of our family. Nearby, DIDO emerges from the trees... 
 Oliver has been searching for you! 
 Are you unwell, my dear? DIDO's affected eyes come up to meet her mother's. She goes to answer...interrupted as...ELIZABETH gasps overwhelmed... 
 Oh!..Mr James! 77. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Lady Ashford, you had not mentioned Mr James was to attend! 
 Surprisingly. 
 Ladies. (off Dido's reaction) Miss Murray. 
 I had never imagined myself to be married. But my aunt is determined. It is true that if one were to count, I had not even been acquainted with Miss Beresford on three occasions. 
 Is she not terribly disappointed that you will not return to Hampstead? 
 (ironic) my Aunt? 
 Were you a curious child? 
 Completely. Elizabeth, always asked the questions for me... then took blame for the impropriety when in fact she was protecting me! Dear, dear Bette. 
 ...I find myself unable to sleep. Papaa is to finally speak in a few days and...well... 
 It is quite extraordinary ...but I fear...I fear despite persuasive argument...your Papaa has not been moved. (despondent) I am not certain he is ready to go against the traders - they are some of the most powerful in these Isles - theirs are the finances that hold up England, after all. The enemies of any man who stood against the trade would be vicious. 
 And yet if he does...stand up...IF he speaks the words and condemns the trade...The Lord Chief Justice of England...it may be impossible for the slave laws of England and its colonies to remain absolute. Is that correct? 79. 
 That...that is a fact. A tear spills. As'S hand come up to wipe it away... 
 I have heard nothing from him, since Vauxhall, Dido. I was certain an announcement was to be made any day...that he meant it this time! 
 Then he is not a man of his word. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) I will help you find the kindest most wonderful of husbands. (off Bette's sadness) And I shall ask Papaa to use a portion of my inheritance for your dowry. 
 You would do that? For me? 
 Bette, anything for you! 80. 
 Dido... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I have been of the mind these last few days...that it is my little means that has delayed James in making his approach. 
 I think you may be right. 
 Then I cannot thank you enough. 
 Bette...? 
 I will ask Papaa to write immediately to Lady Ashford. 
 No! 
 No? DIDO gets up too, now. 
 James Ashford is not kind. He is not a man to give your life or dowry to. 
 Then your gift comes with conditions. 
 No! 
 What then? 
 I am trying...trying to make you see. He is not... appropriate! 81. 
 Appropriate? The brother of the man you are to marry is not `appropriate' for me? 
 He does not desire you, Bette! At least, even if he does, you would regret such a mistake. (off Bette's silence) He...he laid his hands on me, Bette - in the most un-gentlemanly fashion. 
 Why should you say such a thing? 
 He hurt me. 
 You are a liar! 
 Why...why would I lie to you? 
 I don't know - but do you not see? Have you never been able to see? He would never touch you...! 
 Bette... 
 You are beneath him! 
 I am beneath him?? 
 Yes. You...you are... 
 What! Tell me! What am I, Bette? She dares ELIZABETH to cross their line of sisterhood. 
 ...You...you are....(courage leaves her)...You are illegitimate!! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Have you never wondered why you are not permitted to eat with our guests? 
 My mother and father never married - you are correct. But my father acknowledged me as his child. (beat) It is yours who refuses to legitimise your position, Bette - that is why you are poor! And that is why it is not me who is beneath Mr James, Bette. It is not me! ELIZABETH stings - she fights tears, before she disappears. 
 (worried whisper) Miss Lindsay. Are you out again? 
 (terrified) Papaa...? LORD MANSFIELD is incandescent. He shakes with rage. 84. 
 This man's ambitions include you. You will endure shame and risk your position for a man without name, who will sully yours and drag your reputation to the gutter! 
 (bitter and humiliated) I take great offence in your summation of my character without ever even taking a moment to know me. Where is your right? 
 ...I have EVERY right...! 
 ...No! That you will never have! Not until you cease from judging the entire world as those above and those below and begin to see people as PEOPLE! Human beings, who think and feel no more or less than you do! 
 I know there is a lady in Belsize who is waiting to be your wife. 
 No! I have an ambitious aunt in Belsize, who like you, assumes reputation and fortune are all that life depends on, and despises love as though it were the devil's own creation! LORD MANSFIELD's eyes narrow dangerously - rage explodes. 
 Love? You claim love....?? 
 NO! STOP! Papaa, you must stop! 
 Yes...yes I love her! I love her with every breath I breathe. Silence! DIDO and LORD MANSFIELD are stunned. A painful beat. 85. 
 Go John.   You do not deserve this. JOHN'S breath is heavy, his heart pounding. He catches his breath, almost chokes on it as he rises, moving with uncertainty from the carriage, and is gone. stares at 
. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) Captain Sir John Lindsay would never have behaved like this. 
 Captain Sir John Lindsay would never behave like this because he was never HERE!...You are destroying your possibilities with the only gentleman who will consider you. (searching her, hard) Is that what you want? 
 Arrogant...parasite! HE is filling her with worthless ideals. He wants to `make the world a better place'!... is puffed with fury as he paces the room. He knocks the table again, jolting LADY MANSFIELD. (CONT'D) He is laughing at us! His childish campaign simply adds to my already rampant ridicule in the gossip pamphlets and now...! As though he were some kind of...saint, immune from reproach! 
 You said something identical, once. 
 I never broke the rules. 
 Did you not? You simply became powerful enough to make new ones. (off his silence) I always felt you already loved me when I gave you my hand. Not that you said it but... something in the way you looked at me. 
 As though she were created of you and I...(poignant)...And that is why I simply do not want to see her diminished. 
 The niece of the Marquess of Winchester. Mr James Ashford is to marry the niece of the Marquess of Winchester. ELIZABETH looks up, bewildered. 
 (sardonic) That shall render your future mother-in-law ecstatic, Dido. ELIZABETH slams her book down, gets up and storms off. DIDO thinks about it a beat, uncertain then goes after her. 
 Don't you dare say a word. 
 I won't. 
 Why! Why do they ALWAYS do that!! 
 Who, Bette? 
 Men! They leave and never come back! 
 I saw you with him, that day.   At the pleasure garden. 
 You said nothing. 88. 
 I wanted you to tell me. To trust me. 
 I should have. 
 You know, if I had your choice, I would choose...the man I loved (off Dido, sad) I simply hope he is worth it. 
 I am not in the habit of requiring explanation more than TWICE! But on this occasion, you will have to forgive me. 
 (burdened) Lady Ashford there is little point in repetition... 
 Then let me be clear that I have understood. Your charge - your mulatto charge... 
 (fiercely protective) That is enough! DIDO sits staring at the floor. OLIVER cuts in, aggrieved... 
 (to Lady Mansfield) Is it not true enough, your ladyship?!! 
 ...whose unfortunate circumstances of birth, we chose to forgive - has decided she no longer wishes the match with my son - a gentleman and an officer. OLIVER stares across at DIDO. He speaks quietly... 
 Why, Miss Lindsay? 
 (poignant and pained) Do you feel I have any lesser need to ensure my child's wellbeing and future than you?...(beat)...Does she still have a tongue? 
 I have a tongue, Madam. Though yours explains well enough why I may not marry your son...beat)... You view my circumstances as unfortunate, though I cannot claim even a portion of the misfortune of those to whom I most closely resemble. ON LADY MANSFIELD stung by the thought. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) My greatest misfortune would be to marry into a family who will carry me as their shame - as I have been required to carry my own mother. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) Her apparent crime, to be born negro, and mine - to be the evidence. (beat) Since I wish to deny her no more than I wish to deny myself, you will pardon me for wanting a husband who feels `forgiveness' of my bloodline is both unnecessary and without grace. 
 Why did I, slave, beyond my lot aspire.. The line repeats itself in her head. 
 Will it? 
 Why should that surprise you? 
 Why should it not? LORD MANSFIELD says nothing, observes her, curious. 
 What are you reading? 
 Poetry. A gentleman named Thomas Day. He speaks of a slave who agreed to marry a free woman. A voice to people...people like my mother - who do not have one. 
 You find yourself in such writing? 
 I don't know that I find myself anywhere. I have no place that I may claim. 
 What is it that you want, Dido? What precisely are you searching for? I enabled every rule of heritage so that you could know exactly where you belong. Yet little appears enough for you! 
 Papaa, you enabled every rule, but you had to overlook just as many to raise me within good society. And what if there were not a rule Papaa? What if that rule that allowed you to take me did not exist? Would you have returned me to the slums? The air is poignant with the question. 92. 
 DIDO (CONT'D) You are courageous. When it comes to the matters you believe in, society is inconsequential. You break EVERY rule when it matters enough. Papaa, I am the evidence. (OFF the painting) This painting...is the evidence. 
 Look at them - For and against at each other's throats! How on earth did the damn quakers find their way into here!..(beat)..You are a brave man, negotiating these quarters on the eve of your judgement. 
 You did not become Lord Mayor through being a coward. 
 Finally you are to speak, then. If England is destroyed we shall blame you! He slaps LORD MANSFIELD's back, playfully, but is deadly serious. LORD MANSFIELD is distracted...through the bustle in the room, the SOUND of YOUNG MEN debating at a table, insurance underwriters before them. 
 JOHN (OOV) ...But religion cannot be the only guardian of our morality. 
 1 Of course not - there is self- responsibility? 
 And failing that does the law not have a duty? ON LORD MANSFIELD - his own group continue in conversation, but all his attention is on. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Do the bench and parliament not have a duty to uphold and create the laws, to set the precedents that progress our morality, not retard it! If not to protect us from others, then to protect us from ourselves! Laws that allow us to diminish the humanity of anybody, are not laws - they are frameworks for crime. ON LORD MANSFIELD - something going on behind the eyes. The rest of the room fades - making JOHN clear and crisp. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) A constitution can never be finite - surely as humanity evolves so too must its laws. And frankly I really do not care if you as an individual are without character or conscience - But a land whose laws contain neither - whose laws sanction not control the barbarous among its citizens - that is a country whose hope is lost. 
 Why does it matter to you so? JOHN stares at him bewildered, at a loss for words. 
 M'lord..! It..it is a misuse of the clause. It is not for human lives. It is for goods.. Chattel... 94. 
 (factual) It is for property! 
 I HAVE SEEN YOUR NOTES!! If they wanted water they could have had it! 
 Dido. 
 If you find for the traders, you will be formalizing in law the concept of insuring `human' cargo. 
 That is correct!...(to his driver)...Drive! The carriage begins to move off.   JOHN walks alongside it. 
 Then know that when you are gone, your legacy will be to have left Miss Lindsay in a world that says she may be worth more dead, than alive. 
 She is not a slave. 
 By the very grace of God! 
 This is not about Miss Lindsay. JOHN is confused, flustered. 
 Of course it is! It's about all of us. It's about everything... everything that is important! 95. 
 Mr Davinier, the world is a devastating place. You must learn to protect your emotions if you are to prevent matters of both law..and love from devastating you. JOHN is frozen, averts his gaze. regards him, affected, bangs on the carriage again and is gone. 
 Smooth your dress, young lady! 
 Mr Vaughan, how kind of you to come. 
 I have thought of nothing else but showing you Aunt Mary's chrysanthemums, Mr Vaughan. 
 What a pleasure, Miss Murray. 
 You too Mamaa. 
 NO! Never again! 
 Fine! Then step down and allow me to take the reigns. 
 Had I known you were to be such trouble, I'd `ave driven off before Captain Sir John Lindsay bought you to my carriage! 
 Silence in the court! DIDO's hand slides to JOHN'S. 
 Whether the `jettison clause' of Marine Insurance Law may be brought to bear in this appeal. This is the question. That is, first: whether the slaves were drowned as an anticipatory act. An act to avoid the disease caused by their (MORE) 97. 
 No! 
 The ship's owners chose a tight `packing fashion' to transport the slaves...A popular fashion of transportation that is known for causing death and disease. 
 All rise! 99. 
 You may not blame Mr Davinier ...My attendance today is absolutely at my own volition ...for matters which concern me. 
 I am fully aware, Dido. 
 M'Lord...I am inspired by your decision today. We will not go backwards from here. 
 (burdened) History will judge if your optimism is warranted...(beat)... You are a man of conviction. 
 I am trying to be. 
 Then your efforts are not in vain. 
 And Mr Davinier is not a gentleman? Her voice rings out, furious. LORD MANSFIELD stops... 
 He is...indeed...Dido. (he speaks carefully) And that is why he ought to have a job befitting one. 
 (a whisper - defiant) My affections are with him, Papaa. I wish for nothing... nothing, if not to be his wife. 
 If you would Mr Davinier, I would like you to attend my chambers in the morning. There are matters I would like you to assist me with. 
 Your Lordship? 
 And if you think it a good idea...I wish to facilitate your entry to the Inns of Court. 
 (tentative) That is to serve my qualification to The Bar? The question LORD MANSFIELD once put to, is now answered. 
 Indeed...(humbled)...Capabilities such as yours are clearly deserving of such considerations. JOHN breathes heavily, also humbled, as his tears surface. 
 I..I think it a very good idea, sir. 
 JOHN (CONT'D) Can it be true? 101. 
 Of course. He sees what I see. His words were as clear as... 
 No! That your feelings for me are so? That you would be my wife..? (off her reaction, ) Because, I cannot conceive of a life without you...and if...if such were all that were before me, Miss Lindsay, then my heart would never beat the same again. 
 
