. CAMERA very slowly PULLS   BACK. The sparkling surface turns out to be a lot of   carats. WE SEE the stone, then the ring, then suddenly,   in b.g., something HUGE SWEEPS by. REVEAL a mechanical    claw above the ring, hanging from a crane. The ring    sits in a sea of tiny dolls, joke eyeballs, and other   carnival junk. The claw descends on the ring again and again, sometimes catching it for a moment then tragically dropping it -- accompanied by OOHS and AAHS (O.S.) of hope and disap- pointment. INTERCUT with the HANDS of a young black man working the controls. The EYES of a young black woman watching him work. Another guy's HANDS digging in his pocket for change. QUARTERS going into the slot. 
 MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) This'll never work, Tommy. 
 (O.S.) Be positive, Armando. Course it will. The claw inadvertently snags a rabbit's foot. 
 (O.S.) Look.   See what a lucky fuck I am? 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) He don't mean the ring, hon, he means the whole plan. 
 (O.S.) So do I. The claw catches the   ring and closes on it. QUICK CUTS of their FACES as the   crane rises. A very pretty lady. A beefy Latino with a   two-day beard. Their apprehension. Tommy's confidence.    Then his exceptional smile. He gets the ring. 2   INT. PENNY ARCADE - DAY                                     2 
 Okay -- one down, one to go. (returning to the claw) You got quarters, Loretta? END TITLES. 
 That's a diet ginger ale, an extra- spicy virgin mary no salt, a club soda -- good choice -- a lime rickey, and a bourbon and a planter's punch. Five people, five drinks... it's Kismet! Tommy turns away, looking toward the entrance to the room. 5   INT. LOBBY - DAY - CLOSE SHOT - THE RING                    5 glittering on Loretta's finger. LORETTA, stunning in designer clothing and accessories, enters. Her looks attract looks. 6   INT. FUNCTION ROOM - DAY                                    6 Tommy, maintaining his vantage point, repeats another order, this time in a heavy CARRIBEAN ACCENT: 
 That's a vodka tonic, a Pellegrino, lime and no ice, a gin Gibson straight up with ex-tra onions -- I am also fond of de onions -- and a Chardonnary spritzer...also with extra onions -- no, no, do not worry, that is just a little joke. There will be no onions whatsoever in your spritzer! He LAUGHS HUGELY, rather amused with himself.   The guests aren't. 
 You don't need to write it down? (CONTINUED) 
 Mr. Memory?   Do not make me laugh! He LAUGHS HUGELY, turns, takes two steps away and makes absolutely no effort to get their drinks. He looks toward the door. 7   INT. HALLWAY/ENTRANCE TO FUNCTION ROOM - DAY              7 Loretta approaches the function room, where pert  DEBBIE, wearing a JOHNSON FOR CONGRESS button, staffs a  felt- covered table. On  a nearby easel, a photo of a  silver- haired Man with a legend in blue and gold: JEFF   JOHNSON. THE NAME YOU KNOW. 
 (Eurotrash accent) I'm not too late, am I, dear? (extending a hand) Hello, darling, Alma Preston, how are you today? 
 Thanks for coming, Ms. Preston, I'm Debbie Bartle. (consulting a list) Do we have your check yet? Loretta pulls a Mont Blanc pen and a checkbook from her bag. 
 No, honey, I don't think you do, we just got in last night from our place in Barbados -- how much is it? 
 Five hundred a person.   Barbados? 
 (writing) Yes, we're just down the beach from Mick Jagger and Jerry. (looking up) You wouldn't turn down a couple of thousand, would you? A pleased smile from Debbie. Loretta opens the check- book, flashing the immense RING in front of Debbie. 
 Um, that's a lovely ring. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, thank you. I thought it might be a little gaudy...who should I make this out to? 
 Johnson for Congress. It's not gaudy, it's just...nice and big. 
 That's my Carlos...I can't even look in a store window. We're walking down this street in Rio, we pass a jewelry store...I didn't even turn my head and he's in the shop... (holds up ring) ...$250,000. I said it's crazy... but you know Carlos. 
 I wish I did. ON Tommy watching Loretta. A Guest standing just behind Tommy -- wearing MRS. ZEKE BRIDGES name tag -- watches JEFF JOHNSON gladhand the room robustly. 
 MRS. BRIDGES I hear they had him open for six hours. ZEKE, a very fat cigar-smoker, marvels at Johnson's appearance. 
 (chuckling) The sum' bitch looks terrific. 
 How about taking our orders, son? 
 Absolutely my friend!    How can I pleasure you? 
 Bourbon straight up and a Perrier rocks for the lady. (CONTINUED) 
 Ah! Fire and ice! Wonderful! But may I suggest you make that a double sir? After all, so many guests, so few of me -- who knows when I may be back? 
 Sure, why not. AT THE ENTRANCE LORETTA pauses before going into the room. 
 You know where the powder room is, hon? I should freshen my face before I go in. 
 It's just over there. ON JEFF JOHNSON with his well-groomed wife, VERA, and a barrel-chested Man in full resort wear, wearing an OLAF ANDERSEN name tag. 
 So how the heck are you, Olaf? 
 I should be asking how you are, congressman. Johnson pats his chest and smiles at Vera. 
 This old ticker never felt better. 
 It's good to see you back on your feet, Jeff. We need you in Washington. Inconspicuously, a pretty young redhead whispers to Vera. This is JENNIFER, Johnson's Administrative Assistant (his AA). 
 How's that granddaughter of yours, Olaf? Ready for the Olympics? 
 She'll be thrilled you asked after her. 8   IN THE HALLWAY Loretta emerges from the Ladies' Room...    8 catches a spike heel... recovers her balance... then frantically searches her hands and clothes, SCREAMS, and gets down on hands and knees. (CONTINUED) 
 My God!    My God! Oh my God! Debbie rushes over to her. 
 What's the matter? 
 (hyperventilating) My --   my ring. My diamond. I took it off   in the ladies' room to wash my hands.    I was just putting it on -- I must   have dropped it. 
 (getting down) Let me help you, we'll find it. 
 Call Security! 9   IN THE FUNCTION ROOM Tommy maintains his watch on          9 Loretta. Zeke Bridges taps Tommy on the shoulder. 
 Hey, what about our drinks? Tommy instantly assumes an ANGRY YOUNG STREET BLACK 
: 
 Yeah?    What you want? 
 What?    You already took our order. 
 That wasn't me! You must be thinking of Jamal. I'm Karim. What you want? 
 Bourbon straight up and a Perrier rocks. 
 (snorts derisively) Hunh. He walks two steps...and once again makes no attempt to get the drinks. Zeke returns to Jeff Johnson. (CONTINUED) 
 Don't get me wrong, Jeff. Pyramid Insurance doesn't want special breaks. I just think we ought to be able to set our own rates without Uncle Sam sticking his nose in our business. Johnson signals Jennifer to come over. 
 Do you know my AA? Zeke Bridges, this is Jennifer, my Administrative Assistant. Zeke's been a tremendous help to us. I'd like you to listen to his view on health insurance. 
 I'd be very happy to. 
 At Pyramid Insurance, we call our approach the Patient's Bill of Rights. 10   IN THE HALLWAY Loretta and Debbie are on hands and      10 knees, still looking. A pair of shoes comes INTO FRAME. They LOOK up at a bullet-headed man. 
 Ms. Preston?   Bruno Handler, hotel security. 
 My ring!   My ring! Oh my god...! 
 Now just calm down, Ma'am... can you describe the ring? 
 It's a diamond ring! A big diamond ring! Oh my Christ! She's frantic.   Debbie takes Bruno aside. 
 I saw it. It's huge... it must be like eight carats. She says it was a quarter of a million dollars! Bruno turns back to Loretta, trying to calm her. (CONTINUED) 
 Ma'am... calm down.   Now, is the ring insured? 
 Of course it's insured! But you know how it works -- if I report it, they'll cancel me. And I don't want another ring! I need this ring! The ring Carlos gave me. Bruno turns, speaks into the walkie-talkie he's carrying. 
 Where the fuck is housekeeping? I called for those dickheads ninety seconds ago. 11   IN THE FUNCTION ROOM the Guests have gathered to hear      11 Johnson speak. As Andersen introduces him, Tommy con- tinues eyeing Loretta. 
 Now I won't run through Jeff's record -- he's been in Congress twenty years, and I've only got two minutes. I'll just say this: When those of us in pharmaceuticals, or agribusiness, or insurance, or (indicating himself) utilities, or you name it -- when we've needed him, Jeff's been there for us. And we've been there for Jeff, too -- we raised a hundred thousand dollars today! 
 (APPLAUSE) Without further ado, our man in Washington, Jefferson Davis Johnson. 12   IN THE HALLWAY Debbie hears the (O.S.).   She     12 gets up. 
 I should be in there. Good luck, Ms. Preston. I hope you find it. She leaves.   Loretta, mascara smeared, gets up, as does Bruno. 
 I can't go in there like this. God! Please... listen... I'll pay a ten thousand dollar reward for anybody who finds my ring. Just don't tell Carlos! (suddenly grim) He'll kill me. 
 What do you make of all this campaign reform business, Jeff? 
 Well, y'know Ernie... these days, everyone's down on the political action committees and so-called special interests. But, heck, I think you and Fran have a right to participate in our democracy in exactly the way you're doing today. I'm in Congress to represent you. I don't want any so-called reform to take that power away from you. 14   APPLAUSE (O.S.). IN THE HALLWAY Bruno issues orders to     14 two Maintenance Men. 
 I want every heating grate opened and inspected. I want every air conditioning duct vacuumed. Do you understand what I'm saying? AS he speaks, Bruno SEES Tommy pass through the hallway ... spot something on the floor... pick it up... furtive- ly put it in his pocket... and walk rapidly toward the door to the kitchens. 
 (running after him) Hey, you! Waiter! Hold it right there! 
. 
 No! Please! Do not report me! I will be deported! 
 Calm down.   What've you got in your pocket? 
 I told the CIA everything! I agreed to poison the pineapples! My green card is in the mail! (CONTINUED) 
 Stow it! I'm not Immigration, I'm hotel security. Now, what did you just put in your pocket? 
 Nothing. 
 I'm warning you, flathead, get cute with me and I will tear you a second asshole. Now a valuable diamond ring is mising... 
 Valuable? We can almost see the light bulb click on above Bruno's head. 
 Very valuable. All right, I'll give you a hunnert bucks for it. 
 A hundred and five? Bruno snorts agreement, goes for his wallet... Tommy goes gor the ring... then suddenly leaps back in a cringe! 
 No! It's a trick! You will call me a thief and send me back and the Security Police will make me stand on my head in the guano pit! I have seen such things on 
! Bruno snaps and GRABS TOMMY BY THE COLLAR. 
 Jesus, I'm not trying to trick you... 
 No, no... it is a trap! I must turn this over to police. He starts to leave.   Bruno grabs him. (CONTINUED) 
 Listen, dipshit... a valuable ring is missing and there's thousands of dollars in reward money waiting. So you'd better fork over... 
 How big is this... reward? Another lightbulb. 
 Um, five hundred dollars. 
 You said 'thousands.' 
 Yeah.     Right.    A thousand dollars. 
 No, no, no...you said thousands. With an 'S'. This is plural. This means "two or more thousands." 
 (deep sigh) Okay, you win. Two thousand. 
 Or more.     Two or more. Bruno's had enough -- his grip tightens around Tommy's neck. 
 Just making a point. 15   IN HOTEL LOBBY AT THE CASHIER'S DESK Bruno slides a          15 check to the Cashier, who counts a stack of bills. Bruno picks up a house phone, dials. 16   INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY                                        16 ARMANDO, still unshaven, answers the RINGING phone. 
 Hello? INTERCUT with Bruno in the lobby. 
 Hello, may I speak with Ms. Preston? (CONTINUED) 
 She's in the bathroom. This is Carlos. Can I take a message? 
 (smiling to himself) No, thanks, I'll call back. ARMANDO hangs up the phone and exits the hotel room. crosses to the far side of the lobby, where Tommy waits inconspicuously. He gives him the money. Tommy gives him ring. 
 Now get back to work! As Tommy heads back to the function room, Bruno picks up a house phone, dials, listens. He dials again, listens. No answer. He dials the operator. 
 This is Bruno in Security. Put me through to 502 -- there must be something wrong with the line, I can't get an answer... What do you mean, there's no one in 502? I just spoke to them!... No one's registered in 502? Are you sure?... Well, check again!... Shit! He hangs up, looks at the ring, and realizes he's been taken. His face twisting with rage, he hurries after Tommy. 17   ON TOMMY MOVING swiftly through the function room toward 17 an exit. Zeke Bridges grabs him. 
 Hey!   Where the hell are our drinks. Surprised, Tommy opts for an EAST INDIAN ACCENT. 
 I remember... you were the sloe gin fizz and the mango daquiri? With perhaps a small umbrella for the lady? 
 Bourbon neat and a Perrier, dammit! 
 And would you still be wanting the umbrella then? (CONTINUED) 
 Olaf, there's something I wanted to sound you out on. As a special friend. 
 Shoot. Tommy moves away from the pillar, sees Bruno roaming the terrace, and retreats. 
 I'm thinking of retiring from Congress. Andersen's eyes widen in astonishment. 
 You're what? 
 I'm thinking maybe I won't run. Maybe I should listen more (indicating his heart) to this. Really appreciate these years. Sail around the world. Climb mountains. Enjoy the finer things of life. 
 Jeff. Listen to me. You can't retire. Florida needs you. I need you. I need you on rates. I need you on regulations. I need you on those environmental nutcases -- 
 Olaf, if I retire this year, I get to keep all the money left over in my campaign treasury. Comes to a very tidy nest-egg. 
 How tidy? (CONTINUED) 
 One-point-three million. (chuckles) It's called the grandfather loophole. Bruno has gone.   But Tommy stays.   His eyes light up at the money. 
 Come on, Jeff. Look at what you'd be giving up. Going to the best resorts in the world and calling it "official business." Golfing and skiing and fishing, and never picking up a tab. And, Jeff -- there's no aphrodisiac like power. You can have some of the most intelligent, attractive women in the country. You've got it made! 
 Oh, I suppose that one-point-three may seem like spare change to the head of Gulf Coast Power, but to a country boy like me -- 
 Okay, Jeff. I get it. Look. There's a little software company that's about to go through the roof. Johnson smiles at the direction the conversation is taking. ON Tommy also smiling, in admiration at the transaction going down. 
 A few thousand worth of stock options would stand to make you quite a pile. As long as your blind trust buys them, you're clean -- the SEC can't shake a stick at you. Half a million, easy -- and that's just a start. 
 Well, if you put it like that... I now see I have a duty to continue my career in public service. Johnson stands, puts his arm on Andersen. Tommy emerges, shakes his head, and laughs. 
 I'm in the wrong business. 
. 
 The best li'l roper in America! But she doesn't want the charm. 
 You took your time. 
 Cops bust you, Tommy? 
 Busted?   Moi?    Fuck no. He pulls out the wad of bills.       Their faces brighten considerably. 
 That look like busted? 20   EXT. CAPITOL - NIGHT                                           20 Washington, D.C.   The illuminated dome of the Capitol. 21   INT. CONGRESSIONAL OFFICE - NIGHT                              21 CAMERA ROAMS the well-hung walls. From the photos and memorabilia, we realize that we are in the office of Rep. Jeff Johnson. In the reflections on the frames, we GLIMPSE some MOVEMENT on the desk explaining the considerable BREATHING and MOANING (O.S.). 
 (O.S.) Oh my God.     Oh my God. Oh my... But then a strange GURGLING sound (O.S.) escapes from Johnson. 
 (O.S.) ... God. A silent beat.   Then a horrified CRY.      Jennifer rises 
. 
 Oh my god! 
 It was my honor to serve in Congress with Jeff Johnson for a generation. No one could have been a better legislator. No one could have been a finer husband and father. And now -- He presses the tips of his fingers together and looks skyward, as if communing with his memory of the deceased. 
 And now God has called his servant home. ANGLE ON Jennifer, in black. 
 (O.S.) We will miss him. But we are grateful that his passing was so peaceful -- and so like him -- working late into the night at his desk, the consummate public servant. (CONTINUED) 
 Vera, I know you're still in shock from Jeff's... passing. But we have to talk about his seat. Vera stares at Jennifer.   She knows the score. 
 Mrs. Johnson, if you'd like to discuss this in private -- 
 You can stay -- what's the difference? 
 Vera, I'd like you to announce that you're going to run for Congress. Let a few days pass to show proper respect. But next week, I want to stand next to you at a press conference where you declare for Jeff's seat in the House. 
 No, Dick -- no. 
 There's nothing to be afraid of, Vera. With your name, you can't lose. People around these parts are so used to voting for Jeff Johnson -- why, Mrs. Jeff Johnson would win in a walk. 
 Dick, I was a Washington wife for twenty years. Twenty years of Potomac bullshit is plenty for one lifetime. 
 Vera, we're talking about becoming a Member of Congress. We're talking about a sure thing. (CONTINUED) 
 Don't worry about running the office -- I'll be there night and day. 
 I'm sure you would, dear. But I couldn't give you the same job satisfaction Jeff gave you. Jennifer, embarrassed, didn't know Vera knew.    Nor did Dodge. 24   OMITTED                                                      24 
 This is very sweet of you, darling. But you shouldn't have done it. Where did you get the money? 
 You don't want to know. 
 How did I end up with a thief for a grandson? 
 Grandma -- I told you.    I'm not a thief. I'm a con man.     An artist. 
 But also a crook. (CONTINUED) 
 But I only con crooks, Grandma. You can't con an honest man. Only somebody who wants something for nothing. (pause) But the good Lord must have been fond of pigeons, because he made so many of them. 
 Sometimes I just wish you were more like your Daddy... 
 You mean, dead? 
 No, smartmouth... I mean someone who made something of himself. 
 (pointing at TV) LOOK...it's the ad! VIDEO...a cheap TV spot -- a busty blonde in a skimpy outfit tossing her hair and pouting. 
 (V.O.) (fake Swedish accent) I am Inga. I'm here from Sweden and I'm s-o-o lonely. I need a man...and so do my girlfriends. VIDEO...Scantily-clad babes to match the names.    Loretta speaks along with the V.O. 
 LORETTA (AND V.O.) ...Maria, my hotblooded Spanish friend...Babette, the Parisian pussycat...and many others. So call the "Girls of Many Nations," at 1-900-555-NATO. SUPER:   CALL 1-900-555-NATO. 
 (Swedish accent) So what do you think of my accent, Grandma? 
 Compared to what? Loretta, why don't you go baste the turkey? (CONTINUED) 
 (calls to Loretta) See?      I told you TV advertising works. He opens the phone and speaks in a toneless, recording- like voice. 
 Hello...you have reached Girls of Many Nations. For Hot Blooded Italian Wildcats, press "one" now. (nothing) For Perky American Cheerleaders, press "two" now. (nothing) For a Sultry Swedish Love Goddess, press "three" now... 
 ("BEEP") He covers the mouthpiece and calls to Loretta. 
 Bingo! Loretta...guy wants to speak to Inga. 
 (o.c.) Tell him to call back.      I'm basting. TOMMY grins mischievously and speaks into the phone in the husky voice of a SWEDISH WOMAN. 
 Ja, this is Inga. Hello Paul... how are you tonight? You are feeling naughty? That's all right ...you have your what in a bowl of oatmeal? Yes, that is very naughty, and maybe a little sick. 
 Disgusting. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh NO! It's my husband Lars. He's home early, I must go before ...you want to talk to Lars too? So you like to talk dirty out of both sides of your mouth. (normal voice) Man, you are one twisted bastard! Laughing, he hangs up. 
 Tommy, please! 
 Sorry, grandma, just getting a third minute out of him. He clicks off the phone and slams it back into Loretta's purse. Loretta, meanwhile, has reappeared. 
 You hung up on Paul? He's one of my best customers. 
 I can't believe any relative of mine does that for a living. 
 C'mon Gramma...it's only my voice. They never actually meet me. 
 So my granddaughter talks dirty for a living and my grandson's a thief. 
 What's up, Grandma? Are you embarrassed to show my picture around the pool? 
 Of course I'm not. Look. She goes to her sewing basket and pulls something from it. She unfolds it: a long piece of needlepoint she's been working on. 
 It spells out Tommy's full name:   Thomas Jefferson Johnson. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Look what these arthritic hands been doing. BACK TO SCENE 
 Make me proud of you, Tommy. Make me proud of the name you carry. In the silence between them that follows, we HEAR the tv. 
 I'm Ned Grable, vice president and general manager of WFLA. We think Mrs. Jeff Johnson did the right thing in not running for the congressional seat left vacant by her husband's death. The editorial catches Grandma's attention. 
 Jeff Johnson's name may still be magic. But it'll take more than the magic of name recognition to solve our region's problems. I'm Ned Grable. 
 Name recognition. Lordy, what a notion. People have to be some boobs just to vote for someone because their name is Johnson. Tommy's eyes widen. 
 I remember once back in Georgia, they even elected a dead man. His name was still on the ballot -- people were just used to voting for him. 
 What did you say, Grandma? 28   EXT. BAIT SHACK - DAY                                       28 HOMER, the proprietor of Homer's Pit Stop, wearing fuel- smeared overalls, is dieseling a Customer's boat down by the water. 
 (O.S.) Homer!    Get your ass over here! (CONTINUED) 
 What's this about, jefe? 
 (calling) Loretta! Get off the damn phone! 
 This better be good. 
 (sarcastic mimic) "This better be good." Loretta! ON LORETTA on the pay phone, moaning in Swedish ecstasy. 
 Oh, ya, ya, God, you're so big! (waving at Tommy) Uh-oh, I have to go now, my husband Sven is home early... Tommy grabs the phone.   He pushes aside a protesting Loretta... 
 Goddammit, Inga, is it that pervert again! Damn! He smacks the receiver with his hand. 
 (into receiver) Listen, you little shit -- I just spent eight years in the joint, nobody talks to my woman like that! I got your adress, I got a machete, I got two Rotweilers... I'm gonna come to your house and tear your ass up! (hangs up, laughing) 
 Okay, Tommy, what's so damn important? 
 Yeah, I got work to do. (CONTINUED) 
 My friends, I want to tell you about a town where the streets are paved with gold. This is a town where the marks give you money before you ask. A town where they take you to dinner after you fuck 'em. A town where when they need money, they just print more. This is a town where a guy bounced nine hundred checks and he didn't even have to skip town!!! 
 Ain't no town like that. 
 You mean Vegas? 
 No. (beat) Washington, D.C.   I'm going to run for Congress. His big smile meets their blank surprise.   Their faces fall. 
 What is this, a joke? 
 I don't get it. 
 What's the con, Tommy? 
 Van Dyke.   You remember Willie Sutton? 
 Of blessed memory. 
 You remember what he said? They asked him, Why do you rob banks? And he said, That's where the money is. I tell you, people -- Washington. That's where the money is. (CONTINUED) 
 I found this shit in the library. You know how much a congressman makes? A hundred and thirty a year -- and that's just base pay for getting your ass elected. Then there are these things called PACs, and these lobbyists, whose whole point in life is to buy you off. It's the con of a lifetime -- and the damn thing is, it's legal! This is hot, people, we can do this! 
 Who "we," white man? 
 You never heard of staff, Armando? I get in, I get a staff allowance of five hundred and thirty-seven grand a year -- Loretta wolf-WHISTLES. 
 -- which I will generously share with you. 
 And how exactly were you going to get your butt to Congress? 
 Yeah -- why would anyone vote for you? 
 Not for me, Homer. For Jeff Johnson. Name recognition -- that's what it's all about. You think folks know their congressman died? I get on the ballot as Jeff Johnson, I guarantee they'll vote for me. Now all's I have to do is get on the ballot. 
 Which is how? (CONTINUED) 
 Which is where you folks come in. (picking up a ream of forms) All's we have to do is collect five thousand six hundred twenty five signatures. 
 You shittin' us? 
 In your dreams, Tommy. 
 You people got a better idea? 
 I do. 29   INT. SILVER FOXES CHAPTER - DAY                           29 Senior citizens fold brochures, stuff envelopes, make phone calls. Van Dyke and Tommy enter. 
 Okay... gimme the four-one-one on these Silver Foxes Again. It's a bunch of old folks who like to vote? 
 Don't laugh, they get an enormous turnout. But the big thing is, they have their own line on the ballot. They already got the signatures. 
 Ah. 
 The lady we're meeting, Hattie Rifkin, they call her the condo queen. 
 So all I have to do is snow one old lady. Don't sound like major surgery. 
 So, what brings you here?   You want to talk politics... talk! 
 We were wondering who you were going to run for Congress this year. 
 Oh, the usual sacrifical lamb. Probably Sylvia Roland. She just lost her husband, she needs to meet new people. Why? 
 Mrs. Rifkin... I want to run. 
 Well, I want to run too -- but with this plastic hip, it's not gonna happen. Tommy breaks up.   In spite of himself, he's charmed by the salty old babe. 
 What I mean is... I'd like to run for Congress on the Silver Fox ticket. I care about you and your issues. 
 Yeah, that's what my son says. But does he call? Anyway, what makes you think a group of alter cockers are gonna support a man who hasn't clipped his first nose hair yet? 
 Because I can win. 
 No, no... a Democrat can win. A Republican can win. A Silver Fox can only make a symbolic point. 
 Mrs. RIfkin, if you give me a ballot line, and if I can get support from... (CONTINUED) 
 If... if. Ven die bubbah halla tsehen qulishkes, het gehaya zadeh. 
 Sure, but... besser die viller ein der kenner. Hattie cracks up.   Tommy leans over and translates for Van Dyke: 
 She said, 'If my grandmother had balls, she'd be my grandfather.' 
 (recovering) Where the Hell did you learn to speak Yiddish? 
 The same place I learned to hustle shtarkers at gin rummy. From Morris Elfbein... the Gin King of Miami Beach. 
 No kidding... you knew the Rudolf Valentino of Dade County? 
 He taught me a great deal. He taught me you don't always need the best cards to win. 
 Maybe not in gin, but in politics, young man, you need money to win, you need a name to win, you... 
 Oh, I have a name. 
 What, you're an athlete, a movie star? I don't get out as much as I used to. You're not on MTV, are you? 
 No ma'am. My name is Johnson.      Jeff Johnson. The Name You Know. (CONTINUED) 
 Jeff Johnson. Well,     that's a name even our Alzheimer's    Group will remember. (beat; shakes    her head) Still, for a full-up    campaign, we'd need materials, we'd    need ads... 
 You leave that to me, Mrs. R. 31   INT. JOHNSON HOME - DAY                                        31 
 I'm not sure I understand, Professor Franklin -- you wrote your doctoral thesis on my husband? 
 He was a great man, Mrs. Johnson. He did so much for my people. 
 He... did? 
 Oh, yes. I'll never forget when he said 'Welfare is a drug -- and you gotta kick it cold turkey.' It was... inspirational. 
 Really... well, I'm sure... 
 And I was actually in the audience when he said, 'If you people would just get off your dead asses and look for work, this country might be fit to live in again.' Powerful stuff. 
 It's very kind of you to say so. And you're very kind to come all the way from... where was it? (CONTINUED) 
 Wilson-Pickett State Teachers College. But I didn't just come to pay respects, ma'am. I came because your husband deserves an archive. A place where scholars can study his legacy. A storehouse for the record of his remarkable career. 
 I see.   So you want... his papers? 
 Oh, not just his papers, Mrs. Johnson. Everything. Buttons, posters, bumper stickers. All the paraphernalia of his campaigns -- proof of his political genius. Now I realize that you may have a sentimental attachment to a few items... 
 Take 'em. 
 I beg your pardon. 
 Take 'em all. Would you like the wedding photos, too? 
 Well, I don't think that's necess... 
 Good -- that way you won't have to go rooting around in the garbage. Is there anything else? 
 Well, um... no. 
 More tea?   Or something stronger? I know it's  only ten-thirty, but, hell, sun's  over the yardarm somewhere,  right? 
 Actually, ma'am, I should be getting back. (CONTINUED) 
 You're in pretty good shape for a professor. D'you work out? Tommy rises and packs his briefcase hastily. 
 Look, I, um, have a class to teach. You know how blind students are... they're so dependent. (edges toward door) Don't worry ma'am... your materials will be in good hands. 
 Are you sure you don't want to come to Washington with us, Homer? 
 You bums got time on your hands. (indicating bait shack) I got a business to run. ON LORETTA working the RINGING pay phone. 
 Hello? Who? The League of Women Voters? Sorry, Mr. Johnson won't be attending the debate. No -- no, Betty, I'm sorry, I can't tie up this line. (hangs up; it RINGS) Hello? The Sarasota Star-Ledger? I'm sorry, we're out of photographs. No, you can't, Mr. Johnson has just had surgery for a deviated septum. (hangs up; it RINGS) Hello? (brightening) Ya, this is Inga. PAN TO TOMMY training a home video camera on a poster that reads JEFF JOHNSON FOR CONGRESS. (CONTINUED) 
 (very white) We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson waving a flag. We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson kissing babies. We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson doing anything, because you already know what Jeff Johnson can do. 
 (V.O.) Tomorrow, vote for Jeff Johnson. The name you know. A very puzzled Vera Johnson watches the ad on tv. 34   SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT (MOS)                               34 The congressional district sleeps. But   in the darkness, a kind of D-Day onslaught is under way.   QUICK SUPER- IMPOSED CUTS of Tommy's secret army of  Silver Foxes, opening crates, fanning through parking  lots, swarming over lawns, driving in stakes, tacking  up posters everywhere. INCLUDE Tommy climbing a telephone pole... Armando shinnying up a light pole across the street... Loretta and Van Dyke pulling on a rope... which hoists a huge bundle to Tommy... who opens and unfolds it... and gets an end through the air to Armando. They unfurl the biggest banner imaginable. 
 Jeff Johnson.    The name you know. In a different appropriate accent. 37     EXT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY                                37 In front of a polling place, Van Dyke pulls up in a hearse with an ELECT JOHNSON banner. So, driving muscle cars, do Armando, Homer, and Loretta -- Tommy's get-out-the-vote fleet. Exhilarated senior citizens pile out, led by Hattie. 38     INT. POLLING PLACE - DAY                                    38 An ordinary Couple, 40s, sign the registration book, then enter adjacent voting carrels. After a moment, the HUSBAND leans out. 
 Who are we voting for Congress? 
 Don't we always vote for Johnson? 
 That's it -- Johnson. HIS HAND punches the hole in the ballot next to Johnson. 39     VIDEO                                                       39 A NETWORK ANCHOR at an election-night news set. 
 If you're just joining us, our exit polls project that in Florida, an unknown, independent candidate whose sole asset appears to be his name may just possibly win a slim victory. 40     OMITTED                                                     40 thru                                                               thru 42                                                                 42 43     EXT. BAIT SHACK - NIGHT                                     43 Blinding lights. Media circus.     TV power cords, a huge tangle snaking back toward mobile   generators. Cameramen narrowly miss knocking each other   into the water. A STEEL DRUM BAND plays "Happy Days   Are Here Again." (CONTINUED) 
 #1 Is that him? Tricia, I believe Congressman-elect Johnson is coming this way. For the first time, we see Tommy wearing a beautifully-cut suit. He's instantly engulfed by lights, cameras, and Supporters. An amazed CAMERAMAN, watching Tommy, whispers to a Producer. 
 Jesus -- he's not... white. I actually voted for the guy. I thought he was Jeff Johnson. Tommy jumps onto a bench.    APPLAUSE from his Supporters. 
 Thank you, thank you, all of you, for your help. Give yourself a round of applause. They do. As APPLAUSE continues (O.S.), CAMERA PANS from Reporter to Reporter to Reporter, their mikes bearing the call-letters of different channels. ON GRANDMA being interviewed. She wears a JOHNSON FOR CONGRESS button and speaks with manifest pride. 
 I've never been so proud in all my life. He was always such a good boy...well, I think he meant well. Sometimes -- well he was a clean child. That's important, I think... PAN TO FLORIDA REPORTER #2 doing a stand-up. 
 #2 Then in Massachusetts, there was a guy named Kennedy who got elected, but he wasn't really a Kennedy. 
 -- (CONTINUED) 
 #3 A lot of dead incumbents get re-elected, actually. It's an American tradition. ON Tommy. Speaking meaningfully, with great sincerity, he shows a gift for political discourse. 
 We ran a positive campaign. We campaigned on the issues. The issue is leadership. Leadership for the future. Ask not what you can do for your country. The people have spoken. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. If you can't stand the heat stay out of the kitchen. Live Free or Die. And in conclusion...read my lips! (APPLAUSE and CHEERS) 44   INT. AIRPLANE - DAY                                         44 Tommy looking out the window at the city below. 45   EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - AERIAL VIEW - DAY - (STOCK)         45 The approach to National Airport gives a good view of Washington and its landmarks. 
 The promised land. 46   EXT. AIRPORT RUNWAY - DAY                                   46 
 (O.S.) Congressman Johnson! Congressman Johnson! Tommy looks. It's REINHHARDT, a young straight-arrow bearing two huge document briefcases, which he puts down to shake hands. (CONTINUED) 
 Arthur Reinhardt. You remember me -- I Fed-Exed that material to you in Key West? 
 Reinhardt, my man! Of course! You look just like I pictured you. Nice wing tips. 
 Thank you. Congressman, I hope you don't think I'm out of line for meeting you here -- I thought you might want some help with logistics, settling in at your hotel -- (indicating the briefcases) Since you didn't make it to the Harvard seminar, I put together a set of their papers for you. 
 I like your initiative, Reinhardt, but to tell you the truth, I've never been much of a student. Maybe you can brief my staff sometime. Reinhardt looks Tommy's cronies over.     Not your classic Hill types. 
 But thank you, I will take you up on those logistics. Hey! Entourage! What hotel we at? 
 Reinhardt, it appears that the staff has neglected to nail down some details. 
 Oh, Jesus, the IMF's in town.    Where are we going to find a room? 
 Four rooms. 48   OMITTED                                                      48 
 I got lucky at the Madison. Thank god there's been a coup in Uruguay. Their delegation just checked out. 
 You're a wizard, Reinhardt.    I knew you could handle it. 50   EXT. AIRPORT TAXI RANK - DAY                                 50 
 So when does the House open for business? Reinhardt hasn't heard it put quite that way before. Reinhardt gets his courage up. 
 Say, Congressman, you got my resume, didn't you? 
 (hasn't a clue) I'm sure I did. 
 There's something I wanted to ask you. I know it's a big step, but -- I'd like you to consider me to be your AA. 
 That's quite an offer, Reinhardt, very decent of you, but I'm just a social drinker. 
 No. AA. Your Administrative Assistant. I worked for Congressman Johnson. I'd like to work for you, Congressman Johnson. 
 Really. Tommy looks at his own troops, then back to Reinhardt. (CONTINUED) 
 You mean like an affirmative action thing? Tommy opens the cab door. 
 Tell you what -- I'll think about it, okay? Tommy gets in and closes the door. 
 (through the open window) Thanks for getting us settled, really appreciate it. (to driver) Madison Hotel. 51   OMITTED                                                    51 52   EXT. MEMORIAL BRIDGE - MAGIC HOUR                          52 The bridge over the Potomac has a classic view of the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument. Their taxi drives by. 53   OMITTED                                                    53 &                                                               & 54                                                              54 55   EXT. CANNON BUILDING - DAY                                 55 Morning. Tommy and cronies get out of a cab and bound up the grand flight of stairs. In b.g., the Capitol dome. 
 Sorry, folks, this elevator's for Members only. (CONTINUED) 
 That's okay, they're with me. Sixth floor please. Cannon 609. I'm going to my office. 
 I said Members only. 
 I am a Member. Now take us to six before I haul your ass in front of the committee on disrespectful behavior. 
 Elevator don't go to six. You have to get off at five and walk. 57   INT. CANNON STAIRWELL - DAY                                 57 Looking puzzled, they make their way up a drab stairwell. 58   INT. CANNON TOP FLOOR - DAY                                 58 Not classy. On one side of the hallway, the windows give out on a brutally ugly courtyard. On the other side of the hall are cages: windowless storage bins behind metal fences crammed with junk -- and an occasional xerox machine, Mr. Coffee, and pitiful staffer at a tiny desk. Tommy opens the door to 609. 59   INT. TOMMY'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY                           59 Tommy's office is a small, dark garret, with dirty car- peting, bare shelves, and a pile of bulging canvas U.S. Mail bags. 
 Wait here. He heads further into the office. 60   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY                                   60 Equally unattractive.   Perched on the desk:   Reinhardt. 
 You again! 
 Good morning, congressman. 
 What is this shithole? (CONTINUED) 
 Excuse me? 
 (gesturing, peeved) This. 
 (casual) Oh -- you missed the freshman   lottery for offices. They assign them    by draw. You didn't show for the    draw, so you got the worst office in   Congress. 
 I missed what lottery? 
 It was all in the briefing books I mailed you. 
 What else did I miss, Reinhardt? 
 Are you hiring me, congressman? Tommy gives Reinhardt a good once-over, seeing him anew. 
 You're shaking me down, aren't you? Tommy laughs, then clasps Reinhardt's shoulders. 
 This is fantastic, Reinhardt. I haven't been here five minutes, and you're shaking me down. God, I'm gonna love this town. You're hired, man. Just tell me what to do next. I don't want to miss out on any of the good shit. 
 The dinner for new Members is tonight, at Union Station. Do you have black tie? BEGIN elegant, spirited classical MUSIC. 61   INT. UNION STATION - MAIN HALL - NIGHT                      61 With its hundred-foot barrel-vaulted ceiling and grand windows, the magnificent Beaux-Arts station has been beautifully restored. (CONTINUED) 
 Let's meet some natives. Tommy leads her over to two Men, 30s, excellent haircuts. Both wear pins. He extends a hand. 
 Tommy Johnson, how'd you do, nice party, heck of a railroad station, isn't it? 
 Rafe Simon, freshman from Tulsa. And this is Bo Chandler -- 
 -- from Lufkin, Texas. You must be the one who didn't come to Harvard. 
 No, I couldn't, it was my Princeton reunion.... 
 Jeff Johnson? You're Jeff Johnson? The guy from Florida? 
 That's right. 
 (to Bo) The rest of us are out there on the campaign trail, raising money, kissing ass, making speeches, dragging our butts from place to place -- and he slides in on pure name recognition! (CONTINUED) 
 Let me tell you something, Jeff. A tense beat.   Then Rafe breaks into a smile. 
 Fuckin' brilliant. Bo winks at Tommy. Tommy Thank you. Thank you both very much. (to Loretta) Isn't that nice, now, don't you think? (to Rafe and Bo) This is Miss Loretta, boys. She extends a regal hand to each, Liza Doolittle at the ball. 
 How do yo do.    How do you do. 
 And it's Tommy. My friends call me Tommy. "Jeff" is my... professional name. So what line of work were you boys in before you got elected? You lawyers or something? 
 Oh, no, I did morning weather and traffic for KTOK in Tulsa. 
 You don't remember me? I was a tight end for the Oilers -- my knee gimped out. The origins of the gentlemen's political success is not lost on Tommy. 
 Hey, stop by my reception after the swearing in tomorrow, okay? 
 Yeah, but don't you go to his reception before you go to my reception. (CONTINUED) 
 Fine, but I'm gonna be real offended if either of you miss my reception. They leave. 
 I think we have to have a reception. AT THE BUFFET, as Tommy and Loretta help themselves generously to oysters and champagne, they overhear TWO MEMBERS passing by. 
 So then I ran an ad calling him a draft dodger, but then he ran an ad calling me a plagiarist. 
 What did you do? 
 Oh, leaked a rumor that his father- in-law was a Nazi. I went up ten points in a weekend. 
 (to Loretta) We're in the majors, doll. 62A   THE BALCONY is full of people working one another. As      62A Tommy and Loretta pass some large stone statues, a man extends his hand -- liquor lobbyist KEN KORNGOLD. 
 Congressman? I'd like to introduce myself. Ken Korngold. National Distilled Spirits Association. 
 Tommy Johnson. Distilled Spirits, is that right? 
 It's super that you won, congressman. Any way we can help, please don't hesitate. 
 Pleasure's all mine, Ken, hope you can make it to my reception. Do you happen to have a card? (CONTINUED) 
 (giving him one) I sure do. 63    INT. UNION STATION - MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT                     63 Tommy is along a wall where other guests are similarly occupied. 
 You now what I love about this place? The way everyone calls you a Member.  Every time I hear that, it makes me think of Mr. Happy here. 
 Don't you be peeing on my shoe. They go to the sinks.    The Member introduces himself. 
 Mike Strangland. Iowa -- first CD. 
 You got a CD?    Shit, I missed that, too. 
 First Congressional district. 
 Ohhh. Tommy Johnson. Florida. So Iowa -- how'd you get to Washington? You do the crop report on tv? IOWA has a big open face and a flat Midwestern voice. 
 No -- I owe it all to the Vietnamese. 
 War hero? 
 P.O.W. When I got back to Cedar Rapids, I spent so many years telling the Rotary Club what was wrong in Washington, they finally told me to put up or shut up -- so I put up. And here I am. (CONTINUED) 
 Wait a minute. What's wrong in Washington? 
 C'mon -- there's acid rain killing fish, and no one's stopping it... there's topsoil washing away, and no erosion program... there's chemicals in our livestock -- God, I sound like a Boy Scout. 
 That's alright, Iowa -- this place could use a few geeks like you. 
 TABLE - NIGHT Tommy shakes hands around the table, taking business cards as he goes. 
 Pete Slocum.   Asbestos Information Institute. 
 Mike Gustofson. Freedom to Advertise Coalition. 
 Paul Zeckhauser. American Tobacco Council. 
 Hey... thank you... nice to see you... hope you can make it to my reception. Have y'all met Miss Loretta?'S TABLEMATE is lawyer-lobbyist O'CONNOR, 40s. As Waiters serve lobster bisque, he hands TJ a business card. 
 O'CONNOR Tommy O'Connor. Soon as I saw how you got elected, I knew you were a real comer. Hell, I bet old Olaf Andersen voted for you. 
 Who's Olaf Andersen? (CONTINUED) 
 O'CONNOR (O.S.) I won't tell him you asked. Chairman of Gulf Coast Power. Constituent of yours, client of mine. BACK TO SCENE 
 O'CONNOR Pays the rent, know what I    mean? Say, could I host a little    welcome- to-Washington thing for you    down at my law firm? Meet some of     my clients, five hundred a head -- you    could pick up twenty, twenty-five    grand to get you started. 
 (cautious) And how much of that do you get? 
 O'CONNOR (amused) Oh,    it doesn't come off the top. Down    the road, I'll bill 'em each five    hundred an hour whenever I take    you to lunch. 
 Tommy, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful relationship. 65   INT. UNION STATION - ADIRONDACKS - NIGHT - ON DODGE         65 
 Tonight we unite the two great pillars of our system -- political and financial. To the forty-four newly-elected Members of Congress, I say, Look around you tonight. Look around, and be thankful for the generosity. Tommy inspects the sea of barracudas. (CONTINUED) 
 The people you see not only provided tonight's hospitality. They are the people you serve. That's our system of checks and balances at its best. Their support helped get you elected... your work will help them... and their support will help you in your next campaign, which I remind you is already less than two years away. 66   INT./EXT. ADIRONDACKS - LARGE DOORS - NIGHT                66 In b.g., the Capitol dome. As Tommy and Loretta leave, they pass Dick Dodge, who is saying goodnight to guests. He stops them. 
 You know, Mr. Johnson, it's customary for new Members to pay a courtesy call on the old fogies in the leadership. Especially from their HOME STATE. 
 Well, I would have, but I just got to town. It's an honor to meet you, sir. A real privilege. This is Miss Loretta. 
 Public liaison. She pronounces the word so carefully, it sounds lewd. 
 How do you    do? (to    Tommy) You could    make up for it by having a nightcap    with me. (to    Loretta) May I have    my car take you home? 67   EXT. CAPITOL HILL - NIGHT                                  67 Tommy and Dodge walk up steps toward the Capitol. 68   INT. HALLWAY - CAPITOL - NIGHT                             68 A darkened hallway. A hand-lettered sign by a door reads COMMITTEE ON POWER AND INDUSTRY. THE CHAIRMAN. MR.. Tommy and Dodge approach. As Dodge unlocks the door: (CONTINUED) 
 Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but this ain't no homo shit we up to, is it? 
 No.  No, it's not. But -- (amused) Good thinking, Johnson. I'm impressed by your instincts. 69   INT.'S OFFICE - CAPITOL - NIGHT                      69 A single table lamp lights Dick Dodge's office, reflecting off the velvet drapes, sculpted ceiling, and crystal chandeliers. Tommy and Dodge are in leather armchairs, ties undone. On the table between them, a bottle of Jim Beam. Dodge casts a cool eye on Tommy. 
 Tell me, Johnson. Why did you come to Washington? 
 Well... of course... it's a chance to do something for my country. I mean, there's the topsoil thing, and acid rain is killing the cattle -- 
 Cut the bullshit, Johnson. I saw how you got elected. Flukes like you are either nutcases or troublemakers. I just want to know which one I have on my hands. Who sent you here? 
 No one sent me. 
 You pulled off that upset on your own? 
 (acknowledging modestly) Kid's got his talents. 
 I'm impressed, Johnson, I am.     But why did you run for Congress? 
 No bullshit? (CONTINUED) 
 No bullshit. 
 Opportunity knocks.    This town is the fuckin' Yukon. A stunned silence from Dodge -- then deep and generous laughter. 
 What a refreshing answer. He laughs again, richly amused.   Tommy joins in the laughter. 
 Food... drinks. 
 (reads card) Ken Korngold, National Distilled Spirits Association. Bob Rafferty ...Wisconsin Cheese Board. (to Tommy) What do you want me to do? 
 You're on cheese. I'll handle booze. He reaches for the phone... 72   EXT. DISTILLER'S BUILDING - DAY                              72 Pan from Capitol Hill to gleaming glass office building. 
 (V.O.) (taking the phone) Ken! Ken Korngold! Tommy Johnson here... Right -- last night. How's it going, big guy? 
 (V.O.) Congressman! 
 How are you on this helluva fine day! I'm looking forward to your reception. INTERCUT TOMMY AND 
 Actually, that's why I'm calling, Ken. You said if I needed some help -- 
 You name it, congressman. Issue papers, testimony, floor speeches -- 
 Tell you what I have in mind. I was just thinking, wouldn't it be a plus for old Ken Korngold if I was to -- how should I put this -- showcase some of his distillers' products at my reception? You know, like they put Reese's pieces in E.T.? It's called "product placement." People come in, they have a tremendous time, they see your products, they think well of you -- and they think well of me, too. It's good for both of us, Ken. What do you say? 
 Well, it's a new one on me, but hey, sure, I think we can help you out.  Say, while I have you on the line, there was one thing... 74   INT. HOUSE CHAMBER - DAY                                   74 The SPEAKER administers the oath of office to the assembled House. 
 Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the Constitution of the United States... ON GRANDMA next to Tommy, eyes welling with pride. It's the one day a year that non-Members (meaning families) can be on the floor. (CONTINUED) 
 ... against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and allegiance to the same... 75   INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE - DAY - VIDEO - WIDE SHOT OF HOUSE       75 The 435 Members (with family) taking the oath, watched on C-span by Loretta, Armando, Van Dyke, and Reinhardt. 
 (V.O.) ... that you take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion... 
 (V.O.) ... and that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which you are about to enter. So help you God? TOMMY (AND MEMBERS) I do. 
 (V.O.) Congratulations. You are now Members of Congress. Sustained APPLAUSE.   Tommy kisses Grandma. INTERCUT Tommy's cronies APPLAUDING. 
 It's just that -- I'm so happy you straightened out. Tommy smiles ambiguously. As APPLAUSE continues, his eyes roam the room and make contact with Dick Dodge, standing at one of the leadership tables. Tommy winks conspiratorially at him. There's such diabolical glee in it, it even takes Dodge aback. 77   INT. CANNON TOP FLOOR - DAY                                  77 A beautiful black woman, 20s, walks briskly down the busy Cannon corridors. CELIA. There's intelligence in her eyes, and fire. (CONTINUED) 
 Celia's hands print CELIA KIRBY.    PRO BONO. BACK TO SCENE - ON Tommy and Reinhardt talking with a 
. 
 It's an informal breakfast. You give us your views, we give you bacon and eggs, plus a couple of thousand dollar honorarium. (winking) For your favorite charity. Tommy looks at Reinhardt, who explains. 
 The Tommy Johnson Foundation. 
 (savoring the word) Honorarium. I like that. Loretta appears with a platter of food. 
 Herring, gentlemen? 
 Uh, no thanks. 
 Really? We've got it in cream sauce and in wine sauce. (CONTINUED) 
 I think I'll pass. Tommy steers her aside and takes a roll of soggy, toothpick-impaled herring. 
 What is this?    Where's the cheese? 
 The cheese guy didn't return my call. So I called the guy at the American Smoked Fish Institute. She points at the food table. There's nothing but a few boxes of crackers and two huge mounds of herring -- one white, one pink. The centerpiece is a large smoked fish, eyes staring accusingly. 
 Oh, that's just wonderful. Sixty heavy hitters drop in, and I'm feeding 'em cat food. He breaks off, as Celia comes into view in the doorway behind. Tommy picks her up on his radar. 
 We'll talk about this later. We follow Tommy through the crowd until he reaches Celia. 
 Hi   there. Glad you could make it. So   you're... Celia Kirby. That's an   extremely beautiful name. For an   extremely beautiful woman. 
 Wow! That's smooth. After ten straight hours on my feet making small talk and breathing cheap cigar smoke, that's exactly the kind of line I'm ready to fall for. 
 Whoa, slow down. 
 Sure, sure, forget it. Can you just tell me, which one's Congressman Johnson? (CONTINUED) 
 What if I said... me? 
 Oh. I see. So tell me, Congressman, just how deep is the shit I'm standing in? Tommy has to laugh. 
 Don't worry about it. Why don't we just start over again? 
 Celia Kirby. I'm the legislative director of Pro Bono. 
 Ah. Pro Bon. That's an extremely beautiful name. For an extremely beautiful organization. Um... what is it? 
 (amused) We're a public interest research and advocacy group. I'd like to brief you on our priorities this session. Can I call your AA to get on your schedule? 
 Why don't you brief me over dinner tonight? 
 I want an appointment, Congressman, not a date. 
 Yeah, sure, we'll type it up on the schedule, it'll be an appointment, except with wine and flowers on the table. 
 No thanks.   I really should be going. 
 Won't you at least stay for a drink and some herring? (CONTINUED) 
 I'm afraid I'm busy. 
 Well then, can I tempt you with a smelt? 
 No thanks. (extending her hand) Nice to meet you. I'll be in touch with your office. I especially look forward to hearing your view on extending the sexual harassment law to include congressmen. 
 I love the way you say that. She slips out through the sea of revelers. 79   EXT. CAPITOL - DAY                                         79 A fine Washington morning. 80   OMITTED                                                    80 81   EXT. CAPITOL STEPS - DAY                                   81 Rep. ELIJAH MARSHALL, 50s, black, and a pain in Dodge's ass, is shaking hands and saying goodbye to some Constituents. Dodge approaches. (CONTINUED) 
 I heard in the steam room you're going to try to screw up my ethics bill. 
 Not screw up.    Amend. 
 Come on, Eli, your amendments don't have a chance in hell to pass. My bill isn't perfect, I know, but it'll pass. And the President'll sign it. 
 "Isn't perfect"? Dick, your bill's the Incumbents Protection Act! How can you even call it an ethics bill? 
 Because the public wants an ethics bill! So that's what we call it. 
 But it's got no teeth! It won't change a thing, and you know it. 
 Come on, Eli, you're a politician, too. The less you're going to do about something, the more you have to talk about it. You know that. They start walking. 
 I see. We close the bank, we stop the rubber checks, we raise the prices in the barber shop, we stop fixing parking tickets, and abracadabra! We say we've cleaned up Congress. Well, I don't think the American people want what this place has become. 
 That's the beauty of it! They must, Eli -- they keep re-electing us. 
 Not anymore! This new Congress is full of new faces. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, I wouldn't read too much into that. A few extra retirements, some redistricting -- nothing more than that. It's still business as usual up here. Dodge takes his glasses from his pocket and wipes them. 
 I live in the real world, Eli. Do you? What's unemployment up to in your district? Eight percent? Eight-five? 
 Eight point six. 
 Power and Enterprise is about to fund a solar demonstration plant, Eli. It could mean a whole lot to a district -- new jobs, new construction -- that interest you? 
 You can't bribe me, Dick. 82   INT. DODGE'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY                          82 Dodge and Marshall enter. 
 Eli, the people who elected you. They sent you here to help them. Don't you want to? 
 Not  if it means supporting your bill. All  you want is the perfect platform to  campaign for Speaker. Dick Dodge. Mr.  Clean. What a joke! 
 (undeterred) Come on board, Eli. (leaning in) You know -- you can't save the world if you can't save your seat. Tommy enters.   Marshall gives him a once-over and extends a hand. (CONTINUED) 
 We haven't met. Eli Marshall. 
 Tommy Johnson. 
 I know. The Florida upset. Well, now that you're here, what are you going to do with it? You gonna feather your own nest, or are you gonna make something of your office? 
 I plan to be as good a congressman as all the others. 
 Exactly what does that mean? 
 Well, ever since I got back from Nam, I've wanted to do something about the rain forest -- 
 No, do me a favor, don't tell me. I try not to get depressed until the second week of a new session. 
 (ushering Tommy into his office) Eli, you'll excuse us -- we have a meeting. 83   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY                                  83 
 Johnson, I'm the chairman of a committee up here called Power and Industry. We've got an open seat, and I was wondering if you'd consider filling it. 
 Is this good news? (CONTINUED) 
 (tongue in cheek) Well, it is a difficult assignment -- look at what we cover: energy, health, telecommunications, environment... the committee is constantly beset by a swarm of special interests. These are powerful people, they've got all the money in the world, and they're not shy about using it. 
 So... this is very good news. 
 Most members would give their right nut for it. 
 So what do you want from me, Dick? 
 Congressman... I just want you to smile for the cameras. 84   INT. POWER AND ENTERPRISE COMMITTEE - DAY                    84 The committee members -- all white males, except Tommy -- mill around, awaiting the start of the hearings. As the TV cameras whir, Dodge shakes Tommy's hand warmly. Big smiles and an explosion of flashbulbs. Dodge breaks off and Tommy drifts over to Reinhardt. 
 (indicating dais) So, Congressman, welcome to the honey pot. You should be one happy freshman. 
 Yeah? Well, I'm not. I'm suspicious. One thing I've learned is, when somebody gives you something for nothing, the nothing ain't nothing. It's something. What is it? Why me? Reinhardt puts his hand on Tommy's shoulders. (CONTINUED) 
 Congressman, I don't want you to take this the wrong way, but... you're black. And I mean that in the nicest possible way. 
 Keep talking. 
 Dodge wants to run for Speaker. And he ain't gonna make it without votes from the black caucus. Suddenly, Dodge reappears.   He throws his arm around Tommy's shoulders. 
 Tommy, someone I want you to meet... Dodge steers TJ to a preppy-looking man at the witness table -- BARCLAY "SKEETER" WARBURTON. 
 Skeeter, do you know Tommy Johnson? Meet the new member of the committee. Tommy, this is Barclay Warburton. 
 Pleased to meet you, Barclay. WARBURTON'S voice is aristocratic, a la George Plimpton. 
 Skeeter. Please. Been called that since boarding school. 
 Skeeter. 
 Damned fine to meet you. As Dodge and Tommy head for the dais, Tommy imitates Warburton's lockjaw. 
 "Tommy. Please. Been called that since reform school." Dodge chuckles, shakes his head in mock rebuke. Tommy takes his seat at the lower dais, smiles at the Members on his left and right. (CONTINUED) 
 This EPA oversight hearing of the Committee on Power and Industry will come to order. I'd like to welcome our first witness, the distinguished Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency... (Warburton nods) ... but before I do, I note that a new Member is joining us today, the distinguished gentleman from Florida. 
 Morning. Ron Yaeger. Snack-PAC -- Snack Foods Political Action Committee. I have a ten o'clock. 
 Please have a seat. The congressman is running just a little bit late. He sits and opens his briefcase. Van Dyke approaches him with the dignity of a superb butler. 
 Would you care for some herring? 86   INT. CAPITOL FUNCTION ROOM - DAY                            86 Tommy rises to speak at a breakfast meeting. The podium bears the seal of the American Poultry Association. (CONTINUED) 
 Let me start with a confession. I don't know much about poultry. But I do know something about people. And let me tell you: I like you people. So when you have something to say about poultry, I listen. Thank you very much. He sits down to generous APPLAUSE. ON Armando, in attendance, CLAPPING, marveling at the response TJ gets. 87   INT. CATACOMBS - MOVING - DAY                              87 Capitol Hill is actually two worlds: the aboveground buildings that visitors and television cameras see, and the catacombs, the busy tunnels and corridors connecting the congressional office buildings and the Capitol. They're surprisingly unglamorous -- exposed pipes, white- washed brick walls, dumpsters, pizza carry-outs -- and through them move the legislators and their staffs. And here is Tommy, whistling ZIPPEDY DOO DAH. He loves this place. Passing a snack bar, he greets the Cashier. 
 My man. He blows a kiss to a pretty Teller in the credit union. Passing the barber shop, he calls out to the Shoeshine Guy. He passes a black TELEPHONE MAN at an open panel of wires. 
 Tommy!    What's up, man? 
 (whispering) Sweet Sue. Third race at Santa Anita. 88   INT.'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY                          88 Several lobbyists are now awaiting Tommy balancing plates of herring on their knees. Some are enjoying it more than others. Tommy breezes in. 
 Hey, how you folks doin', good to see you, Van Dyke making you comfortable? Tommy hits a button on a tape deck, turning on some EASY LISTENING. (CONTINUED) 
 Be with y'all shortly. BEHIND THE DIVIDER, outside Tommy's office door, Tommy has a word with Reinhardt. Tommy indicates his office. 
 She in there? Reinhardt nods.   Tommy gives himself a couple of squirts of Binaca. 
 Stick around for this, Reinhardt. I've finally figured something out about the women in this town. 89   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY                                  89 Tommy and Reinhardt meeting with Celia and an elfin guy in corduroy. 
 Thank you for seeing us, congressman, we won't take up much of your time. This is Ira Schecter, our research director. 
 Hi, good to meet you, you folks know Reinhardt, don't you? Don't rush, Miss Kirby, we can take as long as we want. 
 But you have people waiting, and -- 
 That's all right. They can wait. 
 Well. She pulls documents from her briefcase and hands them to Tommy. 
 These are issue papers. This session we're targeting auto insurance premiums, child safety, and food additives.   As votes come up, we know you'll be hearing plenty from the other side. We'd just like a clean shot at making our case, too. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 CELIA (CONT'D) (rising) So, we'll follow up with your staff in the next week or... 
 Wait a minute, you just got here. I clean my calendar, and you're out the door. Let's back up, give this stuff the attention it deserves. Car insurance... Ira, what do you pay? 
 Oh, I've got an '85 Plymouth, about six-fifty a year... 
 Six-fifty? Highway robbery! A chop shop wouldn't give you more than a hundred forty for a junker like that. (beat) Or so I've heard. (beat) But I'm flying blind here, I need depth. Could Miss Kirby put together a briefing? Maybe schedule a Saturday or two to really dig into the issues? 
 (surprised and pleased) Oh... we'd be delighted. We've got some figures that will amaze you. 
 I'm sure you do. 
 (rising) Well, we won't take up any more... 
 Whoa, whoa, hold on, what about child safety? 
 Well, we're sponsoring a bill imposing safety standards on imported toys... (CONTINUED) 
 Great! About time! I     hate imported toys. What about food    additives? How about we block out   a few evenings, you can take   me through the details. 
 Celia, if that's what the Congressman wants... any problem? 
 (to him) You want to do this in the evening? 
 I'm away for the next two weeks. She gives him a look.    Ira turns to Tommy. 
 So, when can Celia start your briefings? 
 Saturday night? 
 Saturday night sounds fine. 
 Fine. Wednesday morning.      Nine- fifteen. 90   INT. CATACOMBS - NIGHT - CLOSE ANGLE - A SIGN                 90 
 Let's get serious, fellas. 93   INT. CATACOMBS (OR CORRIDOR) - NIGHT                          93 Tommy, Marshall, and the Bulldog, back in suits, exit the MEMBERS ONLY door and move through the catacombs. 
 I need your help on the ethics bill, Leon. I want you to co- sponsor my amendments. 
 You make a persuasive case, Eli. 
 That wasn't a yes. 
 (courteously ambiguous) I promise to give it the attention it deserves. The Bulldog gives Tommy a friendly squeeze -- 
 Better luck next time, son. -- and leaves them.   Tommy and Marshall continue on. 
 He took six hundred dollars off you that last hand, didn't he? 
 Yeah, he's taking a real shine to me. 
 If I didn't know better, I'd say you lost to him on purpose. 
 Nothing wrong with letting the chairman of the ethics committee roll you once in a while. (CONTINUED) 
 (shaking his head) You fit in real well up here.   Too well. 
 So Eli, how come you haven't asked for my help with your amendments? 
 Give it a rest, Tommy. You've got a great jump shot. But everyone knows you're Dick Dodge's boy. 
 (bristling) I'm nobody's boy, mister. 
 (weary) Don't waste your outrage on me. I know what you are. 
 I'm no different from anyone else. 
 That's not true. Some people here actually try to do something besides save their own ass. 
 You know, Eli, I like you, I really do. You remind me of my father. 
 Oh, really?   How so? 
 He thought I was scum, too. BELLS begin RINGING and LIGHTS FLASHING on all the clocks and sconces down the corridor. Three RINGS, pause, three RINGS, pause... Marshall does a U-turn. Tommy doesn't follow suit. 
 Aren't you going to vote? 
 (indicating clocks) Vote? Is that what that is? We got a pool going in the office on when it'll go off next. 
 Excuse me -- Congressman? Do you have a moment? We're from the Hawthorne Avenue School, in Union, New Jersey? I'm Mrs. Kozlowski. Social Studies. We were just learning how a bill becomes a law. (indicating the 
) Was that a vote? 
 Yes, it was. 
 And what did you vote? 
 I voted "Nay." It's a terrible bill. It'd destroy the fabric of American life. 
 And what was the vote on? Tommy hasn't a clue. He calls out to Rafe, who is among those leaving the chamber. 
 Hey, Rafe! Tell these kids what that vote was about. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TOMMY (CONT'D) (to kids) Guy's got a real knack for explaining things. 
 Well, it was a motion to reconsider the motion to reconsider. Bo, passing by, intervenes. 
 No, it was the rule on amending the reauthorization. 
 Which means? 
 Clean Air. 
 (overlapping) School lunches. 
 You're in excellent hands, kids. 94    INT. RESTAURANT - DAY                                       94 A NOISY restaurant popular with lobbyists. Power photos on the wall. Table hopping. People SHOUTING greetings across the room. Waiters in long aprons. Tommy is having lunch with Tommy O'Connor. 
 O'CONNOR You're a gentleman, Tommy. We can always do bid'ness -- I like that in a Member. 
 Thank you, Tommy. I love you too. 
 O'CONNOR Listen, I'd like to do more money for you -- I just need to know your positions on a few issues. O'Connor takes out a pen and leather notecard case. 
 O'CONNOR For instance, where are you on sugar price supports? (CONTINUED) 
 Sugar price supports. Where do you think I should be, Tommy? 
 O'CONNOR Shit -- makes no difference to me. If you're for 'em, I got money for you from my sugar producers in Louisiana and Hawaii. If you're against 'em, I got money for you from the candy manufacturers. 
 You pick. 
 O'CONNOR (writing) Let's put you down as for. Now what about putting limits on malpractice awards? 
 You tell me. 
 O'CONNOR Well, if you're for 'em, I got money from the doctors and insurance companies. If you're against 'em, I got money from the trial lawyers. Tell you what, let's say against. Now how about pizza? 
 (indicating his plate) I'll stick with the salad. 
 O'CONNOR Not for lunch, shmuck, for PAC money. A lot of the frozen pizzas use phony cheese. There's a law pending requiring them to disclose it on their labels. Where do you stand? Tommy thinks it through. 
 If I vote for the labels...then I get money from the dairy industry... (CONTINUED) 
 O'CONNOR Good... 
 And if I vote against the labels, I get money from the frozen food guys. 
 O'CONNOR Excellent! And don't forget the ranchers, because they get hurt if pepperoni sales go down! 
 (laughing in admiration) A pepperoni lobby. I love this town. 
 O'CONNOR So which is it? 
 Fuck the cheese people. Thanks to them my office smelled like smelt for a week. 
 O'CONNOR All right.    For. 
 So Tommy, tell me -- with all this money on every side, how does anything get done? 
 O'CONNOR It doesn't!    That's the genius of the system! 95   INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE - DAY                                95 A briefing in progress. Flip charts, ring binders, Celia, Ira, a couple of other Pro Bono types. Tommy is riveted by Celia. 
 It comes down to a question of what is acceptable risk. Are we willing to feed our kids a substance that causes cancer in lab rats? More important, who gets to make the decision? Bureaucrats and big corporations, or the people whose lives depend on it? 
 Mr. Willie? Congressman Johnson is calling. Can you take his call? Thank you. Please hold. Van Dyke puts him on hold, counts to three, gets back on the line. 
 I'm sorry, Mr. Willie, he just picked up another call. Listen, I know why he was calling -- he hasn't heard from you about his fundraiser... PAN TO Armando. 
 ... That's right, Mr. Brown, on the thirtieth... A thousand a couple...A whole table? He'll be so happy to hear it. Thank you so much. (calling) Loretta! Put down nuclear power for ten g's. PAN TO Loretta, who chalks the figure onto a toteboard. 
 Cool. (into phone) Mr. Newburg? It's Miss Loretta, from Congressman Johnson's office, how you doin'? On Loretta's bulletin board is a map of the United States, with flags, pushpins, and air travel routes. 
 Say, the congressman's going to be out your way next week... Palm Springs, the Bob Hope Classic -- yes, a celebrity player. As long as he's on the coast, we were wondering whether you aerospace people might want to lay on a lunch so you can hear his views... Uh-huh ... Uh-huh... Lovely. Now what kind of contribution to his foundation you folks thinking about? 
 ...And in the 1988 study, it was up to eight per hundred-thousand. Um...am I losing you on these mortality rates? 
 No, I was just wondering how much of this is a statutory problem, and how much is a regulatory one? I mean, didn't the Merton Act cover most of this? 
 (surprised) Hmmm, that's an excellent point. Let me see something... As she starts rummaging in her briefcase, we TRACK AROUND to a COMPUTER SCREEN on Tommy's desk -- it displays THE EXACT WORDS HE'S JUST SPOKEN. 
 Wow...you're right. Maybe we can get them to amend Merton-Simmons. RACK FOCUS...reveals REINHARDT in b.g., sitting at another computer terminal. He is typing in Tommy's responses, which appear on Tommy's screen. 
 Well, for Merton to apply you have to show high contagion...sounds to me like your contagion rates are no higher than the common clod. In b.g., Reinhardt DIVES FORWARD to his keyboard and begins correcting his typo. Celia looks puzzled. 
 Common cold. (beat) Must have picked up a little dyslexia over the weekend. 
 I see. Well, I must say I'm pretty impressed. 
 You're also impressively pretty. (CONTINUED) 
 Oh come on... 
 You're right. Sorry.      Excuse me a second. (calls out) Arthur? Without explanation, he THROWS HIS PENCIL hard out of frame. 
 (O.S.) Ow! 98    EXT. GULF STREAM JET - AIRBORNE - DAY                     98 A jet flies through the sky. 99    INT. GULF STREAM JET - DAY                                99 Tommy and handful of other Members listen to their GUN LOBBYIST host. 
 Frankly, we    think the semi-automatic has gotten a    bad rap. That's why the American    Sporting Gun Users PAC put together    this trip. ON TOMMY AND DODGE enjoying champagne and hors d'oeuvres. 
 Must have had a heart attack. 
 I knew all these congressmen get a slice, but I didn't know it was that big. 
 Did you miss me? 102    INT. PRO BONO OFFICES - DAY                                   102 Celia at her desk in the somewhat ratty Pro Bono offices. 
 Where did you go? INTERCUT AND TOMMY 
 Oh, a fact-finding mission, some issue conferences, a few speaking engagements, a charity event... the usual. 
 More like the Petroleum Institute Ski Cup, the NRA Open, the -- 
 Hey.    Have lunch with me tomorrow. 
 I can't -- we're having a press conference. 
 What is it -- the ozone layer?     No fault? Killer apples? (CONTINUED) 
 (laughing) Toy safety. Wait a minute. Tomorrow's Friday. Aren't you back early? 
 (beaming) You remembered! That means you missed me. 103   EXT. JEFFERSON MEMORIAL - NIGHT                            103 Tommy and Celia walk over the bridge to the cherry trees by the Tidal Basin. 
 So, how'd you end up hustling for Pro Bono instead of pesticides? I mean, you could have been a big- time lawyer, right? 
 Oh, I was for a while.   It... depressed me. 
 At a hundred grand a year, how depressed can you get? Doesn't it depress you to lose all the time? 
 Sometimes. Mostly it gets me angry. And the anger keeps me going. Sure, I wouldn't mind winning a few. And it's not like I'm allergic to money... 
 So why do you do it? She skips a stone on the water. 
 God, it's so embarrassing to come out and say it. 
 Say it. 
 Meaning. I need my life to mean something. (CONTINUED) 
 My question is, how'd you get named after a Memorial? 
 Grandma like Jefferson. Y'know, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." It's a lot to live up to, so I specialized in the last part. 
 And how's the pursuit going? 
 Fine...'til I met you. Now...the better I do, the worse I feel. They have stopped walking.    They are standing close together. They kiss. 
 So...when can I see you again? How about dinner Saturday night? She shakes her head. 
 How about Sunday morning? 
 Brunch? 
 The wages of sin is death! And to the man who values Gold over Goodness...the Lord allows no exemptions! REVEAL TOMMY and Celia in the front pew. Marshall appears to be preaching directly to Tommy, who wears a slightly sick smile. 
 To the man who shows no respect for the privilege of walking this Earth, God allows no deductions! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 MARSHALL (CONT'D) 
 (AMEN) And to the man whose pockets are bulging and whose soul is empty... the Lord grants no 90-day extension! 
 (AMEN) And when the last trump sounds, believe me, you will be audited! 
 (aside to Celia) This is one hell of a date. 105   EXT. CHURCH - DAY                                          105 
 Hello, darling. Glad you could make it. 
 I liked the sermon, Uncle Eli. 
 Uncle Eli? 
 My niece says you're not half as slimy as I thought. 
 Your niece? 
 That would put you somewhere between a lizard and a toad. Quite a step up. Tommy looks from Marshall to Celia and back again. 
 How could I have missed the family resemblance? 106   EXT. CANNON BUILDING - DAY - ESTABLISHING                  106 107   INT. CANNON TOP FLOOR - DAY                                107 WHISTLING happily, Tommy rounds the corner and heads to his office. (CONTINUED) 
 Ladies! Looking good!   How can I help you folks today! But Hattie Rifkin and her troops will have none of it. 
 Don't "Ladies!" me, you dick! The camera lights go on. 
 Now let me get this straight. You voted to make people on Medicare pay more money to their doctors? 
 The Medical Association made a persuasive case. Ten grand from their PAC, plus Christmas in Aspen. 
 (shaking his head) Tommy -- if I'm not mistaken, you wouldn't be here without the good senior citizens of your district. You got to dance with the girl that brung you, son. If you have a bit of business to do, do it quietly... in the corridors... in the subcommittees... with little amendments. You mess around on the big ones like Medicare, you'll be dead meat on election day. 
 Yeah, well, then it's thanks for the memories, and on to the next gig. 
 Do you know what your problem is, son? You don't think big enough. You have a real knack for this town, but you have the soul of a two-bit hustler. Listen to me, Tommy. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DODGE (CONT'D) Five hundred thirty-five Members of Congress. Some are smart, and some stupid. Some good, some not. But all of them, son, all of them consumed by the single overriding imperative that defines the very Washington way of life. 
 Which is? 
 Getting re-elected. 
 Wait a minute. You're talkin' 'bout my re-election? 
 You don't know what percent of the incumbents who ran last time got re-elected, do you? 
 Fifty?   Sixty? 
 Ninety-six. And ninety-eight before that. It's like that election after election. If you don't fuck up, you can be here, raking it in, for life. Life, Johnson. Tommy considers this.   Then a big smile. 
 I can think of worse places to get life. 
 (smiles) I knew you had it in you. 
 So how do I get the Silver Foxes off my ass? 
 Oh, throw them a bone... why don't you co-sponsor a bill for mandatory universal health insurance? (CONTINUED) 
 What's that mean? 
 Nothing.   It'll never pass. 109   INT. TOMMY'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY                          109 A couple of Lobbyists await Tommy. Van Dyke mans the desk. In come ELLEN JUBA, 40s, and her 13-year-old daughter, MICKEY, whose pony tail sticks out from her Florida Marlins baseball cap. 
 May I help you? 
 MRS. JUBA Yes, I'm Ellen Juba. This is my daughter, Mickey. We'd like to see our congressman. We live in the district. 
 Just a moment, please. (dials; into phone) Could you come out? Thank you. (hanging up) Be right with you. (to Mickey) I like your hat. Loretta comes out and extends a hand. 
 How do you do, I'm Miss Loretta, public liaison for the congressman. 
 MRS. JUBA Ellen Juba. My daughter Mickey. We'd like to see him. 
 Y'all from the district? Up    here seein' the sights? How'd you    folks like some gallery passes? Go    on over and listen to the great   debates of our day? She reaches into Van Dyke's desk drawer to get some passes. 
 We don't want to go to the gallery. We want to see Congressman Johnson. (CONTINUED) 
 How 'bout a House key ring for each of you? Here -- see that? Isn't that something? Turns into a pen. 
 MRS. JUBA You don't understand. We're not tourists. We're constitutents. 
 (helpfully) You aren't with some organization, are you, honey? 
 MRS. JUBA I'm a goddam citizen! Isn't that enough! 
 We're not leaving here till we see him! Loretta exchanges a look with the Lobbyists, who get the picture. She picks up the phone and speaks nonchalantly. 
 Oh, Armando? Could you come out front, please? Tommy enters, carrying an enormous tennis trophy. 
 Look what I won! Must be that new racket. Armando has come out to hear this. 
 There a problem, congressman? 
 MRS. JUBA Congressman?   You? Armando tries to escort her out. 
 MRS. JUBA Get your hands off me! Mickey tries to block Armando. 
 Let go of her, you creep! (CONTINUED) 
 Careful, she may be armed! 
 Stop it!     Get away from her! Armando, defending himself from Mickey, manages to knock her hat off. With the hat comes her (apparently false) pony tail. ON.   She's bald.    Her skull bears the mark of surgery. Everyone stops.    It's quiet. Mickey's eyes burn into Tommy's.        Then she picks up her hat. 
 Come on, Ma.      It's okay.    Let's go. 
 Wait.     What happened to you? 
 Not just me. 110   INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE - DAY                                       110 Tommy and his staff listen to the Jubas. 
 I was lucky. They said they got it all. I'm going to be okay. But what about the others? 
 The others? 
 MRS. JUBA They call it a "cancer cluster." Oh, at first, none of us in the neighborhood wanted to believe it, but then we all saw it -- for me, it was when the two-year-old across the street developed a brain tumor, same as Mickey. We looked at everything -- the water, the air, dump sites, insects, you name it. But we didn't have to look that far. It was staring us in the face. 
 What? (CONTINUED) 
 Power lines. 
 MRS. JUBA High-voltage power lines. The wires cause magnetic fields -- and the magnetic fields cause cancer. Especially in children. 
 I never heard of that. Mickey pulls a stack of journals and xeroxes from her book bag and gives it to her mother, who in turn gives the materials to Tommy. 
 MRS. JUBA The studies, the numbers -- it's all there. 
 (to Tommy, skeptical) You're not actually going to read those, are you? 
 (caught) Oh, they'll be read... 
 Why don't you come see for yourself? Tommy has no quick answer. 111   EXT. PARK/SCHOOL - FLORIDA - DAY                           111 
 MRS. JUBA Five children   in the neighborhood have cancer.    One more has precancerous   lesions. Pregnant women around   here are scared to death. (CONTINUED) 
 This is Mickey's school? 
 MRS. JUBA Turns out a lot of schools are near power lines. The land's cheap, so the schools tend to buy it from the power companies in the first place. 
 But isn't the school district responsible? 
 MRS. JUBA We asked the superintendent to measure the magnetic field inside the school. He said, Okay, only it'll cost forty thousand dollars, and what program did we want him to cut that from? 
 Nice. 
 MRS. JUBA We're nobody, congressman. You're somebody. We need your help. Tommy takes Celia aside. 
 Do you believe it? 
 It's impossible to know. No one's really looked into it hard enough. 
 But why isn't it being investigated? 
 Why didn't they investigate breast implants all those years? What about those side-effects of that sleeping pill, Halcion? Why isn't anything being investigated? It's always the same. 
 Money talks. 
 You got it. (CONTINUED) 
 There must be something I can do for those people. 
 Don't tell me you're actually developing a conscience. 
 Shit, I hope not -- it'd be a fucking nuisance in Congress. 
 No, that's not fair. Some people on the Hill actually believe in things, and try to do a decent job, and don't forget why they went to Washington, and who sent them. 
 (amazed) No shit. (remembering) Oh, yeah, I met one of those geeks. So what can I do? 
 Make a stink. Round up some Members and hold a press conference. Get that committee of yours to hold hearings. Haul in in the Environmental Protection Agency, the Surgeon General, the National Academy of Sciences. Get the issue on every breakfast table in America. 
 This goes beyond personal tragedy. It goes to a public health hazard of unknown proportions. It goes to the right of ordinary people to know all the facts -- (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah, right -- people ought to know if their neighborhoods are killing them. 
 (O.S.) Amen, gentleman. Amen. They turn, somewhat surprised to see Dick Dodge, who joins Iowa at the microphones, a natural leader. 
 What a fine effort this is. I am totally sympathetic. Congressional hearings should be scheduled as soon as possible. The American people deserve no less. He puts an arm around Mickey. 
 Message:   we care. 112B   INT. TOMMY'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                   112B Tommy and Celia are watching the press conference on TV. 
 Well, congratulations. You've found yourself your own hopeless cause. 
 Speaking of hopeless causes... They kiss, and slide OUT OF FRAME. 
 (pouring) On the rocks, or neat? 
 Whatever you're having. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, why ruin good bourbon with the taste of some shitty Sears icemaker, that's what I always say. (handing Tommy a glass) Cheers. 
 Cheers. Dodge downs his drink.   Tommy follows suit. 
 Son, you're a real comer. I wouldn't be surprised if you ended up in the leadership. I'll say this: if I were Speaker, I'd sleep better with you as a lieutenant. 
 Why, thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, to tell you the truth, I didn't know you'd be on my side on those power lines. 
 But I'm not. 
 But you said you were sympathetic -- 
 Of course I did. We're all sympathetic to little girls with cancer. But I'm not sympathetic to holding an inquiry. 
 But you said -- 
 I know what I said. But that was just a press conference, son. I wasn't under oath. The intercom BUZZES. 
 (into phone) Yes?... Bring them right in! (hanging up) Look. Son. It's great to get your name in the paper. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DODGE (CONT'D) I bet the gentleman from Iowa was all over the evening news in Des Moines tonight. Getting good press -- letting them know you care -- that's what it's all about. Smart move, Tommy. But that's as far as I'd go with this, if I were you. The door opens. Dodge turns to see Olaf Anderson, Tommy O'Connor, and Zeke Bridges enter. 
 What a surprise! 
 Mr. Chairman! 
 Mr. Chairman! Hello, Tommy. Zeke you're looking well, good to see you. 
 (wheezing) Good to see you, you old sum' bitch. 
 O'CONNOR Evening, Mr. Chairman, thanks for taking the -- Tommy, you s.o.b., they let you in here? (indicating Andersen and Bridges) You folks finally get to press flesh! Olaf, meet Tommy Johnson. Tommy, Olaf Andersen. Chairman of Gulf Coast Power. 
 The boys here have told me a lot about you. 
 O'CONNOR Yeah -- I told him you voted for him! They all share a laugh.    Except for Bridges, who squints at Tommy. 
 Glad to meet you, son. They tell me you've got a real talent for the game. (CONTINUED) 
 O'CONNOR And this is Zeke Bridges, CEO of Pyramid Insurance. 
 (still puzzling) Congressman. 
 Good to meet you. 
 Help me with these, would you, Tommy? 
 (to Zeke) Chivas on the rocks? 
 (taking the drink) You look awfully familiar. Tommy just smiles. 
 Tommy and I were just talking about power lines. 
 Yeah, what a coincidence. I thought this little party might be for me. (to Anderson) You may not like this. (to Dodge) I think we should hold those hearings. 
 You really fell for the line that parents group fed you, didn't you? Tommy is struck by Dodge's intelligence. 
 How'd you know I met the parents group? (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, I keep my ear to the ground, that's what a good politician does. Listen, Tommy, why don't we just get Olaf's take on this. 
 It's tragic, cancer's a terrible thing, but there's no way you can link it to power lines. Truth is, there's a bigger electromagnetic field given off by an electric blanket, or a microwave oven, than by those derricks. 
 But there are studies that say -- 
 For every study that says one thing, I'll show you a study saying another. We've studied it ourselves. Nada. 
 There's not a single state health official anywhere in this country who says power lines cause cancer. 
 But what if you're wrong? As Tommy persists, Andersen looks increasingly angry. 
 People didn't use to say smoking causes cancer, either. What if the evidence is just building, and some day we wake up and discover that your power lines are killing us? 
 (exploding) "Kill  us"? "Kill us"? You calling me a  murderer? You're saying there's blood  on these hands? How dare you talk  to me like that, you -- O'Connor puts a restraining arm on Andersen. 
 O'CONNOR Calm down, Olaf, calm down, he didn't mean it that way, did you, son? Alright, gentlemen. Easy. (CONTINUED) 
 Tommy -- do you want to move the power lines? Do you know how much it would cost to bury them? Millions. Tens of millions. I don't have that money. The state doesn't have that money. You people up here sure don't have that money. You know who'd end up paying for it? Folks who sent you here, that's who. 
 O'CONNOR Now how'd you like the   people in your district to think   of you as the putz who tripled their   electric bill? You think they'd thank   you for that on election day? 
 All I'm saying is, maybe we should hold hearings to look at -- 
 O'CONNOR Think for a minute, boychik. You hold your hearings. Overnight, everyone who lives near a substation finds the value of his home in the toilet. You kill the real estate market. 
 You kill the insurance companies. 
 O'CONNOR You kill the school district. 
 You kill the local economy. 
 For a smart boy, you're not thinking very politically. Tommy watches the LIGHTNING. 
 Maybe I should think about it. (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah, the system ain't perfect, but the fleas come with the dawg. 
 Oh, by the    way, Tommy, on a completely different    subject -- You don't have a state PAC    yet, do you? I'd like to give you a    hundred thousand dollar corporate    contribution to start one up. 
 My company would be honored to do the same. 
 Can you do that?     I thought there were limits -- 
 O'CONNOR Oh, it's all aboveboard, we all believe deeply in the rules. It's just that the state rules are often more flexible about these things. 
 Are you interested? 
 I'm always interested in the happiness of my constituents. 
 I'll drink to that. 
 Mmmm... (CONTINUED) 
 Mmmm... 
 So what did he say? 
 Who? 
 Dodge.    The hearings. 
 Oh -- I, uh, haven't asked him yet. 
 (casual) It wasn't the right moment. Besides, I was thinking, maybe I ought to line up some other Members first -- you know, get my ducks in a row. 
 Oh. 120   INT. HOUSE STEAM ROOM - DAY                                120 Dick Dodge and several other towel-clad MEMBERS. 
 You see that ABC poll? 
 Free fall. 
 President in trouble like that, he's liable to do something desperate. Some damn fool stunt. 
 Invade Japan. 
 Declare war on Congress, more like it. (CONTINUED) 
 You shafted me on the ethics bill. (CONTINUED) 
 Hello, Eli, good to see you.   Why don't you loosen your tie? 
 It's a closed rule. I can't get my amendments on the floor. I can't get a recorded vote. I can't get squat. 
 Last time I looked, it was the Rules Committee in charge of that. This isn't the Rules Committee, Eli. This is the steam room. 
 This is the U.S. Congress! The American people deserve better than -- 
 You know what your problem is, Eli? You've got sermonitis. The other Members chuckle. 
 Can't open your mouth without climbing into the pulpit, can you? Why don't you just calm down, have a massage -- 
 I've got news for you, Dick. I'm going to run against you for Speaker. I may not have a rat's ass of a chance to beat you. But I sure as hell can tell the world the kind of sleaze you stand for. 121   EXT. CAPITOL TERRACE - DAY - TOMMY AND DODGE               121 
 I went too far with him, I know it. You know him pretty well, don't you? 
 Oh, I don't know... 
 Come on, you play basketball together, you're seeing his niece, you've been to his church -- 
 How did you know that? (CONTINUED) 
 He'll listen to you, Tommy. I want you to go make peace between us. Tell him we'll work something out on his amendments -- not a vote, I won't go that far, but at least he'll get to say his piece on the floor. Just get him off my back. Can you do that for me? 
 That's not a question, is it? 
 That's right.     Is there a problem? 
 No, no -- I've still got my right nut, I can work with that. 122   INT. CRAB HOUSE - NIGHT                                     122 A WAITER removes an empty pitcher of beer. 
 Another? 
 Sure, why not. Marshall takes a boiled crab from the platter between them, places it on the butcher paper in front of him, christens it -- 
 The honorable Dick Dodge. -- raises a big wooden mallet, and SMASHES it on the crab, smiling. 
 You know, Eli, sometimes people do things they regret. Everyone makes mistakes. Fact is, Dick's been under a lot of pressure lately -- 
 That man's a walking quid quo pro -- prid quo -- quid pro quo, and you know it. He put you up to this, didn't he? (CONTINUED) 
 What do you mean? 
 Don't shit me, Tommy. You're Dick Dodge's yes-man. I know what you're up to. This is damage control. 
 I'm not a yes-man. When Dick says no, I say no. Marshall SMASHES down again with the mallet.    Crab carnage. 
 You know why no one on the Hill drops a dime on anyone else? Mutual assured destruction. Our little gentleman's agreement. Everybody has something on somebody, so nobody has anything on anybody, because everybody wants to save his own ass. 
 (interested) Oh, yeah? What do they have on you? 
 They think I'm a pompous ass. 
 Shit, that ain't no secret. 123   EXT. CRAB HOUSE - NIGHT                                     123 
 You sure they don't want to be alone, Reinhardt? 
 No, no -- I bet they've been talking about the ethics bill all night. Come on, Loretta, you'll know how to get Marshall's mind off business. 124   INT. CRAB HOUSE - NIGHT - ON MARSHALL AND TOMMY             124 
 Shit, this place isn't about passing laws any more. It isn't about doing good any more. All it's about is... being here. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, as I live and breathe.   Tommy! Tommy is surprised to see them.   She flashes a smile at Marshall. 
 Eli, this is Loretta Hicks, from my staff. Loretta, Congressman Marshall. 
 Pleasure to meet you. 
 Entirely mine. 
 You know Reinhardt, my AA? Marshall nods.   Reinhardt turns to Tommy. 
 Excuse me, congressman, could I just do a couple of quick calendar things with you? 
 (to Loretta) Would you care for a drink? 
 Tell you the truth, nothing for me. 
 Well, when a pretty lady shoots him down, an old man knows it's time to go home. Marshall rises, pulling out his car keys. 
 You kids have a good time. 
 (indicating pitcher) Listen, you gentlemen look like you've had a few -- Loretta, why don't you be a designated driver? Loretta stands and takes Marshall's keys from him. (CONTINUED) 
 Excellent idea. 
 Ah.    The good Samaritan. 
 Good night, y'all. They leave. 
 Now we've already got the Bankruptcy Institute breakfast tomorrow, but if you don't mind we could wedge in the Prune Board -- This isn't what Tommy wants to be doing now.    He gets up. 
 I'm packing it in. 
 (also rising) Can we talk while I drive you? 
 Thanks, I'll walk. I could use the air. 125   INT. MARSHALL'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT                        125 Marshall and Loretta are singing. MARSHALL and LORETTA "Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me -- " 126   EXT. CAPITOL HILL STREET - NIGHT                            126 Tommy is on foot. Marshall's car, with its Maryland congressional plates, pulls over. 
 Come on, honey, no use you getting mugged. 127   INT. MARSHALL'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT                        127 MARSHALL and "I once was lost, but now am found; was blind, but now I see... " Tommy, in the back, cradles his head.   As Loretta heads into a traffic circle, she SEES 
 (turning to look) Check out the fuck-me pumps on that. Mm-mm. I gotta get me some shoes like that. 
 Loretta!   Please! Your mouth! 130   EXT. TRAFFIC CIRCLE - NIGHT                                 130 
 I need an ambulance right away. 
 Evening, Mrs. Dodge, Tommy Johnson here, sorry to call at this hour, is Dick back from the Gridiron dinner yet? Could I speak with him for just a moment? 133   INT. DODGE BEDROOM - NIGHT                                  133 MRS. DODGE is in bed. She hands the phone to Dodge, who's in white tie and tails, looking more sinister than splendid. 
 MRS. DODGE Tommy Johnson. (CONTINUED) 
 (into phone) What's wrong? INTERCUT Tommy and Dodge. 
 How did you know? 
 Good news doesn't come at this hour. 
 I went out with Marshall. We got into an accident. He's out cold. I'm okay. 
 Were you driving? 
 No.   Someone else. Loretta. Dodge recovers his equilibrium. 
 The girl from your office? 
 Yeah. She's out, too. I don't like the way it looks. For anybody. Look. You said you wanted to get back into Marshall's good graces. Well, here's an opportunity. 
 Listen carefully. Tell the ambulance to take you to Walter Reed. It's a privilege they give congressmen. It's also the only hospital without a bunch of goddam reporters shtupping the nurses in exchange for leaks. They'll keep it quiet. I'll handle the police. You go home and keep your mouth shut. 134   INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT                                134 Two figures approach one another in the shadows: Reinhardt, and the Taxi Driver who rear-ended Marshall's car. The cabbie nods.   Reinhardt hands him an envelope. The Driver inspects the cash. 
 (V.O.) ... and the Beltway is bumper-to bumper, so you might as well take a day of annual leave and enjoy yourself. At the top of the news, Maryland Congressman Elijah Marshall is in satisfactory condition at Walter Reed Hospital after an overnight accident in the District. Tommy bolts into the bedroom.    On the television he sees 
 That's right, Tom. Marshall reportedly had alcohol in his blood. Also slightly injured was an unidentified woman whom police say has a record in several states for prostitution. Tommy looks sick. 
 Oh sweet Jesus. 
 Linda, Congressman Marshall -- that's Reverend Marshall, isn't it? 
 Right you are, Tom. How this plays into his longstanding campaign to reform congressinoal ethics is now anyone's guess. 
 Thank you.   In other news... Tommy leaps for his clothes. 137   INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY                                 137 Tommy races down the corridor.   Ahead of him, Celia, coming out of Marshall's room.   She freezes at the sight of him. (CONTINUED) 
 Get away from him. He approaches her. 
 And get away from me. 
 I have to talk to you. 
 Go away! 
 I was set up! 
 You were set up? You were in the car! I didn't hear your name on the news! 
 No, someone screwed him -- 
 "Someone"? 
 Celia, something stinks here -- 
 Yeah -- it's you! You don't give a damn about anything! And to think, the other night, I actually thought you cared about someone else. 
 Not me, you jerk -- Mickey Juba! You caved on those power lines, didn't you? I knew it. Damn it, I knew it! What did you get for it? Tommy O'Connor's box at the Redskins? Someone slip you a condo in the Virgin Islands? 
 If you'd give me a chance to -- (CONTINUED) 
 God, I hate this town -- the only reason I stay is because I hate it so much. 
 Celia -- 
 Get the hell out of here. 138   EXT. FLORIDA PARK - DAY - LONG SHOT - TOMMY AND               138 
 sitting on the ground, backs to us, beneath the power lines. A quiet moment. REVERSE ANGLE - TWO SHOT.   Mickey is shuffling a deck of cards. 
 Is it thumb over, or thumb under? 
 Under. She tries her hand at a false shuffle. 
 Not bad, kid.    You've got potential. 
 So what's happening? I thought you were going to kick some ass on -- She indicates the derricks.      Tommy looks at her, comes to a decision. 
 I am. He takes the deck from her, fans it face up, pulls all the kings and aces, stacks them on top, and squares the deck. 
 This is one's called the double duke. How many players? 
 Six. 
 Who's the mark? (CONTINUED) 
 Number two -- over there. Tommy, smiling, calculates something for a moment, then gives the deck four shuffles. He hands Mickey the cards. 
 Your deal. She deals out six hands in a circle on the ground. 
 Look at the sucker's hand. 
 Look at your hand. She turns over her own hand. It has the four aces. Mickey looks at the power lines, at the hands, at TJ. Then, understanding: 
 That's what you're going to do? Tommy nods.   Her face opens into a big smile. 
 Let's kick some ass.    What do I do? 
 Something very important. 
 Why are we meeting here, Tommy? There trouble at the office? 
 (impersonating Dodge) "I keep my ear close to the ground." His ear my ass. He had an inside man. 
 That little fuck Reinhardt? (CONTINUED) 
 Hot damn -- I knew my driving wasn't that bad. Speaking of which -- you think I should wear one of those whiplash things, Tommy? There some insurance angle I should be working here? 
 We got bigger fish to fry, darlin'. 
 What do we do? 
 (beat) The big con. 
 We gonna git that sucker. 
 Dick always said I should think big. 
 Whoa! Aren't we gettin' out of our league, man? That Dodge is a pro! 
 You can't con a con, Congressman. 
 Shit, that's right, Tommy -- these politicians are serious slick fish. 
 You people gone soft on me? Bunch of fuckin' incumbents I got here. Now listen up. Thursday morning Dodge has a breakfast with the Arts Caucus in the Longworth Room. Armando -- find out how fast I can get from Longworth to my office. Loretta -- we need some scoop from the EPA for the roper, I'll give you a list. Van Dyke -- call Hattie at the Silver Foxes, and -- 
 Wait a minute -- we need a new roper, don't we? Everyone around here knows our faces. Outside a HORN sounds (O.S.).    Tommy looks at his watch. (CONTINUED) 
 Right on the nose. He throws open the bay window of the narrow house. Just below is a pickup truck with "Homer's Pit Stop" lettered on the side. Homer gets out. 
 My man! The others come to the window to see Homer, still wearing his fuel-smeared overalls, and SHOUT greetings. 
 Now let's get to work. 
 Eli Marshall caught his tail in a crack, didn't he? 
 He did. 
 You kept my name out of it. 
 I did. 
 I owe you one. 
 (pleased) You learn fast. 
 Do me one favor, Dick. Next time you pull some heavy shit involving my ass, tip me off, okay? 
 (indulgent chuckle) Alright, son. (BANGS gavel) This hearing of the Power and Enterprise Committee is now in order. The health of America's securities industry -- (CONTINUED) 
 (whispering) Thanks. Listen, Reinhardt, something's come up, and I don't quite know how to handle it. There's a guy from the EPA -- I don't know him -- says he wants to see me. Tonight. Out of the office. Alone, he says. Sound of it makes me nervous. I'd feel better if you were there. 
 You got it, jefe. 141   EXT. GRANT'S STATUE - NIGHT                                  141 A man waits, alone, in the shadow of a large statue. It's Homer. In a jacket and tie, his stubble shaved off, he looks like a plausible government worker. Tommy and Reinhardt approach. 
 Mr. Yancey? 
 (cold) I thought you'd be alone. 
 He's my AA. He goes where I go. If you can trust me, you can trust him. Homer eyes Reinhardt a moment, then continues. 
 Congressman, I have information I think you may want. It's about something going on at the EPA. 
 What have you got? 
 I got a wife and three kids, and a note on my house, that's what I got. (CONTINUED) 
 (laughs) Nothin' comes for nothin' in this town, do it? (to Reinhardt) You got any cash on you? I'm kind of light. 
 (whispering) You can't do that! 
 (to Homer) This stuff's pretty good? 
 In the right hands, it could mean a great deal. 
 Okay. Sunday. Fifth race at Del Mar. Blueboy is running twenty to one. I'd take a major position. 
 You have to be shitting me. 
 No, not at all -- my Cousin Henry spends his days pumping water into horses' stomachs and stuffing Percodan up their butts. Trust me. Reinhardt is interested in this.   And he admires Tommy's m.o. 
 (after a moment) Alright. The White House is putting heat on the EPA. They want us to announce a major investigation of the relation between power lines and cancer clusters. 
 But didn't the EPA already do a study? 
 Yeah, but when the draft got to the White House, they didn't like it. So they brought their own scientists in to kill it. (CONTINUED) 
 Why did the White House change its mind? 
 Who knows? 
 Is there new evidence? 
 Yeah -- their polls have dropped like a rock. They need an issue. This one makes them look good on the environment, and they don't have to spend a penny. 
 And what good is this to me? 
 Come on, congressman, in this town, information is currency. And advance information is gold. Reinhardt nods in agreement. 
 But you've    got to move fast. Once the White    House goes public with this, they    can't turn back. If your friends at    the power company want to kill this    investigation, they'd better do it now.     Evening, gentlemen. 
 Blueboy. Twenty to one. Is your Cousin Henry always right? 
 I ain't got no Cousin Henry. 142   EXT. PAY PHONE - BY REFLECTING POOL - NIGHT                142 Reinhardt dials. MRS. DODGE'S VOICE (V.O.) Hello? (CONTINUED) 
 Mrs. Dodge, it's Arthur Reinhardt. May I speak to the Chairman, please? 
 (V.O.) Hello? 
 Are you sitting down? 143   INT. ART CAUCUS ROOM - DAY                                 143 The Longworth Room, a small circular committee room with an ornate rotunda. The Arts Caucus breakfast is ending. 
 Unless there is further business, our caucus stands adjourned. Dodge gets up.    As he makes to leave, Tommy comes in. 
 Got a minute, Dick? Tommy takes him aside.    The room empties except for them. 
 Listen, Dick, I heard something. There's got to be some bid'ness in it. Tommy very discreetly gestures with his thumb and palm: money. 
 Maybe we can go in on it together. 
 I'm listening. 
 The EPA is going to make a stink about power lines. The White House is pushing them to do a big study. 
 That's very interesting, my friend. I've heard that, too. 
 (acting surprised) Nothing gets by, do it? Tommy touches his nose, in tribute to the master. (CONTINUED) 
 But thank you, son -- I'm glad you chose to share it with me. We do make quite a team, don't we? 
 I -- I hope it wasn't my press conference that started this. 
 No, this is a stunt for the polls. 
 So do you think there's something in it for us? 
 (musing) If we got the EPA off Olaf Andersen's back, he'd be extremely appreciative. 
 And how do we do that? 
 My committee writes the EPA's programs. We audit their funds. We confirm their appointees. I've got them by the balls. 
 And you're going to -- ? Tommy makes a squeezing gesture, grins. 
 Oh, no, not at all -- just... persuasion. Strenuous persuasion. 
 That's allowed? 
 Persuasion, yes. Intimidation, no. But it's a gray area. Who's to say which is which? 
 Dick, wait a minute -- shouldn't we check out the tip? Make sure the EPA's really going through with this investigation? (CONTINUED) 
 Of course. (looks at watch) He should be in by now. 
 Who? 
 Skeeter Warburton, of course. Always go right to the top, son. 144   INT.'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY                         144 Dodge passes his Secretary's desk on the way into his office. 
 Get me the EPA Administrator, please. 145   INT. CORRIDOR/STAIRWELL - CANNON - DAY                    145 Tommy jogs along the corridor. A tourist Family stares at him. He explains his haste with a smile -- 
 There's a vote on the floor. -- and ducks into the stairwell. 146   INT. CATACOMBS - PHONE CABLE ROOM - DAY                   146 In a chamber crammed with cables, the Telephone Man listens to a handset. He now sports a gold Rolex on his wrist -- his horse must have come in. Van Dyke, also there, looks at any array of dials and meters, whose hands all suddenly move. Some electronic phone CHIRPS, then the filtered RINGING of a call. 
 Here he comes. The Telephone Man nods, adjusts some wiring, smiles satisfiedly. 
 And there he goes. 147   INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE                                       147 Loretta wears a beaded sling, which adds to her look. She is at Tommy's desk, watching his phone as it RINGS. Tommy comes in. (CONTINUED) 
 The Administrator. Loretta picks up the phone. 
 Office of the Adminstrator. (listens) Thank you, I'll put you right through. She hands the phone to Tommy, who mimics the George Plimpton voice. 
 Warbuton here. (listens) Thank you. (waits) Mr. Chairman! I do hope there's something I can help you with today. 148   INT. DODGE'S OFFICE - DAY                                148 
 I need a straight answer from you, Skeeter. Is the White House on your ass about power lines? 
 Off the record? 
 Of course. 
 I was looking forward to some serious sailing this week -- Tish and I have a lovely spot right by Kennebunkport. Instead, here I am at three in the morning, writing testimony to your committee about cancer clusters. 
 Thanks for your candor, Warburton. 
 Not at all. You must come sailing with us. Cheers. Bye-bye. Tommy passes the phone back to Loretta. 
 Next. 
 Yes? 
 (V.O.) Zeke Bridges on line two. Andersen punches the button to connect the call. 150   INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE - DAY                                 150 
 I'll just put you through to him. She passes the phone to Tommy. 
 Olaf? (coughs) Olaf, Zeke Bridges. Listen, you sum' bitch, I'm so mad, I can't sit down to shit. Have you heard what I heard? (wheezes) INTERCUT with Andersen. 
 What's that. 
 The EPA's fixing to make a big stink about power lines and cancer. They're going to serve us up for breakfast. 
 Wait a minute. There's no scientific proof -- 
 Proof don't mean shit. We're talking politics. They make a federal case out of power lines, I'm screwed. Whole insurance business is screwed. You know how much cash I'd have to pay out in settlements? Even if I stiffed everybody on claims, the legal fees'd be enough to kill me. 
 I can't believe it. (CONTINUED) 
 You better believe it. You're screwed, too. Every hot dog trial lawyer in America soon be lining up to sue both our asses. We got to move on this, Olaf. If I wasn't tied up here, I'd go to Washington myself. Shouldn't you be getting on a plane? Just between us -- you find a way to stop this, I'll find a million bucks if I have to. 151   INT. CORPORATE JET - DAY                                  151 A very worried Andersen. 
 Olaf will be at my office at five o'clock. 
 How do we play it? 
 Cool. Real cool. You just follow my lead. 153   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY -, TOMMY, ANDERSEN,       153 
 O'CONNOR 
 I don't know how I can help you on this one, Olaf. This is the EPA. This is the President. 
 This is my lifeblood! 
 I see that, Olaf, I see that. But in this town, you pick your fights. 
 This could mean six figures, Dick. Dodge says nothing, but makes his eyebrows fly. 
 High six figures. Dodge flicks his eyebrows again:   More. (CONTINUED) 
 Seven figures? 
 Between us. It's not that much -- what can you get for half a million these days? 
 How the hell can I funnel that kind of money to you? 
 O'CONNOR If that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. No one will see your fingerprints. 
 No one will know? 
 No one will know. 
 O'CONNOR You're only in trouble if someone can prove a connection. 
 Of course there's no connection. Olaf's just making a contribution as a patriotic citizen. And in return for it, he's getting -- 
 Good government. 
 Exactly.   A little access, that's all. 154   INT. ORNATE CAPITOL HALLWAY - DAY                         154 Dodge, Andersen, Tommy, and O'Connor walking along. Up ahead, a cocktail reception. On an easel by the door: HAZARDOUS WASTE ASSOCIATION MEET YOUR REPRESENTATIVE NIGHT. 
 I've got to do a drop-by. You gentlemen like to join me for a drink? 155   INT. ORNATE FUNCTION ROOM - DAY                           155 Dodge and Tommy work the room genially. Tommy spots Celia talking to some Guests and goes over to her. (CONTINUED) 
 Hi. 
 (to Guests, smiling) Excuse me. She turns, starts to walk away.   Tommy stops her. 
 Look. Whatever you think of me, just promise me one thing. She glares at him angrily.   But then she's surprised to hear: 
 Come to the Clean Air hearing tomorrow. 
 (baffled) What? 
 Power and Enterprise.    Noon. 
 But why? He gives her an enigmatic smile and slips away. As he rejoins Dodge, Tommy SEES WARBURTON enter the room. Alarmed, TOmmy moves in on Dodge, steering him to avoid the EPA Administrator. 
 Shouldn't we be heading off, Dick? 
 Let's work the room just a bit more. 
 (O.S.) Congressman!   Mr. Chairman! As Dodge turns to see him -- 
 Evening, Reinhardt. -- he SEES Warburton. (CONTINUED) 
   (O.S.) Good to see you, sir.    By the way, I thought your opening   statement in committee yesterday was   brilliant. Dodge points out Warburton to Tommy. 
 Well. Look who's over there -- Skeeter Warburton from the EPA. The very man we want to see. 
 (trying to turn him) Have you tried the oysters, Dick? 
 At a hazardous waste event? (shakes head) I think we'll go talk to him. 
 No, he's the wrong man -- 
 (bemused by Tommy) You don't understand -- he's the perfect man. 
 But -- but you don't want to bother him with this. Talk to one of his underlings -- Dodge looks at Tommy with curiosity, not understanding his reluctance. 
 Nothing beats man-to-man. 
 Here?     Not here! 
 A public place. What could be better? 
 But it's the wrong time! 
 While the iron is hot, son. (CONTINUED) 
 (chiming in helpfully) No time like the present. 
 Shut up, Reinhardt, I'm talking to the Chairman. Beat it, okay? 
 (smiling to Dodge) I'll go get him. Reinhardt heads for Warburton. 
 (puts hand on abdomen) You heard about this stomach thing going around? 
 Come on, son, we've got the people's business to do. He leads Tommy off to one side.      Reinhardt brings Warburton to them. 
 Mr. Chairman.    Congressman. 
 I've got a big problem, Skeeter. 
 What's that? 
 Your power lines investigation. 
 What power lines investigation? Tommy is sweating bullets. 
 We're off the record, Skeeter. This witch-hunt for cancer clusters is bad news for everyone. 
 I don't know what you're talking about, Dick. (CONTINUED) 
 Alright, I know you're being a good soldier -- 
 No, I'm being straight with you -- 
 Then let me be straight with you. You announce this study -- I'm not talking about the results down the road, mind you, I'm just talking about the announcement -- and there's broken crockery everywhere. Real estate. Utilities. Insurance. Schools. Local governments. It'll cost jobs. Uproot families. 
 I agree with you completely. There isn't going to be an investigation, old chap, I promise you. 
 (beat) I'm glad we understand each other. 
 (beat) Yes, I think we do. Tommy silently rejoices in his good fortune. 
 And we'll just forget about that phone call this morning? 
 We didn't speak on the phone. 
 (vastly impressed) Excellent. Dodge claps him on the shoulder, then heads off with Tommy, who is delighted to have dodged a bullet. 
 (imitating Warburton) "There isn't going to be an investigation, old chap." 
 (chuckling) You're bad. (CONTINUED) 
 (sotto voce) Worked like a charm. We scared him shitless. The investigation's dead. 
 Waiter! Champagne! (to Dodge) See you at the Clear Air hearings. 156   INT. TOMMY'S RECEPTION AREA/CORRIDOR - DAY              156 As Reinhardt comes into the office, Tommy intercepts him. 
 Morning, Reinhardt! Got a minute? I need your advice on something. 
 Sure. Tommy leads him back into the corridor. 157   INT. TOMMY'S BOILER ROOM - DAY                          157 Van Dyke, Armando, and Loretta work the phones. 
 Is this the assignment desk? Yes, I'm calling from Chairman Dodge's office, on the Hill. We wanted to be sure CNN was sending a crew to the Clean Air hearing today. 
 ARMANDO (OVERLAPPING) No, not the new emission standards. We're breaking news. This is the biggest thing since Watergate. 
 LORETTA (OVERLAPPING) This is Cynthia Leeson in the White House Press Office. My boss wanted me to let you folks know -- we're making a major announcement at the Clean Air hearings today. (listens) No, I can't tell you, but it's hot. (listens) Well, if the New York Times wants to be the only paper in town to miss the story of the year, that's up to y'all. 
 I want to do a little    something nice for Dodge. That     EPA thing -- he's been good to me,    Reinhardt. Is there some way I can,    like, throw a bouquet to him at the    hearing today without having to sit    through that boring testimony    shit? 
 Why don't you ask him to give you the floor at the start? 
 He's do that? 
 For some flattery? In a New York minute. Just tip him ahead of time. 
 Good thinking. They return to the corridor.     Tommy looks at his watch. 
 Say, Reinhardt, my Grandma's plane comes in at ten. You wouldn't mind picking her up and driving Miss Daisy around, would you? 
 Can't one of the others do it? 
 No, I don't trust them the way I trust you. pats him on the back and sends him on his way. 159   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY                                    159 Tommy, joined by his cronies and the Jubas. 
 This is it, people.     Game time.   Let's get it right. 
 Tell me one thing, jefe. How do you know Andersen is going to bite? 
 I don't.   You run a con, you run a risk. 
 #1 You know what this is? 
 #2 (confidential) It's very hot. Electric cars. CELIA is seated with Ira, her Pro Bono associate. 
 I'm cutting out early. 
 (indicating TJ) Don't want to run into him? 
 You got that right. AT THE DAIS Tommy has a private word with Dodge. 
 Dick, I thought it might be a nice way to open if I congratulated you on the fine work you been doin' on this committee. Really express our appreciation. Especially on behalf of the minority community. 
 Why, thank you, son. (CONTINUED) 
 (indicating cameras) Wouldn't hurt to have tape like that in the bank, would it, Mr. Speaker? HOMER slips in next to Reinhardt, who is surprised to see him. 
 Mr. Yancey? Arthur Reinhardt.      Are you testifying for the agency? 
 (leaning over) Hello, Homer, dear. 
 No, Mrs. Johnson, you must be mistaken -- let me introduce you. This is Mr. Yancey of the EPA. 
 (to Reinhardt) Don't be silly, child. 
 Homer Norton. Homer's Pit Stop, Axahatchee, Florida. 
 Homer's known Tommy since they were in diapers. 
 (getting up) What the -- ? 
 Move and you're history. DODGE GAVELS the meeting to order. 
 This meeting of the Power and Enterprise Committee to consider the reauthorization of the Clean Air Act is now in session. Today's first business is a panel of national leaders in the field of utilities. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 DODGE (CONT'D) Before I welcome them, Chair would like to yield to the gentleman from Florida for a word. If there is no objection from the Committee -- ? The gentleman may proceed. 
 Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the other members of this committee, and on behalf of myself, I have a very personal statement to make. From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank you -- thank you for your leadership, for your insight, for your boldness... Dodge preens for the cameras, until: 
 ... and for your courage. Especially your courage. 
 (surprised) My courage? 
 Your courage in exposing the corruption that eats away at this institution. Your courage in taking on the special interests. Your courage in taking a major new step -- 
 But I've... I've... I've done nothing new, nothing at all -- what are you talking about? 
 You're    right -- integrity isn't new to you,    Mr. Chairman, it's second nature    to you. Still it's a rare public    servant who'll take on the special    interest money, take on the PACs -- ANDERSEN, wary, senses danger. 
 (O.S.) take on the lobbyists and fat cats -- CELIA is fascinated. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) ... and who'll stand up instead for ordinary American citizens... ON ELLEN AND MICKEY JUBA 
 (O.S.) ... the plain people who just want peace of mind -- who just want to know they're raising their kids in safe neighborhoods and sending them to safe schools. ON THE DAIS Dodge wants to wrap this up. 
 Yes, courage, Mr. Chairman, is a quality that you have in abundance -- 
 Well, yes, thank you, but we have to move along, if the gentleman would -- 
 (undeterred) Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, the Chairman and I had a meeting in his office with Olaf Andersen of Gulf Coast Power, and his lobbyist, Mr. Tommy O'Connor -- (indicating) these gentlemen here. Chairman Dodge and I listened in astonishment as Olaf Andersen offered us seven figures -- that's one million dollars, ladies and gentlemen. 
 O'CONNOR Dodge double-crossed us. 
 You're fired. 
 
 One million dollars, if we would stop the EPA from investigating the connection between power lines and cancer clusters. (CONTINUED) 
 Isn't that right, Mr. Andersen? Tommy flicks his eyebrows at Andersen, provocatively, imitating Dodge. 
 That's a vicious lie. Dodge GAVELS sharply, turns to Tommy. 
 Will the gentleman yield? 
 That's not possible! You can't give anyone that kind of money! Dodge continues GAVELING. 
 Oh, yes, you can. As Mr. O'Connor said to you, quote: "If that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. No one will know." Remember saying that, Tommy? 
 O'CONNOR I do not! 
 (standing) I insist that the gentlemen yield! 
 You can't deny it, Mr. Andersen! We have the whole thing on this tape! The room erupts. THE PRESS loves it. Still cameras CLICK and WHIR. DODGE despairs. REINHARDT puts his hand over his face. 
 Yesterday, at Chairman Dodge's courageous suggestion, I taped the whole conversation. It's all there. Mr. Chairman, I thank you. The people thank you. America thanks you. (CONTINUED) 
 I thank the distinguished gentleman. And I thank my fellow citizens. Our methods in this investigation may have been unorthodox, but together -- (indignant, at Andersen) we have exposed a canker at the very heart of democracy. 
 You bastard!    You set me up! 
 Witness is out of order! 
 You stood to make a million bucks off of me! Who offered you more? I want to know! A new BUZZ sweeps the room. O'Connor tries to restrain Andersen, who sloughs him off. 
 You're as big a whore as he is! MICKEY JUBA catches Tommy's eye and mouths a question. 
 Now? Tommy shakes his head:   no. 161   INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY                                   161 The phone by Eli Marshall's bed RINGS.    He answers. 
 Hello?  No. You're joking. (to Man in next bed) You mind if I put on C-span? 
 There's no loyalty any more, is there, Dick? What about the three hundred grand you squeezed from me for that goddam voter registration front of yours -- that just water under the bridge? O'Connor tries again to restrain him. 
 Don't touch me, you scum! MICKEY JUBA mouths: 
 Now? Tommy shakes his head again.    No. 
 What about the two hundred k for your phony foundation, Dick? How about the ten thousand copies if your goddam autobiography you muscled me to buy -- what's all that, ancient history? Andersen advances toward the dais, pointing now to six or seven other Members of the Committee among the total of 28. 
 And you -- what about those bundled checks from my executives? I gave you my condo in Vail! I gave you my corporate jet to fly all over the world! I gave your kids summer jobs! I put up scholarships to put your kids through college! I hired your goddam wife to redecorate my office! You telling me none of that counts for anything? Andersen grabs Dodge by the throat. 
 I thought you people were for sale! I was wrong -- you're just for rent! Dodge struggles free of Andersen, who is dragged away from Dodge by Capitol Police. (CONTINUED) 
 How dare you impugn my integrity! Everything I've done has been completely legal! 
 (acting astonished) Mr. Chairman! You mean to say you did all that stuff? You took all that money? Shock in the room. Some BOOS. IOWA does a nice HOG CALL. TJ sends a little wave and smile to Celia. 
 There's nothing I've done that -- (indicating other Members) -- that these gentlemen haven't done! Committee Members rush to dissociate themselves from Dodge. 
 No!... Not me!... Just him!... I never!... He crossed the line! 
 They're whores! All of them! MICKEY JUBA tries again. 
 Now? TJ nods yes. 
 Throw the bums out! LAUGHTER and APPLAUSE.   She's touched a nerve.   TJ leaps into the moment. 
 Damn straight! Throw the bums out! This place is an outhouse! ON THE PUBLIC. GASPS, WHOOPS, and APPLAUSE.    Reinhardt sinks lower and lower into his seat. 
 (calling) Throw the bums out! Throw the bums out! (CONTINUED) 
 I owed you one. Dodge wheels on Tommy, exploding. 
 You lowlife hustler! Who are you to talk? You got into this House through fraud. You think I didn't check up on you? He pulls a piece of paper from the pile at his place. 
 Ladies and   gentlemen, I have here some rather   startling revelations about this   Mr. Johnson before you. This man is   nothing but a con man! A fresh BUZZ from the room. 
 A common grifter! (consulting paper) He's wanted in three counties for bunco! He's a convicted swindler! Some BOOS.   REINHARDT emerges from his hole, encouraged. 
 (O.S.) A fugitive from justice for card sharping, bookmaking, confidence games -- 
 -- and other charges the FBI has only begun to investigate! I dare you to respond! A hush in the room. 
 You know what? He's right!     But let me tell you something --   all that's nothing, compared to   what I pulled here in Washington...   and this shit's all legit! (CONTINUED) 
 The gentleman is out of order! The gentleman is out of order! This committee is adjourned! GRANDMA leaps to her feet. 
 Stop banging! Stop banging!      That man has something to say! Massive APPLAUSE. Dodge is stunned by the enormity of the sentiment against him. 
 Adjourned? Fine. Leave. (indicating cameras) Turn your backs on the whole country. That what you want to do, gentlemen? The Members remain in place, paralyzed. 
 (to the room) I'm a con man. A small-time con man. Do you know what it was like for me to come to Congress? It was for like dying and going to heaven. If I did back home the kind of scams I've run in Congress, my ass would be in Sing Sing. But no, I'm not a crook -- up here, I'm a distinguished gentleman! 
 Now tell me, people -- while these guys are buying and selling each other, who's standing up for you? (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 TOMMY (CONT'D) I'll tell you who. Nobody! Nobody gets five hundred bucks an hour to lobby for the average Joe! There's no Shnook PAC! There's no National Association for Ordinary Assholes! Sure, everyone's against cancer, but "everyone" doesn't have an office on K Street! (to committee Members) Don't you folks get it? We're supposed to be the people's lobbyists. Congress is supposed to be America's political action committee. 
 She's right. Throw the bums out -- starting with me! I'm gonna found me a new party. The Don't Vote For Me Party. Any of y'all want to join up? APPLAUSE and CALLS of enthusiasm. 
 Well, come on, then! C'mon, get up, we got work to do! The room erupts, electrified, chanting. 
 Throw the bums out! Throw the bums out! Tommy is engulfed by people and lights. Dodge, Andersen, and O'Connor -- desperate, snarling -- are pinned to the wall by the SHOUTING Press Corps. Loretta AND GRANDMA watch Tommy bask in his new notoriety. 
 That Miss Oprah's gonna love his ass. (CONTINUED) 
 Tommy Johnson. Kamikaze congressman. 165   EXT. CAPITOL STEPS - DAY                                    165 Tommy and Celia walk down the steps, arm in arm. 
 I can't wait to see that tape you made. Tommy pulls it from his pocket, glances at it, and tosses it away. 
 
