 
 June 11, 1979 Revised 6/15/79 
 #1 Hello, we'd like you to have this flower from the Religious Consciousness Church. 
 No, but thank you very much. 
 Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our flight to Chicago. 
 Yeah, I think he is. (waves) Hey, Fred! 
 #2 Hello, we'd like you to have this flower from the Church of Consciousness. Would you like to make a donation? 
 (shakes his head) No, we gave at the office. 
 Go, O.J., go!! 
 Please put your metal objects on this tray. 
 Taxi! 
 Back in a minute. 
 #2 Hey, Joe, where's the forklift? 
 #1 The forklift? It's over there by the baggage loader. 
 Elaine! 
 (surprised) Ted! 
 I came home early and found your note. I guess you meant for me to read it later. Elaine, I've got to talk to you. 
 I just don't want to go over it any more. 
 I know things haven't been right for a long time, but it'll be different. If you'll just be patient, I can work things out. 
 I have been patient and I've tried to help, but you wouldn't even let me do that. 
 Don't you feel anything for me at all any more? 
 It takes so many things to make love last. Most of all it takes respect. And I can't live with a man I don't respect! 
 (to CAMERA) What a pisser. 
 This is Captain Oveur. 
 (yelling at ceiling) I've got it! 
 There's a passenger on your Chicago flight two-oh-niner, a little girl named Lisa Davis -- en route to Minneapolis. She's scheduled for a heart transplant and we'd like you to tell her mother that we found a donor an hour ago. 
 We have the heart here ready for surgery and we must have the recipient on the operating table within six hours. 
 I want you to make sure she is kept in a reclined position and that a continuous watch is kept on her I.V. 
 All right. Give me Hamm on five, hold the Mayo. 
 Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow night. We'll have dinner -- talk it over. 
 I won't be back. I've requested the Atlanta run. 
 Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really can change. 
 Then why don't you take the job that Louie Netz offered you at Boeing? 
 You know I haven't been able to get near an airplane since the war. And even if I could, they wouldn't hire me because of my war record. 
 Your war record? You're the only one keeping that alive. For everyone else it's ancient history. 
 You expect me to believe that? 
 It's the truth. What's hurt you the most is your record since the war. Different cities, different jobs, and not one of them shows you can accept any real responsibility. 
 But if you'll just give me... 
 It's too late, Ted. When I get back to Chicago, I'm going to start my life all over again. I'm sorry. 
 #3 Hello, we'd like you to have this... 
 Any word on that storm lifting over Salt Lake, Clarence? 
 Unlikely, Victor. I just reviewed the Area Report for 1609 hours through 2400 hours. That's an occluded front stalled over the Dakotas -- backed up all the way to Utah. 
 If it decides to push over into the Great Lakes it could get plenty soupy. How about the southern route, around Tulsa? 
 I double checked the terminal forecast and winds aloft. IFR ceilings all the way. 
 Where do they top out? 
 Well, there's some light scattered cover at twenty thousand with icing around eighteen. 
 Looks like the original flight plan over Denver is still the best bet. 
 Denver it is. 
 Sorry, Clarence. Latest weather report shows everything socked in from Salt Lake to Lincoln. 
 (to Murdock) Hi, Roger. Good to have you aboard. Victor, this is Roger Murdock. 
 How do you do, Roger? 
 #1 Do you believe those goddamn Steelers? Can you imagine blitzing on third and long with two minutes in the game? 
 #2 Well, hell, they couldn't stay in zone coverage with Dallas running swing patterns! 
 What did you think of 'Great Expectations?' 
 Well, it wasn't all that I had hoped. 
 Oh, Bill, I'm going to miss you so much. 
 You promise you'll write. 
 Every day. 
 Better get on board, son. 
 Can you tell me if Elaine Dickinson is on this flight? 
 I'd like one ticket to Chicago. No baggage! 
 Smoking, please. 
. 
 #2 Yeah, man, he ain't never goin' come on layin' no pig rap off you, man. 
 Fourteen-B. It's halfway down on your right. 
 Thank you. 
 "NO SMOKING EL NO A YOU SMOKO" 
 MRS. ELDERLY Nervous? 
 Yes. 
 MRS. ELDERLY First time? 
 No. I've been nervous lots of times. I used to be a pilot myself...during the war. 
 We'll be taking off real soon so we better fasten you in tight. 
 Thank you. Oh Mother, this is so exciting. 
 MRS. DAVIS I know, but remember you must get some rest. 
 That's good advice. You relax and I'll be back after we take off. 
 Two-zero-niner to ground control. We are loaded and ready to taxi. 
 Good-bye, darling. 
 Oh, good-bye, Bill! Have your picture taken as soon as you get there and send me one! 
 I will. 
 Don't you go getting fat or anything. 
 Don't worry, I won't. Okay, here -- hurry! 
 Oh, but it's your watch. You shouldn't. You'll need it. 
 Good-bye, darling. 
 Oh, Bill, I'll keep it. I'll keep it with me all the time. 
 So long, darling. Good-bye. Take care of yourself. 
 Bill! Bill! Good-bye, Bill. 
 Good-bye, darling. 
 Good-bye, darling. I love you. I love you, darling. 
 Good-bye, darling. 
 Roger. 
 (turning to Oveur) Huh? 
 Roger. 
 (turning to Oveur) Huh? 
 (to tower) Request vector...over. 
 (turning to Basta) What? 
 We have clearance, Clarence. 
 Roger, Roger. What's our vector, Victor? 
 Do you feel all right, sir? 
 Oh -- I haven't flown for a long time. 
 Would you like something to read? 
 MRS. ELDERLY Do you have anything light? 
 How about this leaflet: 'Famous Jewish Sports Legends?' 
 MRS. ELDERLY (taking pamphlet) Yes. Thank you. 
 Ted, what are you doing here? 
 Elaine, I've got to talk to you. 
 You...you shouldn't have come. I don't have time now. 
 MRS. SCHIFF Oh, stewardess... 
 Excuse me. 
 MRS. ELDERLY No wonder you're upset. She's lovely. And a darling figure. Supple, pouting breasts. Firm thighs. It's a shame you're not getting along. 
 Yes, I know. Things used to be different. I remember when we first met. It was during the war. 
" 
 STRIKER'S POV 
 We laughed, we talked, we danced, I never wanted it to end and I guess I still don't. But enough about me. I hope this hasn't been boring for you. 
 It's just that when I start to talk about Elaine, I get so carried away -- I lose all track of time -- not unlike Oliver in 'Jesus: the Man.' 
 I happened to be passing, and I thought you might like some corfee. 
 That's very nice of you. Thank you. 
 Ah, won't you sit down? 
 Thank you. Cream? 
 No, thank you. I take it black. Like my men. 
 Were you vacationing in Los Angeles? 
 Well, it really wasn't a vacation. You see, I'm a teacher in the New York City school system, and I was attending a seminar on visual aids to education. Are you from L.A.? 
 No. I'm from Washington, D.C. I'm a lobbyist for the Small Businessmen's Assocation. 
 Would you like to order dinner now? 
 MR. HAMMEN Yes. Steak for Joey and my wife and I will have the fish. 
 When can I see the cockpit, Dad? 
 MR. HAMMEN Well, I think that the pilots are too busy flying the plane for that, Joey. 
 Aw, gee whiz. 
 I tell you what, Joey. I'll talk to the Captain and see what I can arrange. 
 Gee! That'd be swell! 
 Would you gentlemen care to order your dinners? 
 #1 'Ey ma' muh fuh wha' fo', shi! 
 #2 Shi' mo cain ma foh mess wi' ain?! 
 May I take your dinner order? 
 #1 No, thank you, we brought our own vegetables. 
 #2 But we would like some hot water for our tea, please. 
 #1 Did you catch the jugs on that broad? 
 Oh, Ted, I never knew I could be so happy. These past few months have been wonderful. Tomorrow why don't we drive up the coast to that little seafood place and... 
 What's the matter? 
 My orders came through. My squadron ships out tomorrow. I'll be leading a very important mission. 
 Oh, Ted, please be careful. I worry about you so much. 
 I love you, Elaine. 
 I love you. 
 Roger, Denver. 
 We have a visitor. 
 Hello. 
 Hi. 
 This is Captain Oveur. Mister Murdock and Mister Johnson. This is Joey Hammen. 
 Come on up here. You can see better. 
 Joey, here's something we give our special visitors. Would you like to have it? 
 Thank you. Thanks a lot! 
 Have you ever been in a cockpit before? 
 No, sir. I've never been up in a plane before. 
 Have you ever seen a grown man naked? 
 Do you want me to check the weather, Clarence? 
 (looking at Joey) No, why don't you take care ot it? 
 We'd better get back now. 
 Joey can stay up here for a while if he'd like to. 
 Could I? 
 Okay, if you don't get in the way. 
 Flight two-zero-niner to Denver radio. Climbing to cruise at forty-two thousand. Will report again over Lincoln. Over and out. 
 Wait a minute. I know you. You're Kareem Abdul Jabbar. You play basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers! 
 I'm sorry, son, but you must have me confused with someone else. My name is Roger Murdock. I'm the co-pilot. 
 Ah, Victor, why don't you get the coordinates on the altitude vector and find out the ratio of direct velocity over engine speed? 
 You are Kareem. I've seen you play. My Dad's got season tickets! 
 I think you should go back to your seat now, Joey. Right, Clarence? 
 No, he's not bothering anyone. Let him stay up here. 
 All right. But just remember, my name is Roger Murdock. 
 I'm an airline pilot. (to Oveur) Ah, Clarence, according to my calculations, with this tailwind we ought to be able to make up an additional fifteen minutes over the Rockies. 
 I think you're the greatest. But my Dad says you don't work hard enough on defense. 
 (into microphone) Denver Control, this is Flight two-zero- niner intersecting Victor Airway seven- niner-niner. 
 ...and that lots of times you don't even run down court. 
 We are turning left to a heading of zero- niner-niner. 
 ...and that you don't really try, except during the playoffs. 
 The hell I don't! I'm out there busting my buns every night. 
 Listen, kid, I've been hearing that crap ever since I was at UCLA. Tell your old man to drag Unseld and Lanier up and down the court for forty-eight minutes. (into mike) Ah...Denver Control, this is Flight two- zero-niner continuing on a heading two- niner-niner...niner, ah...niner...niner. 
 Elaine, just hear me out. I know things haven't been right for a long time. But it will be different...like it was in the beginning. Remember? 
 I remember everything. All I have are memories. 
 Mostly I remember...the nights when we were together. I remember how you used to hold me...and how I used to sit on your face and wriggle...and then afterwards how we'd watch until the sun came up. When it did, it was almost like...like each new day was created...only for us. 
 That's the way I've always wanted it to be, Elaine. 
 But it won't be. Not as long as you insist on living in the past! 
 CLOSEUP - STRIKER 
: 
 
 You got a telegram from head­quarters today. 
 Headquarters!? What is it? 
 It's a big building where the generals meet. But that's not important right now. They've cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid. Isn't that good news? 
 Is it? Because of my mistake six men didn't return from that raid. 
 Seven. Lieutenant Zipp died this morning. Ted, Doctor Sandler says you'll be out in a week. Isn't that wonderful? 
 I wish I could say the same for George Zipp. 
 Be patient, Ted. No one expects you to get over this immediately. 
 All right. Take five. 
 I found a wonderful apartment for us. It's got a brick fireplace and a cute little bedroom with mirrors on the ceiling. And... 
 That's Captain Geline. He thinks he's a pilot, still fighting the war. 
 What's his problem? 
 That's Lieutennt Hurwitz. Severe shell shock. He thinks he's Ethel Merman. 
 Excuse me, sir. Would you like some coffee before we serve dinner? 
 No. No thank you. 
 Would either of you like another cup of coffee? 
 MRS. HAMMEN I will, but Jim won't. 
 MR. HAMMEN Yes, I think I will have another cup of coffee. 
 Excuse me, Sister? 
 Yes? 
 There's a little girl on board who's ill and... 
 Oh yes, I saw. Poor child. 
 Could I borrow your guitar? I thought I might be able to cheer her up. 
 Of course. 
 Is it all right if I talk to your daughter? 
 MRS. DAVIS Oh, I think that would be nice. 
 (to Lisa, who is reading) Hi! 
 Hi! 
 I'm Randy. 
 I'm Lisa. Oh, you have a guitar! 
 I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song. 
 Oh, I'd love to. 
 Okay, this is one of my favorites. 
 (strumming and singing in ballad tempo) 'I've traveled the banks of the River Jordan, to find where it flows to the sea.' 
 'I looked in the eyes of the cold and the hungry and saw that I was looking at me.' 
 (singing and playing the guitar) 'And I wanted to know if life had a purpose, and what it all means in the end. In the silence I listened to the voices inside me, and they told me again and again.' 
 'There is only one river. There is only one sea.' 
 'And it flows through you, and it flows through me. There is only one people, we are one and the same.' 
 (still singing) 'We are all one spirit, one name. We are the Father, we are the son.' 
 'In the Dawn of Creation. We are one.' 
 RANDY & PASSENGERS 'We are only one people, we are one and the same.' 
 RANDY & PASSENGERS 'We are all one spirit on Earth, one name.' 
 Hey, we've been waiting for you. A little bit late tonight. 
 Who wants to be first? 
 Go ahead, Clarence, I got it. 
 How's the weather? 
 Not so good. We've got some heavy stuff ahead of us. It might get rough again unless we can climb on top. But our airspeed is holding steady at six hundred ten knots. 
 That's great. By the way, Joey Hammen asked me if you would autograph this basketball. 
 After the war, I just wanted to get as far away from things as possible. So Elaine and I joined the Peace Corps. We were assigned to an isolated tribe, the Molombos. 
 Also, Supperware products are ideal for storing leftovers to help stretch your food dollar. This two quart "Seals-M-Rite" container with a special "Close-M-Tite" lid keeps hotdog buns fresh for days and prevents sugared cereals from sticking. 
 Meat and dairy products are protected against unwanted refrigerator odors when sealed in this non-slip pastel colored "Freez-o-leer". 
. 
 I think they're getting the hang of it! When we re-enlist I'll teach them baseball! 
 Ted, I don't want to stay here. It's time for us to go back home -- to the plans we made before the war. 
 A lot of people made plans before the war. Like George Zipp. 
 We did come back to the States. I tried a number of jobs...Well, I could go on for hours, but I'd probably start to bore you. 
 You know, I really couldn't blame Elaine. She wanted a career. I was offered a job at Boeing but I couldn't bring myself to take it... 
 Oh, I can't stand it. 
 What is it? 
 Yes? 
 My, stomach. I haven't felt this awful since we saw that Lina Wertmuller film. 
 I'll see if I can find some Dramamine. 
 
. 
 Captain, one of the women passengers is very sick. 
 Airsick? 
 I think so, but I've never seen it so acute. 
 Find out if there's a doctor on board, as quietly as you can. 
 Joey, have you ever been in a Turkish prison? 
 MR. HAMMEN (nauseous) Oooh, I shouldn't have had that second cup of coffee. 
 I'm sorry I had to wake you. I'm just looking for a doctor. There's nothing to worry about. 
 MRS. YAFFE Stewardess, I think the man next to me is a doctor. 
 Sir. Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry to have to wake you. Are you a doctor? 
 DR. RUMACK That's right. 
 We have some passengers who are very sick. Could you come and take a look at them? 
 DR. RUMACK Yes. Yes, of course. 
 DR. RUMACK Pain there? 
 DR. RUMACK May I see your tongue, please? 
 DR. RUMACK I'll be back in a minute. 
 DR. RUMACK You'd better tell the Captain. We've got to land as soon as we can. This woman has to be gotten to a hospital. 
 A hospital? What is it? 
 DR. RUMACK It's a big building with patients. But that's not important right now. Tell the Captain I must speak to him. 
 Certainly. 
 (into mike) Thank you, Omaha. Two-zero-niner out. (to Basta) Victor, we're running into a heavy storm, can you... 
 Victor! Roger, take over! 
 DR. RUMACK Captain, how soon can we land? 
 I can't tell. 
 DR. ROMACK You can tell me. I'm a doctor! 
 No. I mean I'm just not sure. 
 DR. RUMACK Can't you take a guess? 
 Well...not for another two hours. 
 DR. RUMACK You can't take a guess for another two hours? 
 No, I mean we can't land for another two hours. Fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains. We've got to go through to Chicago! 
 (excitedly) Get him out of there! 
 What is it, Doctor? What's happening? 
 DR. RUMACK I'm not sure. I haven't seen anything like this since the Lina Wertmuller Film Festival. 
 DR. RUMACK What was it we had for dinner tonight? 
 Well, we had a choice. Steak or fish. 
 DR. RUMACK Yes, yes, I remember. I had lasagna. 
 DR. RUMACK What did he have? 
 He had fish. 
 We have two more sick people, and the rest of the passengers are worried. 
 I'll take care of the passengers. Elaine, find out what the two sick people had for dinner. (into P.A.) This is Captain Oveur speaking. 
 Meanwhile, relax and enjoy the rest of your flight. Okay? Okay! 
 That should do it. 
 (into microphone) Chicago, this is flight two-zero-niner. We're in trouble. 
 We read you. Stand by, two-zero-niner. 
 Yes? 
 MRS. HAMMEN Oh, Stewardess. My husband is very sick. Can you do something, please? 
 Well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment. One thing: do you know what he had for dinner? 
 MRS. HAMMEN Yes, of course. We both had fish. Why? 
 Oh, it's nothing to be alarmed about. We'll get back to you very quickly. 
 Doctor Rumack, Mister Hammen ate fish. And Randy says there are five more cases, and they ate fish, too. 
 DR. RUMACK Let's see now. The co-pilot had fish. What did the navigator eat? 
 He had fish, too. 
 DR. RUMACK All right, now we know what we're up against. Every passenger on this plane who ate fish for dinner will become violently ill within the next half hour. 
 Just how serious is it, doctor? 
 DR. RUMACK Extremely serious. It starts with a slight fever. 
 DR. RUMACK Then a dryness in the throat. As the virus penetrates the red blood cells the victim becomes dizzy and begins to experience a rash and itching. From there the poison works its way into the central nervous system causing severe muscle spasms, followed by the inevitable drooling. At this point, the entire digestive system is rendered useless, causing the complete collapse of the lower bowels, accompanied by uncontrollable flatulence...until finally the poor bastard is reduced to a quivering, wasted piece of jelly. 
 (gasping) Turn...on...automatic pilot. 
 Uh, automatic pilot...automatic pilot? 
 
 There it is! 
 DR. RUMACK I'll get back to the passengers. 
 This is Elaine Dickinson. I'm the stewardess. Captain Oveur is passed out on the floor, and we've lost the co-pilot and navigator, too. We're in terrible trouble. Over. 
 Hi, Steve! 
 Yes. Yes, it is. Over. 
 I'm standing over Oveur. Over. 
 No thanks. 
 #1 Chief, there's fog down to the deck everywhere east of the Rockies. There's no possible place they can land. They'll have to come through to Chicago. 
 How about Sal Mineo? 
 Three hundred twenty miles per hour. 
 Thirty-five thousand feet. 
 INSERT - ALTIMATER 
 No, wait. Now it says thirty-four thousand feet. It's dropping! It's dropping fast! Why is it doing that? 
 Oh, my God! The automatic pilot! It's deflating! 
 Okay, but please hurry! We're dropping fast! 
 DR. RUMACK What the hell's going on up there? 
 Yes. Yes, I can see it. 
 RUMACK'S POV 
 DR. RUMACK Elaine, you're a member of this crew. Can you face some unpleasant facts? 
 No. 
 DR. RUMACK All right. Unless I can get all these people to a hospital quickly, I can't even be sure of saving their lives. Now, is there anyone else on board who can land this plane? 
 Well... 
 No. No one that I know of. 
 DR. RUMACK I think you ought to know what our chances are. The life of everyone on board depends on just one thing: finding someone back there who not only can fly this plane, but who didn't have fish for dinner. 
 Hello, I'm Paul Carey from the airline. I'm here to pick up Captain Kramer. 
 MRS. KRAMER Oh, yes. Come in, Paul. Rex will be right out. 
 MRS. KRAMER Shep, sit...sit! So, I understand you've got a real emergency down there. 
 (holding off dog) Well, to tell the truth, they really didn't fill me in on many of the details. Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer. 
 MRS. KRAMER Something about a plane with no pilot? 
 Yeah, something like that, but as I say, they didn't have time to tell me very much. 
 MRS. KRAMER Shep, no! I'll bet you have exciting things happen all the time down there. 
 Well...the airline business...does have... its moments... 
 ...but after...awhile...you begin to... (gasp) ...get used to it. 
 MRS. KRAMER Shep, no! He gets so excited when new people are here. 
 MRS. KRAMER Are you a pilot yourself? 
 I'm...in a...argh...navigator training program. 
 It's unbelievable! How many times have I warned those people about food inspection? 
 The airport management, the F.A.A., and the airlines, they're all cheats and liars! All right, let's get out of here. 
 Sorry to bother you. We were just looking for someone with flying experience. 
 #1 Hari Rama? 
 #2 Rama Rama. 
 You see, the day we left the village it was raining, so we had to take a special jeep to the main road... 
 In fact, we were lucky to even get a jeep since just the day before the only one we had broke down -- it had a bad axle... 
 Excuse me, sir. There's been a little problem in the cockpit and I was wondering... 
 The cockpit? What is it? 
 It's the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit. But that's not important right now. The first officer is ill and the Captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio. Do you know anything about planes? 
 Well, I flew in the war, but that was a long time ago. I wouldn't know anything about it. 
 Would you go up, please? 
 Would ya like a little whiskey, ma'am? 
 (insulted) Certainly not. 
 (to Rumack and Randy) The stewardess said... 
 STRIKER'S POV 
 Both pilots! 
 DR. RUMACK Can you fly this airplane and land it? 
 Surely you can't be serious. 
 DR. RUMACK I am serious, and don't call me Shirley! What flying experience have you had? 
 Well, I flew single-engine fighters in the Air Force, but this plane has four engines. It's an entirely different kind of flying...all together!!! 
 RANDY/RUMACK (all together) It's an entirely different kind of flying. 
 Besides, I haven't touched any ­kind of plane in six years. 
 DR. RUMACK Mister Striker. I know nothing about flying. All I know is this: you're the only person on this plane who can possibly fly it. You're the only chance we've got. 
 STRIKER'S POV 
 Would anyone care for a roll and coffee? 
 #2 Chief? 
 #2 It's your wife. 
 (into phone) No, we can't do that; the risk of a flameout is too great. Keep him 24,000. No, feet! 
 One of the passengers is going to land that plane. 
 Is that possible? 
 Possible, but it's a hundred to one shot. Thousand to one. I know this guy. 
 You do? Who is it? 
 His name is Ted Striker. I flew with him during the war. And that won't make my job any easier tonight. 
 Ted Striker was a crack flight leader up to a point. But he was one of those men who, well, let's just say he felt too much inside. Maybe you know the kind. 
 It takes a certain type to perform under pressure. Striker didn't have it. 
 Ate his heart out over every name on the casualty lists. The upshot of it is that he went all to pieces on one particular mission. Let's just hope it doesn't happen again tonight. 
 Let's see, altitude twenty-four thousand feet, level flight, air speed four hundred sixty knots, course zero niner zero, trim, mixture, landing gear, balance. 
 Ted! What are you doing? You can't fly this plane! 
 That's what I've been trying to tell these people. 
 DR. RUMACK Elaine, I haven't time to put this gently, so I'll be very direct. Everyone of us on this plane is in a desperate situation. Mister Striker is the only hope we've got. 
 Let's see. Those are the flaps, that's the thrust, this must turn on the landing lights. 
 INSERT - SIGN 
 
 (into mike) Mayday! 
 It's the Russian New Year! We'll have a parade! They'll serve hot hors d'oeuvres! 
 Yeah, I was just trying out the landing lights. 
 MRS. HAMMEN I've got to get out of here! I can't stand it! I've got to get out of here! 
 Calm down. Get hold of yourself! 
 Stewardess, let me handle this. 
 Get hold of yourself! Get hold of yourself! 
 DR. RUMACK (to Jack) Get back to your seat; I'll take care of this. 
 DR. RUMACK Calm down. Calm down. Get hold of yourself! 
 (to Rumack) Doctor, you're wanted on the phone. 
 Everything will be all right. Please get hold of yourself. 
 #1 (into phone) This guy doing the flying has no airline experience at all. He'll be a menace to himself and everything else in the air... (he pauses to listen) ...Yes, birds too. 
 All right, Steve, let's face a few facts. 
 As you know, I flew with this man, Striker, during the war. He'll have enough on his mind without remembering those days when -- well, when things weren't so good. 
 Let me tell you something, Steve. Striker was a top-notch squadron leader -- a long time ago... 
 ...but my feeling is that when the going gets rough upstairs tonight, Ted Striker's gonna fold up. 
 Very well then. Put Striker on the speaker. 
 Striker, Striker, this is Captain Rex Kramer speaking. 
 (dramatically) Yes, Captain Kramer. Read you loud and clear. 
 All right. It's obvious you remember me. 
 So what do you say you and I just forget about everything except what we have to do now? 
 You and I are going to bring this plane in together. 
 Before we start, I'd like to say something. I know that right now things must look pretty rough up there. 
 But if you do what I tell you, when I tell you to do it, there's no reason you can't bring that plane in. 
 Let's not kid each other, Kramer. You know I've never flown a bucket like this. I'm going to need all the luck there is. 
 Stand by, Striker. (to McCroskey) The one hope we have is to build this man up. I've got to give him all the confidence I can. (into microphone) All right, Striker, have you ever flown a multi-engine plane before? 
 Shit! 
 (into mike) All right, Striker, now you listen to me and you listen close. Flying is no different than riding a bicycle...it just happens to be a lot harder to put baseball cards in the spokes. Now, if you just follow my instructions... 
 First, I want you to familiarize yourself with the controls. Later we'll run through the landing procedure. 
 O.S. 
 All right. Now I'd like you to disengage the automatic pilot. But watch any violent movement of the controls, like you used to make in Spitfires and Phantoms. 
 (into microphone) Okay, I'm going to unlock the automatic pilot. 
 Yes! The stewardess is here with me! 
 The radio's all yours now. And keep an eye on that number three engine. It's running a little hot. 
 (into microphone) Rain. 
 And a little ice. 
 And a little ice! 
 Sluggish. Like a wet sponge. 
 (into microphone) Sluggish. Like a wet sponge. 
 (to Elaine) It's a damn good thing he doesn't know how much I hate his guts. 
 (into microphone) It's a damn good thing you don't know how much he hates your guts. 
 Oooooooh. 
 Can I get something for you? 
 Cain fo' gwine sho fi cun for. 
 I'm sorry. I don't understand. 
 MRS. SCHIFF Oh, stewardess, I can speak jive. He said he's in great pain and wants to know if you can help him. 
 Tell him to relax and I'll be back as quickly as I can with some medicine. 
 MRS. SCHIFF Shi gwine man chitlun down for mo sho. 
 (indignantly) Shi man I ain neba mo fo gwine ain. 
 '...I sit by the telephone for hours. I love when men send me flowers. I enjoy being a girl.' 
 How ya doing, honey? 
 Oh Jack, I'm so warm. I'm burning up. 
 Here. 
. 
 After my wife died, I felt like a fifth wheel. You know, so many years being with one person -- a very wonderful person -- makes you always think of yourself as part of a pair...When Ethel passed away, I was lost. I couldn't function socially and I couldn't function in business. 
 Well, after a thing like that you wouldn't be expected to. 
 But I think it's time we stopped talking about me. A woman like you -- why haven't you ever married? 
 Well, I'm afraid that's a question that's all too easy to answer. 
 I know the answer -- Career. A smart woman like you became so involved in your work, you didn't have time for marriage. 
 I wish I could fool myself into believing that that's the reason. The truth of the matter is, nobody ever asked me. 
 You know, here we are having coffee together, and discussing education and business and economy...and we don't even know each other's names...full names I mean. 
 Mine's Eleanor. Eleanor Schiff. 
 That's a lovely name. Mine's Milton...Milt Ettenhenim. But my friends call me 'Bubbles.' 
 Would you care for a soft drink? 
 MRS. SCHIFF I'd be glad to. 
 MRS. SCHIFF Ooooh, such a nice soft drink. 
 #1 Steve, this weather bulletin just came off the wire. 
 This? Why, I could make a hat or a broach... 
 MRS. OVEUR Hello? 
 MRS. OVEUR Yes, this is Missus Oveur. 
 MRS. OVEUR I'll be right down. 
 MRS. OVEUR I've got to go to the airport. You can let yourself out the back door. There's juice in the refrigerator. 
 (sounding like Mr. Ed) Did you finish? Was I good? 
 MRS. OVEUR Oh, you're all so concerned about performance! 
 Would you care for another drink? 
 MRS. SCHIFF No, thank you, I'm still nursing this one. 
 MRS. SCHIFF (to bottle) There, just a little bit more -- and then burpie time and a good nap! 
 Doctor Rumack says the sick people are getting worse and we're running out of time. 
 (to Rumack) What's going on? We have a right to know the truth! 
 DR. RUMACK (to passengers) All right. I'm going to level with you. The most important thing now is that you should all be calm, because there's no reason to panic. 
 DR. RUMACK Now, it is true that one of the flight crew has been taken ill...slightly ill. 
 DR. RUMACK But the other two pilots are just fine and at the controls flying the plane. 
 DR. RUMACK The weather in Chicago is clear as a bell, and there's no reason that we won't land on schedule... 
 
 DR. RUMACK ...safe and sound and free to pursue a life of religious fulfillment. 
 (into microphone) Chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic. When do we start down? 
 (into microphone) Not just yet, we'll have you in radar range any second now. 
 (to McCroskey) I don't understand it. He should have been in range ten minutes ago. 
 (into microphone) About two more minutes, Chief. 
 That's impossible. They're on instruments! 
 This is gonna be a real sweat. (into mike) Gunderson, let me know when you get anything. 
 Would you like half of my provolone and roast beef? 
 #1 (to McCroskey) Steve, these reporters won't leave without a statement. 
 #1 How much longer can the sick passengers hold out? 
 #2 Who's flying the plane? 
 #3 Have the families been notified? 
 I think Florence Henderson knows about it! 
 #1 What are the chances of bringing this plane in safely? 
 What are the chances of returning something to Montgomery Ward the week after Christmas? 
 #1 (beckoning to door) All right, boys. Let's get some pictures. 
 
 "CHICAGO TIMES" 
 "NATIONAL INQUIRER" 
 Striken Airliner Approaches Chicago! 
 Shana, they bought their tickets, they knew what they were getting into. I say, let 'em crash! 
 DR. RUMACK Will the hospital equipment be at the airport? 
 Yes, everything they've got. How are the passengers doing? 
 DR. RUMACK I won't deceive you, Mister Striker. We're running out of time. 
 Surely there must be something you can do. 
 DR. RUMACK I'm doing everything I can! -- And stop calling me Shirley! 
 STRIKER'S                        ELAINE'S THOUGHTS (v.o.)                  THOUGHTS (v.o.) You know, Elaine, I just         It's just that I feel so wanted to tell you...            helpless and... 
 MRS. HAMMEN (hysterically) He's dead. He's dead! 
 No, I'm not dead. 
 'What you want, Baby I got, What you need, You know I got it. All I'm askin' for Is a little respect When you come home.' 
 DR. RUMACK Randy, are you all right? 
 Doctor Rumack, I'm scared. I've never been so scared. And besides, I'm twenty-six and I'm not married. 
 DR. RUMACK Randy, we're going to make it. You've got to believe that. 
 MRS. HAMMEN Lorison, do you have any idea when we'll be landing? 
 DR. RUMACK It will be pretty soon. How are you bearing up? 
 MRS. HAMMEN Well, to be honest, I'm very scared. But at least I've got a husband. 
 Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. 
 (filling up another cup) No, the risk of fire is too great. If she starts burning, you write off all those people who can't get out of there on their own power. 
 (filling up another cup) No. A belly landing isn't all that simple. It takes a good pilot to keep from smearin' himself all over the runway. 
 (taking another cup) His only shot's with the wheels down. I've seen foam tear a man's guts out. 
 (taking another cup) That's a risk we'll just have to take. 
 INSERT - ALTIMETER 
 Rats! I've lost number three. 
 What happened, Ted? What went wrong? 
 Oil pressure. I forgot to check the oil pressure. When Kramer hears about this, the shit's gonna hit the fan. 
 I told him to watch that oil temperature. What the hell's he doing up there? 
 Striker, that plane can't land itself! It takes a pilot who can handle pressure. 
 It happened to Barbara Stanwyck! 
 He's right. I can't take the pressure. I was crazy to think I could land this plane. 
 But Ted, you're the only... 
 I don't care. I just don't have what it takes. They'd be better off with someone who'd never flown before. 
. 
 #2 Bad news. The fog's getting thicker. 
 And Liz Taylor is getting larger! 
 All right, but let's wait until they reach the control area. 
 I know what you're going to say, so save your breath. 
 DR. RUMACK No. I haven't a thing to say. You've done the best you could. You really have. The best you could. I guess we can't expect to win 'em all. I want to tell you something I've kept to myself for years. I was in the war myself -- the Medical Corps. I was on duty late one night when a badly wounded pilot was brought in from a raid. He could barely talk, but he looked at me and he said, "Doc. The odds were against us up there but we went in anyway, and I'm glad we did. The captain made the right decision." The pilot's name was George Zipp. 
 George Zipp said that? 
 DR. RUMACK And the last thing he said to me, "Doc," he said, "Sometime when the crew is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they've got and win just one for the Zipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Doc," he said, "but I won't smell too good. That's for sure." 
 (rejuvinated) Excuse me, Doc, I've got a plane to land. 
 I'll take it, Elaine. 
 Listen to me, Kramer. Doctor Rumack says the sick people are in critical condition and every minute counts. We've got to land now! 
 No dice, Chicago. I'm giving the orders, and we're coming in...I guess the foot's on the other hand now, isn't it, Kramer? 
 I know. I know. But it's his ship now, his command; he's in charge, he's the boss, the head man, the top dog, the big cheese, the head honcho... 
 #2 Chief, look at this! 
 (reading) 'Passengers Certain to Die?!?!?!?!?!' 
 (looking at newspaper) There's a sale at Penny's! 
 (to men in Dispatch) All right, I'll need three men up in the tower. (pointing) You, Neubauer. You, Macias. 
 Me John. Big tree. 
 Wagon train comes three, maybe four day away. 
 (into microphone) Stand by, Striker. I'm going to the tower. And good luck. 
 (excitedly) The tower! Oh! Rapunzel! Rapunzel! 
 In a moment we'll ask you to assume crash positions. Your life jackets are located under your seat. 
 We're all ready, sir. 
 Captain McCroskey, this is Captain Roberts. Captain Kramer, this is Captain Colosimo. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Gatz. Captain Kramer, Captain Gatz. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Roberts. 
 All right. Colosimo, you'll work the relay. Roberts, double check all air traffic within five miles. 
 And get that finger out of your ear. You don't know where that finger's been! Gunderson? 
 Yes, Captain? 
 Did you decide on a runway yet? 
 Runway niner. It's the longest, and directly into the wind. 
 And the foliage looks so pretty this time of year. 
 (into mike) Striker, you're going to have to work fast. After this message, do not acknowledge any transmission unless you want to ask a question. Do you understand? Striker, Striker, do you read me? 
 MRS. OVEUR Steve! 
 Just like Gerald Ford! 
 MRS. OVEUR That isn't much of a chance, is it? 
 (appalled) Where did you get that dress? It's an eye- sore! 
 (into microphone) Eight miles. Turn right to heading zero eight niner. 
 (into microphone) You are now eight miles from the airport. Turn right to a heading of zero eight niner, throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet. 
 (to McCroskey) Steve, I want every light you can get poured on that field. 
 (into mike) Tower to all emergency vehicles. Runway is niner. 
 (into microphone) Civilian equipment, number three. 
 (into mike) It's a twister! It's a twister! Toto!... Auntie Em! 
 MRS. SCHIFF Stewardess, how soon 'til we land? 
 It won't be long now. Try not to worry. 
 INSERT - ALTIMETER 
 He's all over the place! Nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet! What an asshole! 
 Watch your altitude, Striker. It's too erratic. You can't come straight in. You've got enough fuel left for two hours flying. You've got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather. 
 I'll take it, Elaine. (into mike) Listen, Kramer, I'm coming in. Do you hear me? I'm coming in right now! We have people up here who will die in less than an hour, never mind two. I may bend your precious airplane, but I'll get it down! Now get on with the landing check. I'm putting the gear down now. 
 Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready. 
 Thank you, Randy. You better leave sweetheart. You might get hurt in here. 
 Ted... 
 Yes? 
 I wanted you to know -- now -- I'm very proud. 
 Tell them the gear is down and we're ready to land. 
 (into mike) The gear is down. 
 Well, I'll give him another twenty minutes, but that's it. 
 INSERT - METER 
 I'm sure we'll both make it...but just in case one of us...well, is there a message you'd like me to give someone? 
 No. I'm all alone. 
 Just in case I don't have a chance to say goodbye, I want you to know that I haven't spent so many pleasant hours for many years. 
 That's a very nice compliment, and I'd like to say that...you've done the same for me. 
 DR. RUMACK I just wanted to tell you both good luck. We're all counting on you. 
 Now, Striker...hold your present heading, put down full flap, bring your air speed back to a hundred and thirty-five, then I want you to take hold of the throttle... 
 And stick it in your ear. 
 And stick it in your ear. 
 (a la Frogsy, the Gremlin) I'll be good, I will, I will. 
 Captain, he's dropping off fast. Almost seven hundred. 
 Striker, get back to a thousand feet! 
 He's below seven hundred now and he's still going down! 675! 650! 625! 600! 
 Striker, you're coming in too low! What's your altitude? 
 He's right on the heading. 
 All right, he's on final now! Put out all runway lights except niner. 
 Turn on your landing lights, Striker. It's the switch above your right knee. 
 All right, now just listen carefully. You should be able to see the runway at three hundred feet. 
 Aim to touchdown a third of the way along. There's a slight crosswind from the right, so be ready for it. 
 If you land too fast, use your emergency brakes. The red handle is right in front of you. 
 If that doesn't stop you... 
 If that doesn't stop you, cut the four ignition switches over the co-pilot's head. 
 See them, Elaine? 
 Uh-huh. 
 Do you see us now? You should be able to see the field now. 
 Yeah -- too quiet. 
 (excited) There he is! (into microphone) Striker, you're coming in too fast! 
 (into microphone) Sound your alarm bell now. 
 All right, now, everybody get in crash positions. 
 Airspeed one twenty-five, one thirty... 
 Just kidding! 
 ...one thirty-five, one forty. 
 Striker, now listen to me. You're coming down too fast! 
 It's stuck. It won't move! 
 Bring it down! Easy! 
 Remember your brakes and switches! Get ready to flare it out! You're coming in too fast! Watch your speed! 
 You're coming in too hot! Put down full flaps! Watch your nose! 
 Now ease her down! Down! 
 Lift the nose! Throttle back! 
 The brake! Pull the red handle! 
 DR. RUMACK I just wanted to tell you both good luck. We're all counting on you. 
 (into microphone) Hold her steady, hold her steady! 
 Pull a lever! 
 Push a button! 
 (into microphone) You're too low! You're too low! 
 Can we help arrange hotel accommodations or a rent-a-car during your stay in Chicago? 
 
 (seated in wheelchair) Wheel me to the West Wing. I wish to view the Degas. 
 DR. RUMACK I just wanted to tell you both good luck. We're all counting on you. 
 (into microphone) Yeah, we're okay. 
 Ted, that was probably the lousiest landing in the history of this airport. But there are some of us here... 
 Hurry now. Please be careful. 
 ...Lonliness, that's the bottom line. I was never happy as a child. Christmas, Ted, what does it mean to you? For me, it was a living hell. Do you know what it's like to fall in the mud and get kicked? In the head? By an iron boot? Of course you don't. No one does. That never happens. Sorry, Ted. Dumb question. Strike that. 
. 
