 1.   "2" 2.   The Comatose Bride 3.   The Man From Okinawa 4.   Showdown at House of Blue Leaves 5.   Yuki's Revenge 6.   "Can She Backe A Cherry Pie..." 7.   The Lonely Grave of Paula Schultz 8.   The Cruel Tutelage Of Pai Mei 9.   Elle and I 10.   The Blood-Splattered Bride 
 
: 
 MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Do you find me sadistic? 
 BILL'S VOICE (O.S.) I bet I could fry an egg on your head about now, if I wanted to. 
 BILL'S VOICE (O.S.) No kiddo, I'd like to believe, even now, you're aware enough to know there isn't a trace of sadism in my actions... Okay - Maybe towards these other jokers - bot not your. 
 BILL'S VOICE (O.S.) No Kiddo at this moment, this is me at my most masochistic. 
" 
 TITLE APPEARS: 
 PASADENA, CALIFORNIA" 
 Mommy, what happened to you and the T.V. Room? 
 Barney did this? 
 (to The Bride) I'm four. 
 Yes and no. Bill got in touch with me right after you woke up, and then again a little later after your episode in Japan. (pause) So I suppose it's a little late for a apology, huh? 
 Even if I was sincere? 
 Look bitch, I need to know if you're gonna start anymore shit around my baby girl! 
 That's being more rational than Bill led me to believe you were capable of. 
 
 *(BLEEP)* 
 Look...I know I fucked you over. I fucked you over bad. I wish to God I hadn't, but I did. 
 If I could go back in a machine I would, but I can't. All I can tell you is I'm a different person now. 
 Be that as it may, I know I do not deserve mercy or forgiveness. However, I beseech you for both on behalf of my daughter. 
 You have every right to wanna get even -- 
 When do we do this? 
 How bout tonight, bitch? 
 There's a baseball diamond where our little league has its games, about a mile from here. We meet there around two-thirty in the morning, dressed all in black, your hair in a black stocking, and we have us a knife fight, we won't be 
 Fuck you, bitch, I know he didn't qualify it, so you can just kiss my motherfuckin ass, Black Mamba. (snorts to herself) Black Mamba, I shoulda been motherfuckin Black Mamba. 
 Very funny. 
. 
 Sorry, bout the bushwhack. Please don't... 
 
 
 A: under her face. 
 WOOSH - OPEN. 
. 
. 
. 
 A NURSE'S TRAY 
 "ELLE DRIVER 
 I might never of liked you. Point in fact I despise you. But that doesn't suggest I don't respect you. You were a master of a profession that's most difficult to master. Dying in our sleep is a luxury our kind is rarely afforded. My gift to you. 
 Hello, Bill. (pause) Affirmative. (pause) Comatose. (pause) I'm standing over her right now. (pause) What! 
 Don't fuckin ssshhh me! If you think I came all the way down to Texas - in a dog and cat rainstorm no less - just to tuck sleeping beauty in bed - you got another fuckin thing comin - (pause, then real loud) You don't owe her Shit!! (then again, but quieter) You don't owe her shit. (pause) Man, fuck that bitch! (pause) Oh you're not are you? Well Bill, you never leave a job half done. A great teacher taught me that once, he looked a whole lot like 
 I guess. (pause) No, I don't need to guess, I know. (pause) Affirmative. (pause) I love you too, bye bye. 
 Thought that was pretty funny didn't ya? Word of advice shithead, don't you ever wake up. 
 Ya know now I get a better look at you, you're not so damn pretty. Yeah, you go that Venus thing going for you but...ya know, now I get a closer look at you you're kinda weird looking. You got this big nose that doesn't fit with the rest of your face, your eyes are two different sizes. And look at your skin...My complexion is way better than yours -- 
 Oh, no you didn't. 
 If you ever take your ass out of this Goddamn bed for as long as you fuckin live, I will beat you into the ground, bitch! 
 (yelling) Nurse come here quick, we're losing this man! 
 Tough titty, I quit. 
 TITLE CARD: 
 of mosquito on The Bride's forearm, its stinger dug in her flesh, visibly drawing blood from its host. 
 
 I seen better. 
 Yeah. 
. 
 Hey Warren, she just blinked. 
 He said she can't blink. 
 I know what he said, I'm tellin ya 
 Just wait, when I get through with this little dumbbell, she gonna stand up and recite the Gettysburg Ad-dress. 
 Hey, Gerald. 
 Yeah? 
 This shit ain't no peep show. Go out in the hall and I'll let ya know when it's your turn. 
 Awww c'mon, I gotta leave the room? 
 I can't get no errection wit you lookin at me, so go on. 
 Well, just hurry up then. 
 He man, keep it down in there, I can hear your ass out here. 
! 
! 
! 
. 
! 
! 
! ....Now do you tell me where he is, or do I beat your fuckin brains in? 
! 
! 
! 
! 
). 
 Well, ain't you the slice of cutie pie they all said you wuz. Well Ma'am, I'm from Longview Texas, my name's Buck, and I'm here to fuck. 
 (VOICE OVER) As I lay in the back of Buck's pickup truck, trying to will my limbs out of entropy, I could see the faces of the cunts who did this to me, and the dick responsible. Members all of Bill's brainchild; "The Deadly Viper Assassination Squad." 
 the D.iV.A.S." 
; 
" 
 O-REN ISHII as 
" 
 
 as 
" 
 
 as 
" 
 as CALIFORNIA MOUNTAIN SNAKE" 
" 
. 
 CU O-REN (11-years old), hiding under a bed, watching... 
 
: 
.... 
 of Bill's own concoction. He calls it, "The Undisputed Truth." 
 TITLE CARD: 
 
: 
 OKINAWA, JAPAN" 
 I see - Very good. 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) Yes you may..... 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) ...try the second one down in the sixth row on your left. 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) Funny, you like samurai swords... 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) ...I like baseball. 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) These are not for sale. 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) And why should I be obliged to assist you in the extermination of your vermin? 
. 
 at HOUSE OF BLUE LEAVES 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Gentlemen...Boss Tanaka obviously has something on his mind. Allow him to express it. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Fight me or work for me. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Drop them on the ground. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Get behind me. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Get on your knees. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Put your foreheads on the floor. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Keep your mouths shut. 
 O-REN I'm going to say this in English so you know how serious I am. As your leader, I encourage you to -- from time to time and always in a respectful manner, and with the complete knowledge that my decision is final -- to question my logic. If you're unconvinced a particular plan of action I've decided is the wisest, tell me so. But allow me to convince you. And I will promise you, right here and now, no subject will be taboo...except the subject that was just under discussion. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) (to a bodyguard) Hand me that head. 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) I didn't think so. (pause) Meeting adjourned. 
 EX CU OF AN EYEBALL (The BRIDE's) 
 EX CU OF AN EYEBALL 
 EX CU OF AN EAR, The Bride's fingers come into FRAME and move blonde hair out of the sensory appendage's way. 
 O-REN'S reaction shows how effective the element of surprise turned out to be. She says The Bride's name softly to herself; it's BLEEPED OUT. 
 Spewing and Gushing Blood from her stump, twists her body in agony, painting the floor and the walls with giant Splashes of Red, as her body hits the floor, twitching in both surprise and shock. 
 O-REN seated in a shogun's seat, rises furiously to her feet. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Sorry everybody, but I'm afraid we're going to have to close the place. There's some private business that we must attend to now. 
 O-REN Miki. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Tear the bitch apart! 
 ...BEAT 
 O-REN standing in between Go Go and Mr. Barrel. Her eyes narrow. 
 O-REN smiles. 
 O   -REN (ENGLISH) (to the     Bride) You didn't     think it was going to be that easy,     did you? 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) Silly rabbit... 
. 
 O-REN WHIPS OPEN a red fan. 
 
. 
 MR. BARREL One last one. 
 MR. BARREL And you're Black Mamba. 
 MR. BARREL Apparently. 
 MR. BARREL I don't like that rubber band. It fucks up my hair. 
 MR. BARREL Too late. 
 MR. BARREL Do you have choices? 
 MR. BARREL I know exactly how you feel. 
 MR. BARREL I can't. 
 MR. BARREL No I can't. 
 O-REN ISHII Screams at her "...last line of defense;" 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) What are you waiting for? Are you on a date? Attack her you fool! 
 O-REN is furious, and slaps Mr. Barrel on the shoulder. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Attack, Goddamn you! 
 MR. BARREL The things I do for a pretty face. 
 MR. BARREL About that one you owe me. 
 MR. BARREL I'm gonna collect someday, you know? 
 MR. BARREL Tough luck bout that arm Sofe. 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) Very funny. (pause) Your instrument is quite impressive. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Where was it made? 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Whom in Okinawa made you this steel? 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) YOU LIE!! 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Swords however never get tired. I hope you've saved your energy. If you haven't, you might not last five minutes. (pause) 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Oh, you really should. It's quite beautiful. Allow me. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) As last looks go, you could do worse. 
 O-REN'S FEET White socks in wooden clogs, walk forward, Crunching Snow underneath them... 
 O-REN when her Sword is fully unsheathed, the Japanese combat artist holds both arms straight out at her sides, Sword in one hand - Wood sheath in the other, like a bird.... 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) Silly Caucasian girl likes to play with samurai swords. Bill might of humored you, but you will find neither humor nor mercy at my blade. Now unless you intend to commit sepeku among the koi, stand up and fight. You may not be able to fight like a samurai, but you can at least die like a samurai. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) I apologize for ridiculing you earlier. 
 O-REN (JAPANESE) Yes. 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) That really was a Hattori Hanzo sword... 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) I always dreamed of owning one... 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) Did he make it for you? 
 O-REN (ENGLISH) ...He must of liked you. 
 Minus an arm, lies curled up in the trunk of her MAZDA XOXO. 
 She'll drink excessively. 
 She'll start trouble. 
 Crazy. 
 in a hospital environment. Bill's voice speaks to her OFF SCREEN; 
 BILL (O.S.; ENGLISH) Sofie, Sofie, my Sofie, I'm so sorry. 
 SOFIE (ENGLISH) Please forgive my betrayal -- 
 BILL (O.S.; ENGLISH) -- no more of that. I invented that truth serum. Once it entered your bloodstream, you no longer had a choice. 
 SOFIE (ENGLISH) But, still -- 
 BILL (O.S.; ENGLISH) -- But still -- nothing, except my aching heart over what she's done to my beautiful and brilliant Sofie. (pause) If you had to guess why she left you alive, what would be your guess? 
 SOFIE (ENGLISH) Guessing won't be necessary. She informed me. 
. 
 BILL (O.S.; JAPANESE) If O-Ren was number one, unless she's being tricky, Vernita Green will be number two. 
 BILL (O.S., JAPANESE) Los Angeles. Vernita's in Pasadena. But the woman you want will hold up in a low budget motel, fifteen of twenty minutes away from stepping on board a plane departing LAX. If I had to bet...I'd say Hawthorne. 
 YUKI (ENGLISH) California, here I come. 
 TITLE CARD: 
 YUKI'S REVENGE 
 YUKI (ENGLISH) Bingo! 
 YUKI (ENGLISH) Okay. 
 YUKI (ENGLISH) You think you're safe! I say; Ha! 
 ...TILL... 
 Hello. 
 Who is this. 
 -- And I don't want to neither. Now 
 -- Stop, I don't wanna hear no more. I got problems of my own. 
 Then bitch, you better call yourself a ambulance, cause I don't do this shit no more. 
 --    No, you can call a ambulance, you    just don't want to. But if your ass    is really dying, you ain't got no    motherfuckin choice. 
 Bitch, I don't even know you! 
 Okay, where you at? 
 Whatcha do, crawl two blocks? 
 You got you some money dontcha, or am I doin this out of the goodness of my heart? 
 You ain't too far away. You gonna bleed to death I get there in a half a hour? 
 Okay, I'll be there in fifteen minutes. 
 Just you better be there    when I get there, and you better be    shot five times, and your bony ass    better be on your last motherfuckin    legs. 
 You sound like you have a bony ass. 
 There's cops all over here, I had to be cool. They tend to notice things like Negroes sneaking around people's backyards. 
 This shit's gonna hurt, and I ain't got no anesthetic. 
 Yeah, bullets are bad news. In the future, you should avoid them if you can. 
 You'll live to kill again. 
 TITLE CARD: 
 (O.S.) Yes? 
 (O.S.) I heard you had a game? 
 (O.S.) Who are you? 
 (O.S.) They call me Bill. 
 (O.S.) Bill what? 
 (O.S.) That, no one ever calls me. 
 (O.S.) Open the door Alburt, let's see what this Bill looks like. 
 L.F. O'BOYLE Are you a policeman, Bill? 
 Not anymore? 
 I'll take that. 
 You'll have to. 
 I give you my word of honor, I will start nothing. 
 Miss O'Boyle required a two-hundred dollar membership fee. 
 That's rather pricey. 
 You wanna play for free, go to Vegas. You start now you'll be there by sundown. 
 I think I'll stay here. I'm thirsty. 
 That way. 
 Beer. 
 Twenty dollars. 
 Twenty dollars for a beer? 
 High cost of living shooter. You don't like it, go to Vegas. You can 
 What am I going to do, I'm thirsty. (throws a 20 on the bar) Pour the beer. 
 (pointing to the can) I don't get that? 
 Cheers. 
 I came to play. 
 (as he inspects dice) I'm not implying anything. 
 That did it fuckhead, you're out the door -- 
 You looked me over when I stood in your doorway. I'm looking you over as I step up to your table. If I don't know, I don't throw. 
 More or less. 
 Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you were trying to take my money, and I was trying to take yours. 
 If you're game, take my bet sportsman. 
 Shoot it all. 
 Shoot it all. 
 Shoot it all. 
 Play a game of luck long enough you're bound to meet some lucky people. 
 And I'm not interested. 
 I didn't come here to make friends. I came here to shoot a little crap. But then your boy over there hits me up for a two hundred dollar privilege to play fee -- 
 
 I wanna    burn you    down. When I'm through    with you,    you won't have a pot to    piss, or a    window to throw it out    of. You'll    thumb a ride out of L.A.    wearing a    barrel. 
 To be replaced by a different fate. The embarrassing truth that you run a gutless game. I won't forget it. I'm sure these gentlemen won't forget it. I'm sure they'll tell people who won't forget it. And we won't come back. If we don't come back, you won't get our money. Couple of weeks, you won't have a game. 
 
 Yes I would.....Shoot it all.....Against myself. 
 Did I stutter, I'm changing my bet. I'm betting I don't make it. 
 You can't do that. 
 Oh yes I can. It's the shooter's perogative, and she knows it. 
 ....................BOXCARS. 
 Can I use your phone? 
 (into phone) Vernita's dead? When? (pause) What about her family? (pause) Nice to see Kiddo hasn't gone completely apeshit. No idea where she is? (pause) Okay that did it, we're going to Texas and talk sense into Budd before (BLEEP) makes him number three. 
 We're going to have a talk about this later. (pause) 
 Got a nose problem? 
 This is true. 
 Course not. First rule of any house, ya gotta have LUCKY GUY comes in and wipes the place out insurance. 
 I sincerely hope you mean that. 
 Do you know a Jessica? 
 Well, she knows you. 
 TITLE CARD: 
 Great day in the morning. Brother Bill livin up to his familia obligation. 
 How ya doin' Budd? 
 Oh, you know my life, Bill, just a mad rush of wild parties and wealthy women. 
 Is that that tall blonde one-eyed Viking bitch in the passenger seat? 
 It's Elle. Want to say hello? 
 Never said "bye," can't seem to think of a reason to say, "hi." 
 What'd ya wanna talk about? 
 Are you not going to invite me in? 
 No. 
 May I ask why not? 
 It stinks in there, that's why. Now what's so important it requires a reunion? 
 You tryin to tell me she cut her way through eighty-eight bodyguards 'fore she got to O-Ren? 
 No. There wasn't really eighty eight of them, they just called themselves The Crazy 88. 
 Why. 
 
 She got 'er a Hattori Hanzo sword? 
 She has a Hanzo Jingi sword. 
 He made her one? Didn't he swear a blood oath never to make another sword? 
 It would appear he's broken it. 
 Them Japs know how to carry a grudge don't they? Or is it just you tend to bring that out in people? 
 (pause) I know this is a ridiculous question before I ask, but you by any chance haven't kept up with your swordplay? 
 Hell, I pawned that years ago. 
 You pawned a Hattori Hanzo sword? 
 Yep. 
 It was priceless. 
 Not in El Paso it ain't. In El Pso I got me 250 Dollars for it. 
 Since it was a gift from me, why didn't you offer me the chance to buy it back? 
 Because that would've required me to acknowledge your existence. Drunken bum though I may be, I don't need booze that bad. But who the hell gives a crap anyway. That bitch ain't gittin no Bushido points for killin a white trash piece of shit like me with a samurai sword. I'm a bouncer in a titty bar, Bill. If she wants to fight me, all she gotta do is come down to the Club, start some shit, and we'll be in a a fight. 
 -- Budd, you need to listen to me. I know we haven't spoken for quite some time, and the last time we spoke wasn't the most pleasant. But you need to get over being mad at me, and start becoming afraid of Bea. Because she is coming, and she's coming to kill you. And unless you accept my assistance, I have no doubt she will succeed. 
 Can't we forget the past, and look at the happy side of all this? 
 And what would that happy side be? 
 She's brought "the boys" back together. 
 I appreciate the concern on your face, but there's a difference 'tween "the boys", time can't erase. I don't dodge guilt. And I don't Jew outta payin my comeuppance. That woman deserves her revenge. And we deserve to die. But then again, so does she. So I guess we'll just see now, won't we. 
 Hey, Budd. 
 Hey, Lucky. 
 Hey, Budd, honey, the toilet's at it again. There's shitty water all over the floor. 
 I'll take care of it, Suzie Pie. 
 BUDD'S POV: The Bride laid out in the dirt below him -- Sword separated from her grasp -- Bloody mess down her front -- Groan from her throat. 
 Bet your sweet ass that don't sting like a bitch. 
 
 ...But I don't wont to neather. 
 Now I know when it    comes to a rock salt burn, you're    feelin pretty much like a expert    bout now. But truth be told, you    ain't felt all rock salt's got to    offer till you took a double dose    in your backside. 
 That gentled ya down, didn't it? Yep...ain't nobody a badass with two barrels of rock salt dug deep in their backyard. 
 Bill? 
 Wrong brother, you hateful bitch. 
 ....Budd? 
 Bingo. 
 And what do I owe this dubious pleasure? 
 I just caught me the cowgirl, ain't never been caught. 
 Do you mean what I think you mean? 
 If you think I mean I got 'er, you thought right. 
 Did you kill her? 
 Not yet I ain't. But I can sure do it easy enough. She's so gentle right now, I could preform her coup de grace with a rock. 
 What are you waiting for, run outta liquid courage. 
 No. It's just...I ain't killed nobody in a long Goddamn time. And just 'tween you, me, and Jesus Christ, kinda made me a promise I wasn't gonna. Be that however it is. Back when I did kill people...I got paid for it. Just don't seem right...turn amateur this time of life. 
 (O.S.) Anywho, guess what I'm holdin in my hand right now. 
 A brand spankin new Hattori Hanzo sword. And I'm here to tell ya Elle, that's what I call sharp. 
 How much? 
 Oh, that's hard to say. Seein it's priceless and all. 
 I'll give you a hundred thousand dollars for it. 
 I'm sure you would. But I'll take, one million. 
 Jeez Budd, who'd ever guess you were such a capitalist. I thought drunks like yourself were beyond such monetary concerns? 
 Well Elle, a million dollars buys a whole lotta Jack. 
 Why then are you selling it to a hateful bitch like me, when you know Bill would pay more? 
 If I'm gonna drink myself to death, ...it won't be on Bill's dollar. It's gonna be on yours. 
 What's the terms? 
 You buy a ticket to Texas, and I'll see you here tomorrow mornin. You give me a million in foldin cash, I'll give you the greatest sword ever made by a man. How's that sound? 
 Sounds like we got a deal. One 
 What? 
 You kill her tonight. (pause) And one more thing. 
 You said one condition. 
 It's a caveat to the same condition. 
 What? 
 She must suffer to her last breath. 
 That Elle darlin, I can pretty damwell guarantee. 
 Then I'll see you in the morning millionaire. 
... 
 Wakey wakey, eggs and bakey. 
 "PAULA SCHULTZ." 
 BUDD (SPANISH) Look at those eyes. This bitch is furious. You grab her feet, I'll get her head. (ENGLISH) Got anything to say? 
 BUDD (SPANISH) In America white women call this the silent treatment. (laughing) And we let 'em think, we don't like it. 
 Hey hey hey, wiggle worm, look at this. 
 Looky here bitch, this is a can of mace. Now you're goin underground tonight, and that's all there is to it. But, when I bury ya, I was gonna bury you with this. 
 But if    you're gonna act like    a horse's    ass, I'll spray this    whole Goddamn    can in your eyeballs.     Then you'll    be blind, burnin, and    buried alive.    So what's it gonna be sister? 
 You may be stupid, but at least you ain't bloody stupid. 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
 (into phone) Yellow? 
 Didja do it? 
 Elle darlin, she's sufferin as we speak. 
 TITLE APPEARS: 
 (V.O.) Once upon a time in China, some believe around the year, one-double knot-three. 
 BILL (V.O.; CONT'D) ...head priest of The White Lotus Clan, Pai Mei, was walking down the road, contemplating whatever a man with Pai Mei's infinite power would contemplate -- Which is another way of saying, who knows. When, a Shaolin monk appeared on the road traveling in the opposite direction. As the monk and the priest crossed paths...Pai Mei -- in a practically unfathomable display of generosity, gave the monk the slightest of nods. The nod, was not returned. Was it the intention of the Shaolin monk to insult Pai Mei? Or, did he just fail to see the generous social gesture? The motives of the monk, remain, unknown. What is known, were the consequences. The next morning Pai Mei appeared at the Shaolin Temple, and demanded that the temple's head Abbot offer Pai Mei his neck, to repay the insult. The Abbot, at first, tried to console Pai Mei, only to find, Pai Mei was inconsolable. So began, the massacre of the Shaolin Temple, and all sixty of the monks inside, at the fists of the White Lotus. And so began, the legend of Pai Mei's Ten-Point Palm - Exploding Heart Technique. 
 (V.O.) Quite simply, the deadliest blow in all of the martial arts. He hits you with his fingertips, at ten different pressure points on your body. And then, he lets you walk away. But once you've taken five steps, your heart explodes inside your body, and you fall to the floor dead. 
 No. He teaches no one the ten-point palm - exploding heart technique. But he is Nietzsche's psalm personified. If Pai Mei doesn't kill you, he will make you stronger. Now one of the things I always liked about you, Kiddo, is you appear wise beyond your years. Then allow me to impart, a word to the wise. Whatever - WHAT - EVER - Pai Mei says, Obey. If you flash him - even for an instant - a defiant eye, he'll pluck it out. And if you throw any American sass his way, he will snap your back and your neck like they were twigs, and that will be the story of you. 
 He'll accept you as his student. 
 More like a sadistic one. 
 Just seeing those steps again makes me ache. You're gonna have plenty of fun carrying buckets of water up and down that fucker. 
 Because he's a very very very old man. And like all rotten bastards, when they get old, they become lonely. Not that that has any effect on their disposition. But they do learn the value of company. 
 That's the title of my favorite soul song of the Seventies. 
 Nothing. When he tells me you're done. 
 That my dearest, all depends on you. Now remember, no backtalk, no sarcasm. Least not for the first year. You're going to have to let him warm up for you. He hates Caucasians, despises Americans, and has nothing but contempt for women, so in your case, that may take a little while. Adios. 
... 
 * Bill is your master, is he not? 
 * Your master tells me you're not entirely unschooled. What training do you possess? 
 * (he makes a SNORTING 
) The exquisite art of the samurai sword. Don't make me laugh. Your so called exquisite art, is only fit for Japanese fat heads. You really are a silly ass. 
 * Impudent dog! You dare glare at me! 
 * -- Silence! I do not wish to hear your unintelligible excuses. 
 * Your anger amuses me. Do you believe you are my match? 
 * Are you aware I kill at will? 
 * Is it your wish to die? 
 * Then you must be stupid. Rise stupid, and let me get a better 
 * You breathe hard. The one hundred steps robbed you of your wind. So your stupidity is matched only by your weakness. Is there anything you do well? -- Oh yes, you speak Japanese. I despise the Goddamn Japs. I would of thought an American would be immune to their pompous posturing. Apparently I was wrong. Go to that drawer. 
 * Remove the sword. 
 PAI    MEI * Let's see how    good you really are. Try and land    a blow. If you land a single blow,    I'll bow down and call you master. 
 * Come now woman, can't you even hit an old man? 
 * Your ability really is quite poor. 
 * Ha ha ha ha ha! I've fought cripples who posed more of a challenge. Now fight, goddamn you! 
 * From here you can get an excellent view of my foot. 
. 
 * Give up? Or care to try again? 
 * That blade's sharp. Careful not to cut off your own arm. 
 * If you can't fight any better than that, what use do you have for a leg? 
 * Now that really would be a shame. 
 * Your swordsmanship is amateur at best. 
 * I'm a hundred and fifty years old, and you can't even make me break a sweat. 
 * Let's see your Tiger and Crane style match my Eagles's Claw. 
 * ...pathetic.....terrible...you idiot, you should've landed that blow...you call that crane?... Enough, I grow bored. 
 * I asked you to show me what you know, and you did. Not a goddamn thing. 
 * Like all yankee women, the only thing you know how to do is order 
 * Excruciating isn't it? I asked you a question! 
 * I could chop off your arm at will. I think I shall. 
 * If you wish to speak romantic languages, you've come to the wrong place. 
 * It's my arm now. I can do with it what I please. If you can stop me, I suggest you try. 
 * Because you're helpless? 
 * Have you ever felt this before? 
 * Compared to me you're as helpless as a worm fighting an eagle, aren't you? 
 * THAT'S THE BEGGING! 
 * Is it your wish to learn how to make others as helpless as you were? 
 * Can you cook? 
 * I'll be the judge of    that. (pause) Draw me a bath...your    training will begin tomorrow. That    arm is still mine. You may lose it    yet. 
 * Since your arm now belongs to me, I want it strong. Can you do that? 
 * Then you can't do it. 
 * And you could shoot a man from a rooftop with a scope-sight rifle, if you so desired, but this is not what I asked. What if your enemy is three inches in front of you, what do you do then? Curl into a ball? Or do you put your fist through him. 
 * Now begin. 
 * If you want to eat like a dog, I will make you live and sleep like a dog. Outside. If you want to live and sleep like a human being, pick up those sticks. 
 * It's the wood that       should fear your hand, not the other       way around. No wonder you can't do       it, you acquiesce to defeat       before you even begin. 
 * In that pit, is a rat. 
 * In the sky, is a bird. 
 * You are to go into that pit, and catch that rat, with your bare hands. If you catch the rat, I will deem you the victor, and tonight you will dine on bird. But, if you can't catch the rat by sundown, I'll deem the victor the rat. And because of the disgrace to my student, I will be forced to kill it. And then I will force you, to consume his body. Because to be my student, you must develop a taste for victory. 
 * How does victory taste? 
 * Woman, is that you who disturbs my meditation? 
 * Enter. 
 * What news do you find so worthy, as to disrupt my bath? 
 * Very good. Would you care to demonstrate? 
 * Not only that, it has you speaking before you were spoken to. Try again. 
 Impressive. 
 * You still fight better than you speak. Finally, a woman who understands what's important. 
 * Begin again. 
 TITLE CARD: 
 Want some breakfast? 
 ...So that's called a Texas funeral? 
 Yep. 
 I got to give it to ya Budd, that's a pretty fucked up way to die. What's the name on the grave she's buried under? 
 Paula Schultz. 
 
 That's my money in that black case, isn't it? 
 Sure is. 
 Well then, it's your sword now. 
 So this, is a Hattori Hanzo sword. 
 That's a Hanzo sword alright. 
 Bill tells me you once had one of your own. 
 Once. 
 How does this one compare to that one? 
 If you're gonna compare a Hanzo sword, you compare it to every 
 So, which "R" you filled with? 
 What? 
 They say the number one killer of old people is retirement. People got'em a job to do, they tend to live a little longer so they can do it. I've always figured warriors and their enemies share the same relationship. So now you ain't gonna hafta face your enemy on the battlefield no more, which "R" are you filled with, Relief or Regret? 
 A little bit of both. 
 Bullshit. I'm sure you do feel a little bit of both. But I know damn well you feel one more than you feel the other. The question was which one? 
 Regret. 
 Yeah you gotta hand it to the ol' girl. I never saw nobody buffalo Bill the way she buffaloed Bill. Bill useta think she was so damn smart. I tried to tell him... Bill, she's just smart for a blonde. 
 Want your money? 
 Great day in the morning. 
... 
 Oh, I'm sorry Budd, that was rude of me wasn't it? Budd -- I'd like to introduce my friend, The Black Mamba. (gesturing towards the refridgerator) Black Mamba -- this is Budd. You know before I picked up that little fella, I looked him up on the internet. (she removes her notepad from her pocket) 
 Now in these last agonizing minutes of life you have left, let me answer the question you asked earlier, more thoroughly. When it comes to that bitch, I gotta lotta "R's" in me. Revenge is one. Retribution is another. Rivalry is definitely one. But I got another 
 (into phone) Bill...Elle. I have some tragic news. (pause) Your brother's dead. (pause) I'm sorry baby. 
 ELLE (CONT'D) She put a Black Mamba in his camper. (pause) I got her, sweety. (pause) She's dead. (pause) Let me put it this way. If you ever start feeling sentimental, go to Austin, Texas. When you get here, walk into a florist and buy a bunch of flowers. Then you take those flowers to Huntington cemetery on Fuller and Guadalupe, look for the headstone marked "Paula Schultz", then lay them on the grave. Because you will be standing at the final resting place of BEATRIX KIDDO. 
 CLASSROOM of 1st Graders on the first day of class. 
. 
 Here. 
 I'm so sorry baby. --Look, I can get there in about four hours, should I come over? (pause) No no no no no, you need me baby. I'm there. (pause) Okay, I'm leaving now, go smoke some pot or something. I'll be there soon. 
 Bring it on, bitch. 
 a smidgen of crimson blood is on the silver steel. 
 Now that's what I call sharp. 
 ELLE'S POV: The dirty BLONDE BRIDE behind the wheel of her new, enormous red pickup truck, HEADING RIGHT FOR HER... 
 her jaw drops open. She's gobsmacked. Not only does she see the dead walk, she sees the dead behind two tons of metal coming at her at 100 MPH... 
 
 EX CU The BRIDE'S EYE - Watching. 
 EX CU Her EYE. 
 EX CU The BRIDE'S EYE. 
. 
 Its one of Hanzo's sheaths. She opens it. It is a Hanzo sword. Near the handle, etched in the steel, are the English words; "To My Brother Budd, The Only Man I Ever Loved, from Bill." 
 Bravo, Bea. I actually thought that alacky had got the best of you. 
 (referring to the sword) What's that? 
 He said he pawned it. 
 (answer) Bea. 
 I called him a bastard. 
 Were I to do it over again, I'd bite my tongue. 
 Shoot. 
 Villa Quatro. 
 Why lie? 
 I intend to. 
 I don't rattle, bitch! 
. 
, 
 carves the name "L. DRIVER" on the cross. 
 TITLE APPEARS: 
" 
 Mr. Bill, you wanted me to tell you to leave now. 
 (finishing up) Yes, I got to go and meet the Duchess. (referring to the flowers) Do you like it? 
 Oh yes Mr. Bill, it's very pretty. 
 Why don't you put it on the dinner table, so we can enjoy it tonight. 
 (she takes it) Good idea, she'll love it. 
 Oh and Josephina, take the remaining flowers and spread them around the house, if you would. 
 Yes, Mr. Bill. 
 You know I just had a great idea. Take the roses, and spread the petals on the bed I just got for her. That'd be a nice thing to come home to, wouldn't it, a bed of roses. 
 Oh, she'll love that Mr. Bill. 
 You wouldn't mind doing that for me, would you Josephina? 
 No, not at all. 
 EX CU The BRIDE'S EYE ....watching.... 
 BILL (SPANISH) Get the fuck off the car, Lucy, Lucy, down! 
 EX CU The BRIDE'S EYE ...watching... 
 EX CU The Bride ...watching... A SUSPENSE THEME PLAYS OVER THE SHOTS of The Bride's Eye every time we cut to it. Over the SHOTS OF BILL DRIVING we hear a SPANISH TRAGIC LOVE BALLAD, coming from the car radio. 
 driving his convertible as the beach WHIZZES by in the background. 
 driving as the Spanish love song plays. 
. 
 The Bride remembering, while she was in her wide-eyed coma state, lying on an operating table, as DOCTORS AND NURSES performed a Cesarean childbirth on her. The NEWBORN INFANT is passed to other hands above her wide-eyed unblinking expressionless face. 
 Hola. 
 Kiddo, is that really you? 
 I hear you were driving a truck? 
 Oh, you mean the little tow head next to me, who looks extraordinarily like you? 
 Her name is B.B. 
 Yes. Do you approve? 
 Not now, she's in dream land. 
 What do you mean by that? 
 Don't ask how old she is, ask, if she's five. 
 Aren't mothers like God, aren't you supposed to automatically know? 
 Have dinner with us at my hacienda tonight. She's expecting you. 
 I knew you were on your way, so I told B.B. Her mommy was coming to see her. 
 That you were sick, that you were asleep, but one day you'd wake up and come back to her. And she asked me, "If Mommy's been asleep since I was born, how will she know what I look like?" To which I replied, "Because Mommy's been dreaming of you." And she said, "Then I'm gonna start dreaming of her." So I gave her a 
 The one I took of you in Paris, sitting on the steps with the baguette in your hand. Since she was one and a half years old, she's slept with that picture of you next to her bed. 
. 
 And she's seen them. But the one she wants looking after her while she sleeps is the one of you holding bread. (pause) We normally have dinner around seven, is that convenient? 
 Well, it just so happens, my hacienda comes with its very own private beach. And my private beach, just so happens to look particularly beautiful bathed in moonlight. And there just so happens to be a full moon out tonight. So, swordfighter, if you 
 Anything. 
 Wear something nice tonight? 
 Will I like it? 
 I'll dress up too. 
 Now you just wait one second there little missy. Unless I'm confused, we are trying to kill each other aren't we? Now I wasn't planning on taking a shot at you in front of the squirt, but, she is asleep. And if you're gonna forget everything I ever taught you, and gawk like you ain't got good sense, I'm gonna take a shot, am I not? 
 Of course not. She's like you that way. I look forward to this evening. It was great speaking with you, Bea. 
 HANZO (ENGLISH) Beatrix, what's wrong? 
 Hello Miss Beatrix. 
 Yes. 
 BILL'S VOICE (O.S.) Kiddo! If you're through shooting the servants, I'm in the living room. You remember how to get to the living room, don'tcha? Go down to the end of the hall, and make a left. 
 (loudly) Bang Bang! 
 Oh B.B., Mommy got us. 
 Oh, I'm dying...I'm dying... 
 Fall down sweetheart, Mommy shot you. 
 You did it Quick Draw Kiddo. You are-the fastest. 
 But...little did Quick Draw Kiddo know,...that five-year-old B.B. Gunn was only playing possum, due to the fact she was impervious to bullets. 
 (to B.B.) Hey, get back down there, you're playing possum. 
 So, as the smirking killer approached, what she thought, was a bullet-ridden corpse,...that's when the little B.B. Gunn fired. 
 Mommy, you're dead - so die. 
 I know baby. 
 When I showed you Mommy's picture, tell Mommy what you said. 
 
 That's the truth. That's what she said. 
 Oh, Mommy spilled something on her dress. 
 No. Kool-Aid. Do you like Kool-Aid? 
 Do you not like it, or do you not know what it is? 
 Well, it's a very tasty beverage that I used to drink, when I was a little girl. It comes in a lot of different flavors and colors, and it's really good. Maybe we should fix some sometime. Want to do that? 
 Speaking of fixing and drinking and eating, I think it's dinner time don't you? 
 (to Mommy) When you were doin all that fancy shootin, you didn't happen to shoot a nice Mexican woman about forty five years old, did ya? 
 No. 
 (wiping imaginary sweat off his brow) Whew, then dinner should be done. (shouting to the other room) Josephina! You can come out now, we're ready for dinner. 
 (O.S.) Yes, Mr. Bill. 
 Want to go on top of the world? 
 B.B., don't you think Mommy has the prettiest hair in the whole wide world? 
 In fact it's better than pretty. What's better than pretty? 
 Very good, gorgeous. Mommy is gorgeous. 
 You know baby, Mommy's kinda mad at Daddy. 
 I'm afraid I was. I was a real bad daddy. (to Mommy) Our little girl learned about life and death the other day. (to B.B.) You want to tell Mommy about what happened to Emilio? 
 Emilio was her goldfish. She came running into my room holding the fish in her hand, crying, "Daddy daddy, Emilio's dead." And I said, "Really, that's so sad. How did he die?" And what did you say? 
 Actually young lady, the words you so strategically used were, "I accidentally stepped on him." Right? 
 To which I queried, "And just how did your foot accidentally find its way into Emilio's fishbowl?" And she told me no no no, Emilio was on the carpet when she stepped on him. (beat) Hummmmmm, the plot thickens. And just how did Emilio get on the 
 And then you stomped on him? 
 And when you lifted your foot up, what was Emilio doing then? 
 He stopped flapping, didn't he? 
 And you knew what that meant, didn't you? 
 What did that mean? 
 (to Mommy) She told me later, that the second she lifted up her foot and saw him not flapping, she knew he was dead. Is that not the perfect visual image of life and death? A fish flapping on the carpet, and a fish not flapping on the carpet. So powerful even a five-year old child with no concept of life and death knew what it meant. Not only did she know Emilio was dead, she knew she had killed him. So she comes running into my room, holding Emilio in both of her little hands - it was so cute - and she wanted me to make Emilio better. And I asked her, why did she step on Emilio? And she said, she didn't know. But I knew why. You didn't mean to hurt Emilio, you just wanted to see what would happen if you stepped on him, right? 
 And what happens when you stomp on Emilio, is you kill him. And you discovered that, didn't you? 
 So we drove down to the beach, had a little funeral, and gave Emilio a burial at sea. And right now I'm sure he's happy as can be, swimmin around in fish heaven. But the point being, our child learned two very important lessons. One, about life and death. The other, somethings once you do, they 
 Well sweety, I love Mommy, but I did to Mommy what you did to Emilio. 
 Worse. (making his finger a gun) I shot Mommy. Not pretend shoot, like we were just doing. I shot her for real. 
 I don't know. 
 No, I   knew what   would happen to Mommy   if I shot   her. What I didn't know,   is when I   shot Mommy, what would   happen to   me. 
 I was very sad. And that was when I learned, somethings once you do, they can never be undone. 
 Why don't you ask Mommy. 
 No sweety, it doesn't hurt anymore. 
 It put me to sleep. That's why I haven't been with you B.B., I've been asleep. 
 I'm wide awake, pretty girl. 
 Did she go to sleep easy? 
 Well, if she doesn't like you, you got to kill her to say hello. But if she likes you, you can't shut her up. She's a chip off the ole blonde in that regards. 
 Red wine? 
 C'mon, Bea, you're a whole lot more fun with a couple glasses of wine in ya. 
 (pointing towards the beach) We're going to go out there and have at it, aren't we? 
 Well, I've already had    a glass. So unless you want to win    by an unfair advantage, you should    have a glass of wine. So we're both    on the same footing wine wise. 
 You know, there's an old man down here, his name is Esteban Viharo. He was a pimp. I knew him when I was a child. He was a friend of my mother's. I told him about you. When I showed him your picture he smiles and said; (imitating his accent) "Yesss, I see the attraction." He told me a story about taking me to the movies when I was five. It was a movie which had Lana Turner in it. And whenever she would appear on screen, he said I would stick my thumb in my mouth and suck it, to an obscure amount. And he knew right then, this boy will be a fool for blondes. 
 Well not you, that's for damn sure. 
 No we mustn't. But if you're going to say sentences like that, in the future, I will resist the temptation. 
 I sent you to L.A. and you never came back. I thought you'd been killed. Do you know how cruel it is to make someone think someone they love is dead? I mourned you. Then in the third month of my mourning, I track you down. I wasn't trying to track you down, I was trying to track down - the fucking assholes - who I thought killed you. And when I find you, what to I find? Not only are you not dead, you're getting married - to some fuckin jerk - and you're pregnant? How do you expect me to react? 
 Why did you leave in the first place? You have cold eyes towards me now. I understand their temperature, but they were warm the second to the last time I saw them, or was that just my imagination? 
 BILL (ENGLISH) You are you talking in Japanese? 
 You're right, I'm wrong, continue. 
 But you never did. 
 My apologies, please continue. 
 Hello, I'm Karen Kim, I'm the hospitality manager of the hotel. I have a welcome gift from the management. 
 So you came here to kill Lisa Wong, huh? Well that's my sister, bitch. I'm Karen Wong, and I've come here to kill you. 
 Oh, I know you're not -- 
 What is this, bullshit story number twelve in the female assassin's handbook? 
 Sit down on that bed and put your hands behind your head. 
 I'll read it myself, thank you. 
 Okay, say I were to believe you, what then? 
 You fucked with the Wong sisters. 
 Yes. But why tell me now, and not then? 
 Fuck who? 
 That's not your decision to make. 
 I'm sorry was that a question? Of impossible things that could never happen - yes in this instance you would have been wrong. 
 Well what? 
 I already have. When I told you the story of when I thought you were dead. Didn't you get how badly I felt? 
 Well if that's too cryptic let's get literal. (beat) There are consequences to breaking the heart of a murdering bastard. You experienced some of them. 
 Baby, you ain't kidding. 
 You know how proud I am of you, don't you? 
 You know I was rooting for you, don't you? 
 You know on that beach out there I want you to be the victor? 
 You also know you're going to have to defeat me. I can't just give it to you, even though I want to. 
 Well, as they say in Missouri, show me. 
 stares across the sand to the figure of the Bride, his student, facing him at sunrise with a weapon he taught her to use. This is where all who teach combat artistry may end up. Facing a Frankenstein monster of their own creation. He removes his Hanzo sword from its sheath with GREAT FLOURISH. 
 (to himself) That's my girl. 
... 
 
 Why didn't you tell me? 
 No. You're not a bad person. You're a terrific person. You're my favorite person. But every once in awhile...you can be a real cunt. 
 
