 and touched off a blaze which engulfed them all. 
 $7/GALLON and replaces it with another sign: 
 for without fuel they were nothing. They had built a house of straw... ii. BUSINESSMEN AT A STOCK EXCHANGE... li. are yelling and shoving. 
 Sell! Sell! Sell! Torn up scrip litters the floor... Ij. THE FOYER OF A HUGE CORPORATION lj. The company's crest is chiselled on the wall. it is accompanied by the words: 
 • At the other end of the imposing room we see a businessman clearing out his vast desk. His name is PAPPAGALLO. On the wall behind him we see photo- graphs and paintings of oil wells and refineries. PAPPAGALLO takes a wad of maps and puts them in his briefcase, followed by a copy of 'Whole Earth Catalogue" and another book. The cover reads: 
 Stage three of the national emergency is effective immediately. Citizens are warned... The speech is cut short as static fills the screen. The family looks up at the lights as they flicker... Im. IN A FACTORY... lm. .a giant machine grinds to a halt. In. IN A CITY STREET... In. .anxious faces look up as the street lights flick off. 
 (PRODUCTION FOOTAGE) MAX stands looking down at two headstones... 
. field, is a strange assortment of WARRIO1 They are cannibalising a farm vehicle: siphoning its fuel and loading food and other loot into their bizarre vehicles. The DOG growls. MAX looks further along the ridge. On the bor:.zon we see a burning wooden s:iack and three bodies strung from a gnarled, dead tree. MAX looks back to the MEN. Several of then, having seen him, are running to their vehicles. The first of them is a muscular man with a red mohawk haircut. He is heavily protected by a leather and metal chest plate, shoulder pads and leggings. This is WEZ. Sc. 4. Cont.. 
. 
. 
 For you. With that he puts the arrow back into his quiver and guns the motor. He rea.; the front wheel, hangs there a moment, then spins th,: bike around and roars back 
 Don't hurt that snake! 
 Put him back... gently! MAX lays the snake on the rotor. 
 Sounded like a big V-8 to me. I guess I got myself some guzzolene. He raises his bow, aiming at MAX'S head, preparing to fire. 
 The car's booby-trapped. Touch those tanks and BOOM! You'll blow yourself apart. The CAPTAIN looks quickly in the direction of the black-on-black, and back to. He gestures with the crossbow. 
 Drop the weapons... Now back up. MAX throws down the tyre iron and unhitches a bolster which contains a sawn-off shotgun. The CAPTAIN slings the gunbelt over his stoulder. 
 You're quick, I'll give you that. Never seen a man beat a snake. Never. Reflexes, that's what you've got. Me? I've got brains. He taps his head as they arrive at the black-on-black. 
 Now, where's this booby-trap? MAX reaches under the car. His hand groping for a machete clipped to the chassis. His fingers wrap around the handle. 
 A fella - a quick fella - might keep a weapon under there. He nuzzles,the bow against the back of MAX'S head. 
 Then I'd have to pin his head to the panel. MAX slides his hand away, disconnects a series of mechanical fuses and shows them to the CAPTAIN. He moves to open the driver's door. The CAPTAIN reacts quickly, raising his bow, motioning MAX back. 
 There's one more. 
 Oh no! You don't play me the fool. The CAPTAIN, keeping the crossbow trained on MAX'S head, opens the door. The DOG flies out, leaping for the CAPTAIN'S throat. The crossbow discharges, narrowly missing MAX as he hurls himself at the CAPTAIN. The steel arrow buries r itself in the car door. MAX pins the CAPTAIN to the ground and recovers his shotgun. Sc, 16. Cont... 
 Gas! Petrol! Guzzolene! Listen! Hundreds... thousands of `gallons... as much as you want... MAX eases off the trigger. 
 Where? 
 Not far. Ten... maybe twenty miles. Pumping it they are. Refining it. Kachunk... kachunk... kachunk... Day and night. A huge tanker full. 
 Balls! 
 It's there, you betcha... I'll. tell you straight though - it's not self service. It's under guard. Too hard for me. But a man with your ingenuity... Jesus I reckon... MAX rams the barrel against the CAPTAIN'S head. 
 Where? 
 Kill. me, and you'll never find out. MAX drags him to his feet and pushes him towards the black-on-black. 
 I Well.,. I never said it'd be easy. MAX unhooks an old pair of binoculars from the equipment belt around his,waist. 
 Okay, there it is. If anyone can get in, I know it's gonna be you. Me,.. I've gotta feed the snakes. Sc. 21, Cont - 
 A man lives by his word, I reckon. And I've kept mine... MAX gets to his feet and hauls the to a nearby tree stump. 
 Look! We had a deal: I show you the gas - You let me go. MAX starts to chain him to the stump. 
 The contract was: wouldn't kill you. The GYRO CAPTAIN turns angry, protesting. pushes the shotgun close to his face. 
 I reckon you got a bargain... Don't you? The CAPTAIN shuts up. tests the chain. The sounds of the battle continue. 
. 
 What's up!! MAX ignores him, concentrating on the situation below. ' The bulk of the MARAUDERS have split into three groups each chasing a camp vehicle off into the wasteland. The HUMUNGUS leads one of the groups. Four MARAUDERS, camped on a pinnacle, keep watch on the camp, Suddenly another vehicle bursts out of the camp and speeds across the plain towards MAX'S clifftop. It passes out-of sight around the back of the hill, MAX hurries from his canopy across the other side of the hilltop. 
. 
 Jesus! He's gonna kill her. MAX whips his telescope around... 
 Hey! What about me?!! The black-on-black roars off... 
 Thank you. Thank you... 
 Let's get this straight. I'm doing it 'cos I need fuel. 
 As much as you want. Take me back... Don't let me die. MAX takes the bolt cutters and inserts them between the man and the panel. He cuts away the first arrow, then the second. 
, 
 Stay alive! Stay alive! 
 Nathan! Nathan! It's Nathan. A man on the catwalk orders the gate to be opene•3.. MAX hurries along the causeway... The FERAL KID comes out of the rabbit warren and begins to follow MAX. A trail of blood drips from the injured man onto the causeway... As MAX approaches the camp the old �ello'.v school bus is pulled aside. The I A3IRI011 WOMAN emerges, crossbow read., , keeping it trained on MAX. She is followed by another defender the MECHANIC'S ASSISTANT - pulling a strange mechanised crane. Suspended from the front of this machine is a paraplegic, He is the MECHANIC. Thny MAX, heading for the car, revealing BIG RLU,CC.A, distraught, running towards him, 
 Nathan! God have mercy., What a waste. Si,F wipe the man's face, caressing him., as MAX walks on. She turns and looks straight at the camp's leader, PAPPAGALLO. He"is standing at the gate, surrounded by anxious defenders. 
 Look at your handiwork! They didn't have a chance... One of the group at the gate -- a nuggety old man called the CURMUDGEON - plays to the crowd, pointing 
: 
 Pity your name wasn't pulled out the hat. 
 We can escape, take our petrol, he said. How? I said. Get a prime mover, he said... He points to NATHAN who is being carried to an old bread van. The rear door is open, revealing two hospital-style beds, drip stands and shelves of medical supplies. An injured camp member occupies one of the beds. 
 .And there's the result! Madness I said! PAPPAGALLO ignores him, addressing MAX: 
 Where did you find him? 
 Two, three miles away.,, left for dead.,, next to his car. We made a deal. In the background the FARMER starts to work the first arrow out of NATHAN'S chest. BIG REBECCA comforts him. Sc. 45. Cont... 
 Three other vehicles. Did you see them? 
 Running hard to the south west. In heaps of trouble. Listen: he said if I brought him in, you'd give me gas. There's no time... An anxious young man pushes through the crowd, talking over. This is the QUIET MAN. 
 There was a woman... in the car... MAX looks straight at him. 
 She's dead. The man struggles to keep hold of his emotions. 
 How? What did they do? 
 It was quick. The QUIET MAN bows his head and turns away. NATHAN groans, ANGIE has the clear plastic mask of an air viva device over NATHAN'S face, PISMO pumps air into his lungs. turns to PAPPAGALLO: 
 I saw a man in trouble. I brought him in. And now I just want to get out of here. Give me my gas. Sc. 45. Cont. 
 For all we know, he's one of them. Give him nothing. There's an ugly murmur of agreement. MAX, keeping his temper, talks to PAPPAGALLO: 
 We had a contract... The FARMER succeeds in removing the first arrow. BIG REBECCA relaxes NATHAN sputters. Blood sprays into the plastic mask. BIG REBECCA screams. The FERAL KID looks on as the FARMER feels for a pulse: nothing. PAPPAGALLO turns to: 
 I don't know who you are, or what happened. But if you had a contract, it was with him. And it died with him. t'.trns on his heel and walks through the crowd, back towards his tent. The WARRIOR WOMAN puts a bow to MAX'S temple and shoves him towards the gate. 
 Be thankful, you're still alive. She pushes him past the car. The DOG trained to protect the vehicle begins to grow]. The MECHIANIC turns to MAX: 
 I gotta hand it to you. Some machine... He holds up the detonators and fuse wire. 
 Would've been a shame to bloc it:. up. The last of the pursuit spec- ials. It's history, that's what it is. A piece of history... The ME, IIA`IC runs an affectionate hand along the bonnet of the car. The DOG flies at him as he tour.hes the car. The DOG'S ja.:s champ onto his u6elessIt-sthreatening to topple him from t. is mechanical. "crane". The MECIiANIC'S ASSISTANT turn, wielding a tyre iron, about to batter the DOC to death... MAX grabs his arm, wrenching the tyre iron from his hand, other men raise their weapons..,. The head of a crossbow arrow cuts into MAX'S neck. The DOG, MAX and the camp people are frozen, waiting for the next move, WARRIOR WOMAN, holding the other end of the bow, motions him forward, Slowly MAX bends and gathers up the DOG. Sc. 46. Cont 
 Its OK, Dog. Just do as they say... His words are lost in the wail of a siren. A guard perched in the watch tower shouts a warning. The yellow school bus roars across, closing the entrance. 
 Poor mongrels... not one got through. BIG REBECCA sobs. The QUIET MAN puts a comforting hand on her shoulder. PISMO and ANGIE huddle closer together. 
 Greetings from the Lord Humungus The Warrior of the Wasteland! The Ayatollah of Rock and Roller. Camera cranes up to the HUMUNGUS as he rises in his seat. His voice is amplified by two loudspeakers mounted to the roll cage of his vehicle: Sc. 50, Cont... 
 I am told you wish to take the gasolene out of the wasteland... The SECOND VICTIM lashed onto the Humungus vehicle shouts in defiance: 
 Shoot! Shoot him! While you've got the chance... The TOADIE takes the wind out of him with an elbow to the stomach... The FERAL KID watches from a rabbit warren near a burnt out hut. The HUMUNGUS continues... 
 You set out this morning to find a vehicle. A vehicle strong enough to haul that fat tank of gas... Suddently, the escaped rabbit runs from a hole in the barricade and out into the wasteland. WEZ whirls his arm around... thud!... the rabbit falls dead from a crossbow bolt. The FERAL KID eases back down into his hole. The TOADIE bellows: 
 You see! There is no escape. The Humungus rules the wasteland... 
 Don't give them the gas! Blow it up! WEZ leaps from his bike and head-butts the man into unconsciousness, The BROKEN VICTIM sobs uncontrollably. Sc. 50. Cont... 
. The MARAUDERS are dumbstruck. 
 I got it! I got it! He reaches up to catch it... Sc. 52. Cont... 
 There's been enough talk. I'm going in! Powerful arms encircle him from behind. is lifted bodily from the seat. The HUMUNGUS reaches over and cuts the ignition and the P.A..system. 
 Be still my dog of war. I understand your pain. We've all lost someone we love... But, we do it my way. Fear is our ally. Later, you can have your revenge. WEZ tries to break free but still, he cannot move. The HUMUNGUS reaches over and flicks on the P.A. System. Sc. 54. Cont. 
 There has been too much violence too much pain. None here i s without sin, But, I have an honourable compromise. Give me the gasolene and I'll spare your lives. Just walk away. I will give you safe passage in the wasteland... Walk away and there will be an end to the horror... He hits the ignition, eases WEZ aside and turns the vehicle around... 
 You have one full day to decide!! The TOADIE jumps on board as the leads the HORDE back over the rise. As the vehicles rumble away, the FERAL BOY retrieves his bloodied boomerang and scurries back into his hole. 
 We'll never walk away. Never! BIG REBECCA grabs him by the shoulder. 
 Don't be a fool! It's our only chance... She turns to the other defenders: 
 It's simple... we trade the gas for our lives. 
 No! We've worked too hard. 
 Walk out there? They'd slaughter us... run us down for sport. BIG REBECCA plays to the crcwd. 
 Don't listen to them! It's bad enough the lunatics are running the asylum. Don't let 'em throw away the key. 
 it'll be alright. I'll talk to this Humungus. He'd never hurt an asthmatic ol.d man. The LUSTY GIRL is joining him.., The MECHANIC turns to her. 
 I'm sure they'll find a use for you. 
 I'd rather be out there, on my back alive, than in here, on my back dead. 
 Be promised us safe passage. Fe gave his word. 
 PAPPAGALLO'S VOICE And just suppose he keeps it... The DEFENDERS turn to PAPPAGALLO, standing on the 
: 
 .and we walk out of here with our lives. What then? Do we wander the wasteland - scavenging. Wake up one morning and find we're just like them - savages. He points in the direction of the MARAUDERS. 
 Is that what you want? I don't. Sc. 57. Cont. 
 Words! Just words. You're going to die, for a pi,pedream. moves over to join the CURMUDGEON and the LUSTY GIRL. 
 No! We're going to fight for a belief - I stay! LUSTY looks straight at PAPPAGALLO, Sc. 57, Cont.., 
 I really wished it had worked, I'm sorry. The MECHANIC'S ASSISTANT starts to push tha MECHANIC'S contraption tows°ds the CURMUDGEON'S GROUP, but the.-MECHANIC resists, grabbing onto the catwalk. The ASSISTANT leaves him there. ANGIE takes the ASSISTANT'S place and pushes the MECHANIC'S contraption over to PAPPAGALLO'S side. 
 We stay! PISMO is left hesitating in the middle. After a terrible moment of indecision he joins. The camp is now divided, mostly against PAPPAGALLO. The two groups stare across at each other solemnly... A voice is heard from the battlements,... 
 Two days ago I saw a vehicle that'd haul that tanker. All eyes turn to. 
 You wanna get out of here. You talk to me. 
 So that's my offer. I deliver a prime mover - in return you give me my black car and as much gas'as I can carry. All I need right now is three jerry cans of diesel and five gallons of petroleum. They look at him quizzically. Think of it as a down payment. 
 That's the last we'll ever see of him. 
 What have we got to lose? PAPPAGALLO nods. 
 
 I knew it. I knew it'd work. Lethal, those snakes. Lethal. Born killers. The snake's fangs, my brains. Lethal I 
 The CAPTAIN stops, staring down at the body of the snake, its head crushed, Quickly he picks it up and begins to skin it, muttering, Sc. 66. Cont. 
 Don't think you're gonna get any of this. Cos you're not. It was my snake. I found it. I trained it. And I'm gonna eat it. Keeping the gun trained on the, MAX rummages through the MARAUDER'S clothes. He finds a necklace of spark plugs, bolts, teeth and two old shotgun cartridges. MAX removes the two cartridges. One crumbles apart. The second, although dog-eared, remains intact, The GYRO looks up as MAX cracks open the shotgun - both barrels are empty. MAX shoves the dog-eared cartridge into the barrel and snaps the shotgun shut. The GYRO gasps: 
 You mean? All this time? Jesus, that's dishonest! MAX nudges the towards the gyrocopter. The stands fast, eyeing the shotgun... 
 How do we know that one's not a dud. 
 There's only one way to find out. He lifts the barrel to the CAPTAIN'S head. The CAPTAIN moves off towards the gyrocopter. 
 
 You can't just dump me! Think of us as partners. MAX tosses him a set of keys, shouting over the engire. 
 It's up to you. Fly a kite, or follow me back. Maybe they'll throw some gas your 
 MAX eases the prime mover down the road: Sc. 69. Cont. hn. 
 What sort of deal's that?! I'm running on empty! 
. 
. 
 Watch your tyres! Turn left! Down over the CAPTAIN'S shoulder we see WEZ'S bike coming alongside the prime mover's rear wheels on the driver's side. 76. THE ROAD APPROACHING THE RISE. tAY. 76. WEZ lifts his feet onto the saddle, steadies himself and leaps onto the back of the prime mover. As the vehicle crests the rise, MAX sees the camp below. He yanks the air horn lanyard... 
 Open the gate!! The FERAL KID, astride the pump, is on his feet.. BIG REBECCA runs to the yellow school, bus... 
. .The HUMUNGUS raises the magnum .44 aiming directly at the oncoming prime mover... 
! The DOG attacks, clamping his jaw around his gauntlet. pulls the DOG out the window and flicks his arm. The DOG sails through the ai.r... 
 The gate's open! Follow me in! A street car and a dune buggy surge up beside him. In the background we see the DOG, running along the road, trying to catch up to the tanker. 
 Don't lose it now! We need the fuel! The CAPTAIN grabs whatever he can find - the two ferry cans and his chains and throws -:hem at the chase below. 82. THI_ APTP!OACf TO THE C.' ?1SEW"L Y . DAY. 8 2 .. To of th':• objects fall across thr- path of the on- rushing street car the third smashes into the vehicleti windscreen - to no avail, the vehicle continues in the chase to the causeway... converging on the prime mover The 4-pak dune buggy surges up to the driver's side wheels, .. The SMEGMA CRAZ1E h4s reloaded the crossbow and is taking aim on the critical last tyre. 
 
. 
 The gate! The gate! Move!! MAX looks around as the LONE WOLF, the LONE WOLF PASSENGER and the TWO SMEGMA CRAZIES start to sprint across the compound towards the gate... Thud! The LONE WOLF PASSENGER falls dead - an arrow in his back... 
. MAX is on his feet running towards PAPPAGALLO, as the second SMEGMA CRAZY is hit by the MECHANIC flying on the end of his lattice-arm contraption. ANGIE and PISMC, manning the other end, smile with satisfaction. 
 OK! OK! Let's go. We leave tonight! The MECHANIC lifts his head out of the engine: 
 We got a hole through the radiator - into the timing case. Gonna take at least 24 hours. 
 You've got twelve. The crowd disperses. The QUIET MAN is carried to the bread van/medical centre; the bodies are removed; camp members load vehicles; men are working on the tanker. WARRIOR WOMAN climbs onto the battlement. 
 I want you to know... that was a very brave thing you did... He doesn't reply - just hands her the flame thrower and descends the ladder. 
 .and tell me, son, this machine of yours - it takes two , does it? The GYRO CAPTAIN glances over the'S shoulder at LUSTY who is admiring the gyrocopter. 
 er... possibly. The FERAL KID steps forward, holding his hand out stiffly to MAX. MAX hesitates, then shakes it briefly. The KID laughs - be finds this hand shaking-business hilarious. As MAX moves on to the pyramid workshop, the FERAL KID follows in his footsteps, mimicing his squeaky, stiff-legged gait. 
 See! I told ya. I said he was leaving. High up in the pyramid the FERAL KID starts to swing down the pipes - towards the bench where MAX has laid his jacket and utility belt. On the floor, PAPPAGALLO 
: 
 I don't have time for thanks. You know what you did out _ there and what it means to us. Come with us, MAX. Drive the tanker. MA:. continues to work - muffling the four exhausts by plugging them with rags. 
 We had a contract. I did my job, I got my car and I got my gas. End of story. 
 It doesn't have to be - we'll make a new contract. I can offer you a chance to rebuild your life, I can offer you a future. The CURMUDGEON breaks in, excited. 
 You gotta come. Look! He produces a grubby souvenir postcard pack which bears the heading: 
 
 This is where we're going. Two thousand miles away. "Bloody paradise. Fresh water... plenty of sunshine... nothing to do but breed... MAX starts to go back to his work. PAPPAGALLO takes him by the shoulder. 
 What are you looking for out there? How long do you expect to survive, scavenging day to day? You're no different than them. He points in the direction of the Marauders.,. ..,vultures, maggots. Don't you see? There is a better way! MAX flares at him, angry: 
 Yeah. I tried it once! Now forget it, 'cos I never get involved. I'm leaving. I leave tonight. PAPPAGALLO is about to reply when a scream echoes through the camp. They all turn to look: the men working on the prime mover are running towards the battlement, An ominous drumming begins in the Marauders' camp. 
 You see! That's the alternative! Men feeding on men. MAX goes back to work. The GYRO CAPTAIN slips his arm around LUSTY'S shoulder. 
 I know you're afraid darlin'. But I'll let you into a secret, sweetheart. I'm afraid too. He squeezes her tight. She caresses his hand. 
 - Go on! Go! Just another mercenary! He spits. MAX ignores him, dragging the plate past Pappagallo's tent. It is crowded with CAMP PEOPLE, laying their plans for escape. They fall silent, turning to watch MAX. 
 I just want you to know that I don't agree with them, He indicates the people in Pappagallo's tent. 
 I don't think you're a coward. A bit stupid - but not a coward, Where else you gonna find what we 've got here? Food... fuel... clean women. MAX goes back to work, putting the finishing touches to the ramp. 
 Men, too, if that's your inclination. Jesus! All we've got to do is get away from that Humungus. With you driving the tanker we can do it. I know you can. I saw you out there. Stay with us Max. Drive the tanker. MAX gets up, snaking his head. 
 I haven't got time to explain. Just believe me - I've got everything I want. The CAPTAIN starts to interrupt but cuts him short. 
 Good luck tomorrow. I hope you make it. Sc. 106. Cont. 
 Thanks. Thanks a lot. The CAPTAIN walks back towards the GROUP watching from Pappagallo's tent. He shrugs his shoulders. MAX opens the door of the black-on-black. 
 Get out. Scat! Go back. The FERAL KID looks at him, puzzled, then throws his head back, howling. stops the car, looking round, nervous. The first light of dawn appears on the horizon. turns to the FERAL KID: 
 You're a fine kid, but you can't come. You've gotta learn - don't get close to people. It can churn you up... The KID can't understand a word, so just grins. thrusts his hand into his back pocket and produces the hurdy-gurdy. He shoves it into the FERAL KID'S hands, opens the door and pushes him out. 
. 
 At the front of the vehicle WEZ grabs a huge exhaust pipe jutting into the air. In spite of the heat he tears the pipe off the mounting. He signals to the GAYBOY 
. The GAYBOY flicks down the toggle switch: there is a mighty roar matched by a massive surge of power in the Humungus machine... The TWO VICTIMS on the front scream... MAX is bewildered by the massive acceleration. ._ The Humungus machine leaps alongside the black-on-black. WEZ swings the chrome pipe down through the front windscreen -, into MAX'S face. 
 'HAPPY BIRTHDAY" As he fights to make sense of his surroundings, we see that his wounds have been stitched and dressed. He lifts his head, looking through the back door of the bread van. ...1 - t f T 
 Then, beyond the KID, coming into clear focus, he sees the prime mover attached to the tanker. The tanker now sports a 'cow-catcher' on the front, armour-plating on the bonnet, steel aprons on the wheels and a barbed wire net along each side. MAX'S vision clears. He sees PAPPAGALLO-on the catwalk addressing the CAMP PEOPLE. MAX drops his bead back and looks to one side: a bloated faces stares back at him. The QUIET MAN, is lying unconscious on a stretcher next to him. MAX lifts his head urgently and looks around. He realises that he is in the bread van. The canopy has been removed and his stretcher is supported by a collection of 44 gallon drums. 
 We're going to use the tanker and the two assault vehicles to punch our way out of here. If I'm right, they'll all go after the tanker. That'll give the rest of you a chance. 124. INT. BREAD VAN. DAY. 12•x. MAX is sitting up, binding his leg tight with bandages, clipping on his metal knee brace. (v/o) Split up. Go as hard as you can. Two hundred miles north there's a bridge. At Powder River. If we make it, that's our rendezvous... As MAX struggles to haul himself out of the bread van, the FERAL KID hands him his equipment belt. 
 I'll drive the tanker... Everybody stops, turning to look at him. is staring at PAPPAGALLO, swaying slightly, hands clenched, 
 Until you're clear of trouble... The CURMUDGEON breaks in: 
 He's gotta be joking! 
 Look at you. MAX nods. Sc. 125. Cont... c,3 
 But I'm still the best you've got. PAPPAGALLO thinks for a long moment., 
 You'll, need these... He tosses MAX his sawn-off shotgun and a bandolier containing six cartridges. 
 I sweated blood on this mother. And no bastard's gonna make me go in no lousy bread van. MAX kicks over the big engine... 
 The tanker! All on the tanker! As the three Marauder vehicles turn to rejoin the tanker chase... whoomp! a massive flash fills the sky. The camp erupts in flame, followed by a series of rolling explosions. The camp people have destroyed what they cannot take ... 
. 
 
 It begins to move... 
 No! The other way!! The KID slips in the first cartridge, then the second... He snaps the gun shut and tries to aim it at the GAYBOY BERSERKER... but can't find the trigger. The GAYBOY BERSERKER raises the crossbow... grabs the gun and fires... The GAYBOY BERSERKER disappears over the side... rams the barrel into the left arm pit of the 
 Get back! For Chrissakes! The KID doesn't understand... He clambers onto the roof before can grab him. The tanker shudders again as another tyre is blown out. watches through the rear window as"the KID jumps from the cabin to the top of the tanker and then disappears from view. 161. TOP OF THi TANKER. DAY. 161, The KID tries to load the crossbow as he clambers along the top of the tanker... The bow string is too powerful for him to draw. 
 Jump! Its finished. Jump! MAX turns around, looking for the KID... The tanker leaves the road and ramps up on the embankment, rolling to a stop. 
 Jump! 
 The Kid?! Cr 1AF runt 
 Forget it! Jump! MAX hesitates. As the MARAUDERS swarm on top of the tanker, guns the engine... spraying dust, MAX leaps, the arm of the BEAR CLAW BIKER still. embedded in 
 He grabs the rear roll bar of the Lone Wolf machine, fighting to swing his feet clear... and finds a foothold as the vehicle roars away... 
- He H e pulls out a handful of sand. Below the HTJMUNGUS has opened the outlet hose. Sand pours out onto the road. Above him, the KID is hanging by his arm. Despite the pain... he grins. 
 All this - and no guzzolene. WEZ, pale with fury, speaks softly: 
 I know where there's guzzolene, whirls around and fires his crossbow,,. The arrow buries itself in the HUMUNGUS'S mask... The big man crumbles to the ground, dead. The rest of the HORDE are arriving. As their vehicles screech to a halt TWO SMEGMA CRAZIES and TWO GAYBOY BERSERKERS leap out, waving their Jerry cans in the air., the SECOND MOHAWKER and TWO OTHERS, open fire. The FOUR MARAUDERS crumple.. 
: 
 We've done it! I thought it'd be impossible. But we've done it!! 
: 
 What about the Kid?! 
 We've won! Don't you see? The fuel was with the others. It's already at Powder River. MAX reaches across and cuts the engine... the vehicle rolls to a stop... MAX g-abs. 
 What happened to the boy?! 
 We've gotta keep going. It's our only chance. MAX raises the Bear Claw arm to'S face. We see that the crossbow strapped to the forearm is still loaded. 
 The Kid? 
 I had to leave him... he was pinned to the rig... Sc. 168. Conc. 
 You left him there? With them? Alive? 
 
