 
 (gently) Brother -- Bapu is already late for prayers. 
 Oh, God... oh, God... 
 
 (clipped, weighted) ...The object of this massive tribute died as he had always lived -- a private man without wealth, without property, without official title or office... 
 
 Tell me -- do you think about hell? 
 (stares at him blankly) "Hell!" 
 (the eternal, earnest sophomore) No -- neither do I. But... (he points abruptly to the book) but this man is a Christian and he has written -- 
 Excuse me, baas, but how long have you been in South Africa? 
 (puzzled) A -- a week. 
 Well, I don't know how you got a ticket for -- 
 Here -- coolie, just what are you doing in this car? 
 Why -- I -- I have a ticket. A First Class ticket. 
 How did you get hold of it? 
 I sent for it in the post. I'm an attorney, and I didn't have time to -- 
 I'll take your luggage back, baas. 
 No, no -- just a moment, please. 
 You see, Mohandas K. Gandhi, Attorney at Law. I am going to Pretoria to conduct a case for an Indian trading firm. 
 Sir, I was called to the bar in London and enrolled in the High Court of Chancery -- I am therefore an attorney, and since I am -- in your eyes -- colored -- I think we can deduce that there is at least one colored attorney in South Africa. 
 You move your damn sammy carcass back to third class or I'll have you thrown off at the next station. 
 (anger, a touch of panic) I always go First Class! I have traveled all over England and I've never... 
 But you're a rich man -- why do you put up with it? 
 (a shrug) I'm rich -- but I'm Indian. I therefore do not expect to travel First Class. 
 In England, I was a poor student but I -- 
 That was England. 
 This part of "England's" Empire! 
 Mr. Gandhi, you look at Mr. Khan and see a successful Muslim trader. The South Africans see him simply as an Indian. And the vast majority of Indians -- mostly Hindu like yourself -- (there is a moment of blinking embarrassment from Gandhi at this mention of his own religion) were brought here to work the mines and harvest the crops -- and the Europeans don't want them doing anything else. 
 But that is very un-Christian. 
 Mr. Gandhi, in this country Indians are not allowed to walk along a pavement with a "Christian"! 
 You mean you employ Mr. Baker as your attorney, but you can't walk down the street with him? 
 I can. But I risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than Mr. Baker. 
 Well, then, it must be fought. We are children of God like everyone else. 
 (dryly) Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon? 
 I -- I will write to the press -- here -- and in England. (He turns to Baker firmly) And I will use the courts. 
 You will make a lot of trouble. 
 We are members of the Empire. And we come from an ancient civilization. Why should we not walk on the pavements like other men? 
 I rather like the idea of an Indian barrister in South Africa. I'm sure our community could keep you in work for some time, Mr. Gandhi -- even if you caused a good deal of trouble. (Gandhi reacts uncertainly.) Especially if you caused a good deal of trouble. 
 There's the English reporter. I told you he'd come. 
 You also said your article would draw a thousand people. (If the crowd numbers 100 they're lucky.) At least some of the Hindus brought their wives. 
 No. I asked my wife to organize that. 
 (alarmed) Some of them are leaving... 
 Ladies and Gentlemen, we have asked you to gather here to help us proclaim our right to be treated as equal citizens of the Empire. 
 We do not seek conflict. We know the strength of the forces arrayed against us, know that because of them we can only use peaceful means -- but we are determined that justice will be done! 
 The symbol of our status is embodied in this pass -- which we must carry at all times, but no European even has to have. 
 And the first step to changing our status is to eliminate this difference between us. 
 (quietly) You write brilliantly, but you have much to learn about handling men. 
 (the reading not fluent, but firm and pointed) We do not want to ignite... the fear or hatred of anyone. But we ask you -- Hindu, Muslim and Sikh -- to help us light up the sky... and the minds of the British authorities -- with our defiance of this injustice. 
 We will now burn the passes of our committee and its supporters. We ask you to put your passes on the fire with -- 
 Oh, no, you bloody well don't! 
 Those passes are government property! And I will arrest the first man who tries to burn one! 
 Take him away! 
 Now -- are there any more?! 
 You little sammy bastard -- I -- 
 You want that kind of trouble -- you can have it! 
 Let me go! 
 Stop! 
 You saved the papers. 
 I wish you were still struggling for work in Bombay. 
 I hated that -- all the pettiness, the little corruptions. (A reflective grin.) And I was more laughing stock than lawyer. 
 But they needed me here. If I'd never been thrown off that train, perhaps no one would ever have needed me. 
 (reading) "A high court judge has confirmed that Mr. Gandhi would have been within his rights to prosecute for assault since neither he nor Mr. Khan resisted arrest." -- I told you about English law. 
 As I told you about English policemen. 
 Yes? 
 We are glad to have you back, Bapu. 
 And I am glad to be back. (He holds his hands out to Ramdas.) Come... 
 Be careful! 
 Tomorrow I will tell you what it feels like to be a jailbird. 
 Come. Come. 
 Just like proper English gentlemen. I'm proud of them. 
 They are boys. -- And they're Indian. 
 Hm. Will you take this off? (he touches the bandage on his cheek) It pinches every time I speak. 
 Here, you see? Even the South African papers apologize -- "a monstrous attack." 
 (of the tape, as she is about to pull it) Are you sure? 
 (impatiently) Yes -- I can't talk like this. 
 Pull! 
 Oww! 
 (mockingly) Mr. Khan said they called you brave. 
 If you would let me teach you to read, you could see for yourself. 
 I could have told them you were merely foolish. 
 It proves what I told you. If I had prosecuted him as everyone advised -- even you -- they would have hated me -- by showing forgiveness I -- ouch! 
 There... 
 (as though continuing the argument) You see there is such a thing as moral force -- and it can be harnessed. 
 Not always. You have told me twice now that you were giving up the pleasures of the flesh. 
 I am. I am convinced the holy men are right. When you give up, you gain. The simpler your life the better. 
 I will fast tomorrow -- as a penance. 
 If you enjoy it a great deal you must fast for two days. 
 EXTERIOR - MORNING 
 Yes -- ? 
 Did they? Well, they'll find we're a little better prepared this time. Mr. Gandhi will find he's on a long hiding to nothing. 
 You'd be Gandhi -- (Gandhi nods.) ...I thought you'd be bigger. 
 I'm sorry. 
 I -- I mean it's all right. It doesn't matter. (He suddenly steps forward and thrusts out his hand.) I'm -- my name is Andrews, Charlie Andrews. I've come from India -- I've read a great deal about you. 
 Some of it good, I hope. 
 (to Charlie) Would you care to walk? 
 (noting Charlie's collar) You're a clergyman. 
 Yes. I've -- I've met some very remarkable people in India... and -- and when I read what you've been doing here, I -- I wanted to help. (He looks at Gandhi, then smiles awkwardly.) Does that surprise you? 
 Not anymore. (And now he smiles.) At first I was amazed... but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up -- like you -- right out of the pavement. Even when it is dangerous or -- 
 Hey -- look what's comin'! 
 A white shepherd leading a brown sammy! 
 Perhaps I should -- 
 Doesn't the New Testament say, "If your enemy strikes you on the right cheek, offer him the left"? 
 I think perhaps the phrase was used metaphorically... I don't think our Lord meant -- 
 I'm not so certain. I have thought about it a great deal. I suspect he meant you must show courage -- be willing to take a blow -- several blows -- to show you will not strike back -- nor will you be turned aside... And when -- 
 ...and when you do that it calls upon something in human nature -- something that makes his hate for you diminish and his respect increase. I think Christ grasped that and I -- I have seen it work. 
 Good morning. 
 Get off the pavement, you bloody -- 
 A WOMAN'S VOICE Colin! Colin! What are you doing? 
 Nuthing... nuthing. We were just cleaning up the neighborhood a little. 
 COLIN'S MOTHER You're already late for work. I thought you'd gone ten minutes ago. 
 You'll find there's room for us both. 
 (relieved) That was lucky. 
 I thought you were a man of God. 
 (wittily, but making his point) I am. But I'm not so egotistical as to think He plans His day around my dilemmas. 
 ...you could call it a "communal farm," I suppose. But we've all come to the same conclusion -- our Gita, the Muslim's Koran or your Bible -- it's always the simple things that catch your breath -- "Love thy neighbor as thyself" -- (He smiles, thinking back at the youths.) not always practiced -- but it's something we Hindus could learn a lot from. 
 That's the sort of thing you'll be seeking on this "farm"... 
 (a smile) Well, we shall try. 
 They're going to change the pass laws. 
 Just one second, sir, please. 
 But on a short trip, I wouldn't spend too much time on the Indian question, Mr. Walker. It's a tiny factor in South African life. 
 (a helpless shrug) It's news at the moment. I will certainly report on your mines and the economy -- but I would like to meet this Mr. Gandhi. 
 Of course. We Westerners have a weakness for these -- these spiritually inclined men of India. But as an old lawyer, let me warn you, Mr. Gandhi is as shrewd a man as you will ever meet, however "otherworldly" he may seem. But I'm sure you're enough of a reporter to see that. 
 ...so it's not "spiritualism" or "nationalism" -- we're not against anything but the idea that people can't live together. 
 You see -- Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Jews -- even Christians. 
 Mr. Walker! Of The New York Times! 
 Without a paper -- a journal of some kind -- you cannot unite a community. (A teasing smile.) You belong to a very important profession. 
 Hm. And what should an "important professional" write about your response to General Smuts's new legislation? 
 I don't know... I'm still searching for a "response." 
 (a leading question) You will respect the law. 
 (a beat) There are unjust laws -- as there are unjust men. 
 You're a very small minority to take on the Government -- and the Empire. 
 If you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth. 
 This is Mr. Kallenbach. He is our chief carpenter -- and also our chief benefactor. He has made this experiment possible. 
 Well, it's quite a place, your "ashram" -- is that right? 
 That's right. The word only means "community." But it could stand for "village"... or the world. 
 You're an ambitious man. 
 (uncertainly) I hope not. 
 They tell me you also take your turn at peeling potatoes and cleaning the "outhouse" -- is that part of the experiment? 
 (a little surprised, a little annoyed) Ba -- we will need another place set for Mr. Walker's driver. 
 I will tell Sora. 
 It's one way to learn that each man's labor is as important as another's. In fact when you're doing it, "cleaning the outhouse" seems far more important than the law. 
 Please come and join us -- you'll need something before your journey back. (He nods to Walker.) Excuse me a moment. 
 What is it? 
 Sora was sent to tell me I -- I must rake and cover the latrine. 
 Everyone takes his turn. 
 It is the work of untouchables. 
 In this place there are no untouchables -- and no work is beneath any of us! 
 (she looks up at him) I am your wife. 
 All the more reason. 
 (finally, scornfully) As you command. 
 The others may follow you -- but you forget, I knew you when you were a boy! 
 It's not me. It's the principle. And you will do it with joy or not do it at all! 
 Not at all then... 
 All right, go! You don't belong here! Go! Leave the ashram! Get out altogether! We don't want you! 
 Stop it! Stop it! What are you doing!? 
 (bitterly) Have you no shame? I'm your wife... (Like lead) Where do you expect me to go? 
 What is the matter with me...? 
 (a beat) You are human -- only human. 
 And it is even harder for those of us who do not even want to be as good as you do. 
 I apologize... 
 I must go back to that reporter. 
 ...And I must rake and cover the latrine. 
 (to the house) I want to welcome you all! 
 Every one of you. (Then, still at them) We -- have -- no -- secrets. 
 Let us begin by being clear about General Smuts's new law. All Indians must now be fingerprinted -- like criminals. Men and women. (A rising, angry response; Gandhi just waits.) No marriage other than a Christian marriage is considered valid. Under this Act our wives and mothers are whores... And every man here a bastard. 
 He's become quite good at this. 
 And a policeman passing an Indian dwelling -- I will not call them homes -- may enter and demand the card or any Indian woman whose dwelling it is. 
 A God damn them! 
 Understand! He does not have to stand at the door -- he may enter. 
 I swear to Allah I will kill the man who offers that insult to my home and my wife! (A guttural cheer; he glares at the police.) And let them hang me! 
 I say talk means nothing. Kill a few officials before they disgrace one Indian woman -- then they might think twice about such laws! 
 I praise such courage. I need such courage -- because in this cause, I too am prepared to die... (A response; he looks at Tyeb Mohammed) But, my friend, there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill. 
 I have asked you here tonight because despite all their troops and police, I think there is a way to defeat this law. Whatever they do to us we will attack no one, kill no one... But we will not (the climatic point) give our fingerprints -- not one of us. 
 They will imprison us, they will fine us. They will seize our possessions. But they cannot take away our self-respect if we do not give it to them. 
 I am asking you to fight -- ! (It catches the audience a little, holds them.) To fight against their anger -- not to provoke it! 
 We will not strike a blow -- but we will receive them. And through our pain we will make them see their injustice (quickly) and it will hurt, as all fighting hurts! (Utter silence.) ...But we cannot lose. We cannot. (He looks down at the police.) Because they may torture my body, may break my bones, even kill me... (Up to the house) They will then have my dead body -- not my obedience. 
 We are Hindu and Muslim -- children of God, each of us. Let us take a solemn oath in His name that -- come what may -- we will not submit to this law. 
 (a coarse singing) God save our gracious King... Long live our (the audience takes it up) ...noble King. (And their voices fill the auditorium) God save the King!! 
 You have put their comrades in jail. When you free them they will go back to work. 
 We have warned each other. 
 I don't think that is very good. 
 At the canter -- for-ward! 
 (half to Gandhi) We should lie down -- the horses won't tramp on us. (Then shouting out) Down! Down! Everyone lie down! 
 Lie down! Lie down! 
 The horses have more mercy than the men. 
 You're right! 
 Lie down! Lie down! 
 Follow me! 
 What the hell are we supposed to do now? 
 Some of you may be rejoicing that Mr. Gandhi has at last been put into prison. 
 But I would ask you -- assembled here in this house of God -- to recognize that we are witnessing something new, something so unexpected, so unusual that it is not surprising the Government is at a loss. What Mr. Gandhi has forced us to do is ask questions about ourselves. 
 As Christians, those are difficult questions to answer. How do we treat men who defy an unjust law -- men who will not fight, but will not comply? 
 They're sparing no one, I see. 
 No. You were the surprise. It's been all over the prison. We thought they'd be too afraid of the English press. 
 So did I. 
 (acidly) Don't worry about the meat -- it's Hindu (referring to the soup) -- there's not a trace. 
 I don't know who they've left out there to do the work. There can't be one mine left open. Have they touched the women? 
 My wife publicly defied the law. They've arrested her and four others. 
 (angrily) The fools! (He spills some soup.) Sorry... 
 It's split the Government. 
 Well, that's one victory. 
 If we hold firm, it won't be the last. 
 Don't worry -- I've never seen men so determined. You've given them a way to fight... And I don't think -- 
 Gandhi! I want Gandhi! Which sammy is it? 
 Ah, Mr. Gandhi. I thought we might have a little talk. 
 Will you have a glass of sherry? 
 Thank you. No. 
 Perhaps some tea? 
 (a shake of the head) I dined at the prison. 
 Ahh. 
 Please -- please do come and sit down. It's prison I wanted to talk to you about. 
 Mr. Gandhi, I've more or less decided to ask the House to repeal the Act that you have taken such "exception" to. 
 (a beat) Well, if you ask, General Smuts, I'm sure it will be done. 
 Hm. Of course it is not quite that simple. 
 Somehow I expected not. 
 I'm glad to hear you say that... very glad. You see if we repeal the Act under pressure (a nod at the papers again) under this kind of pressure it will create a great deal of resentment. Can you understand that? 
 Very well. 
 (a bit surprised) Good. Good. (The bland politician: the compromise.) I have thought of calling for a Royal Commission to "investigate" the new legislation. (He gestures, implying they'll do what they're told.) I think I could guarantee they would recommend the Act be repealed. 
 (waiting for the catch) I congratulate them. 
 But they might also recommend that future Indian immigration be severely restricted -- even stopped. 
 Immigration was not an issue on which we fought. It would be wrong of us to make it one now that we -- we are in a position of advantage. 
 You're an extraordinary man. 
 (his grin; he brushes at his prison garb) I assure you I feel a very ordinary man at this moment. 
 I'm ordering the release of all prisoners within the next twenty- four hours. You yourself are free from this moment. 
 Assuming we are in agreement? 
 Yes -- yes. It's just that... in these clothes I'd -- I'd prefer to go by taxi. 
 (confused by his hesitation) All right. Fine. 
 I'm -- I'm afraid I have no money. 
 Oh! (He quickly feels in his waistcoat pockets -- and realizes he has no money!) Neither have I. (He reaches forth and touches a buzzer.) I'm awfully sorry. 
 Daniels, would you lend Mr. Gandhi a shilling for a taxi? 
 I beg your pardon, sir? 
 (a second thought) How far will you be going, Mr. Gandhi? 
 (a mischievous smile) Well -- now that this is settled -- I had thought seriously of going back to India (he faces the startled Daniel) but a shilling will do splendidly for the moment. 
 Thank you. (To Smuts) Thank you both for a very enlightening experience. 
 (ice) I'm obliged, Mr. Daniels, but I will find my own way out. 
 (a shake of the head) He's either a great man or a colossal fraud... Either way, I shall be glad to see the last of him. 
 By God, he loves it... 
 I'm sure he hates it. 
 Generals' reputations are being made in France today, fighting on the Western Front. Not as Military Governors in India. 
 What the devil's going on back there? 
 It must be that Indian that made all that fuss back in Africa. My cabin boy told me he was on board. 
 Why haven't we seen him? (Finding the name) Gandhi? 
 Yes. That's it. He was traveling Third Class. There he is. 
 After he came out of jail he refused to wear European clothes. 
 No, no, I haven't "refused"... I -- I simply wanted to dress the way my comrades in prison dressed. 
 Will you support the war effort, Mr. Gandhi? 
 I -- I have demanded rights as a British citizen, it is therefore my duty to help in the defense of the British Empire. 
 What are you going to do now that you're back in India? 
 I don't know... I don't know... 
 Please, Mr. Gandhi. 
 My dignity comes from following my husband. 
. 
 (he too speaks with an Oxbridge accent) Just a few words -- then we'll get you to civilization. 
 I -- I am glad to be home. (A little round of applause.) I -- I thank you for your greeting. 
 We'll follow with your wife -- don't worry, everything's arranged. 
 Who is that young man? 
 That's young Nehru. He's got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. If they don't ruin him at Cambridge -- Wave! Wave! -- he may amount to something. 
 I must say when I first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in Bombay I never thought I'd be greeting you as a national hero. 
 I'm hardly that, Mr. Patel. 
 Oh, yes, you are. It's been two hundred years since an Indian has cocked a snoot at the British Empire and got away with it. And stop calling me Mr. Patel, you're not a junior clerk anymore. 
 (a beat; still hesitant) No. 
 The new Military Governor of the North West Province was on that ship. Too bad you came back Third Class -- he might have been impressed by a successful barrister who had outmaneuvered General Smuts. 
 (leadenly) Yes... I'm sure... 
 MRS. NEHRU (wittily) No, I leave practical matters to my husband and revolution to my son... 
 Mr. Jinnah, our joint host, member of Congress, and the leader of the Muslim League and Mr. Prakash, who I fear is awaiting trial for sedition and inducement to murder. 
 I have not actually pulled a trigger, Mr. Gandhi, I have simply written that if an Englishman kills an Indian for disobeying his law, then it is an Indian's duty to kill an Englishman for enforcing his law in a land that is not his. 
 It is a clever argument; I am not sure it will produce the end you desire. 
 (testingly) We hope you intend to join us in the struggle for Home Rule, Mr. Gandhi. 
 (a pause) I -- 
 May I? Mohan -- I would like you to meet someone. 
 He told the press he would support the British in the war. 
 (acidly) That's non-violence for you. 
 Is he a fool? 
 I'm not certain... But I wouldn't be surprised. 
 I lied to you, Mohan, when I told you I decided to come to South Africa to meet you. Professor Gokhale sent me. 
 We're trying to make a nation, Gandhi -- and the British keep trying to break us up into religions and principalities and "provinces." What you were writing in South Africa -- that's what we need here. 
 (a smile) I have much to learn about India. And I have to begin my practice again -- one needs money to run a journal. 
 Nonsense. (He turns to Charlie) Go on, Charlie. This is Indian talk -- we want none of you imperialists. 
 (a mock threat) All right -- I'll go and write my report to the Viceroy. 
 Go and find a pretty Hindu woman and convert her to Christianity -- that's as much mischief as you're allowed. 
 Forget your practice. India has many men with too much wealth -- it is their privilege to nourish the efforts of the few who can raise India from servitude and apathy. I will see to it -- you begin your journal. 
 I have little to say. India is an "alien" country to me. 
 Well, change that. Go and find India. Not what you see here, but the real India. You'll see what needs to be said. What we need to hear. 
 When I saw you in that tunic I knew... I knew I could die in peace. (A dying man's command) Make India proud of herself. 
 Clear the way! Get out of the way! 
 (at first distant, as from the hill) I ask you to pray for those who died. (Closer) For the English soldiers... (a murmur) who were doing what they thought was right. (Closer) And for the brave terrorists whose patriotism led them to do what was wrong. 
 It is not my law, it is the law of creation. We reap what we sow. Out there in the fields -- and in our hearts. Violence sows hatred, and the will to revenge. In them. And in us. 
 I agree with Jinnah. Now that the Americans are in, the war will end soon. The Germans are worn out as it is... (he rolls over, facing Nehru) and our first act should be to convene a Congress Party convention and demand independence. 
 And we must speak with one voice -- united. 
 (it reminds him) Ah -- we should invite Gandhi. What the devil has happened to him anyway? 
 He's "discovering" India. 
 (cynically) Which is a lot better than causing trouble where it matters. Invite him -- let him say his piece about South Africa -- and then let him slip into oblivion. 
 (quietly, private) Please! You're being foolish! 
 There's no room! And the air is lovely. 
 No violence, please. 
 Let me hang on with two hands or I will fall. 
 (amused, but disconcerted) What are you doing? 
 (grimly) Going nearer to God! 
 Charlie! Be careful!! 
 (desperately) Mohan -- !! 
 Let go! You'll kill him! 
 Let go! Let go! 
 Please, God, no! 
 (nods) Yes, yes, I'm a Christian. 
 GANDHI'S VOICE (alarmed) Charlie!! 
 INDIAN'S VOICE Pray to God, Sahib! Now is when it is best to be Hindu! 
 (gradually fading in) We were asked for toleration. We were asked for patience. Some gave it and some did not. Well, their war is over! And those of us who supported it, and those of us who refused must forget our differences! 
 And there can be no excuses from the British now! India wants Home Rule! India demands Home Rule!! 
 And let no one question that Mr. Jinnah speaks not just for the Muslims -- but for all India! 
 And now I'm going to introduce to you a man whose writings we are all becoming familiar with... a man who stood high in the esteem of our beloved Professor Gokhale... a man whose accomplishment in South Africa will always be remembered. Mr. Mohandas Gandhi. 
 (politely) Your journal has made a great impact. 
 I am flattered by Mr. Patel (His grin.) I would be even more flattered if what he said were true. 
 (loudly; he is away from the mike) But it's true! I -- I read it... often. 
 Since I returned from South Africa, I have traveled over much of India. And I know I could travel many more years and still only see a small part of it. 
 ...and yet already I know what we say here means nothing to the masses of our country. 
 Here we make speeches for each other -- and those English liberal magazines that may grant us a few lines. 
 But the people of India are untouched. Their politics are confined to bread and salt. 
 Illiterate they may be, but they are not blind. They see no reason to give their loyalty to rich and powerful men who simply want to take over the role of the British in the name of freedom. 
 This Congress tells the world it represents India. My brothers, India is seven hundred thousand "villages" not a few hundred lawyers in Delhi and Bombay. Until we stand in the fields with the millions who toil each day under the hot sun, we will not represent India -- nor will we ever be able to challenge the British as one nation. 
 Have you read his magazine? 
 No -- but I think I'm going to. 
 This can't be the way! 
 (a mocking quote) Yes, I'm sure this is the direction India is taking. 
 To think I almost got excited by Mr. Jinnah when all this was awaiting me. 
 We're looking for Mr. Gandhi! 
 Ah, you'll find him under the tree by the river. (He points off, then glances at the car.) You'd better leave the car -- the ground is rather soft. 
 Thank you . . . 
 (drolly, as he climbs out) Come on! I'm anxious to meet this new "force"! 
 I try to live like an Indian, as you see... it is stupid of course, because in our country it is the British who decide how an Indian lives -- what he may buy, what he may sell. And from their luxury in the midst of our terrible poverty they instruct us on what is justice and what is sedition. (He looks at them, a teasing but mordant grin.) So it is only natural that our best young minds assume an air of Eastern dignity, while greedily assimilating every Western weakness as quickly as they can acquire it. 
 (defensively) If we have Home Rule that will change. 
 Would you, please? 
 And why should the English grant us Home Rule? Here, we must take the peelings to the goats. 
 We only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. We've bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the British anywhere. 
 (surprised) I thought you were against fighting. 
 Just spread it around -- they like the new peelings mixed with the rotting ones. 
 Where there is injustice, I've always believed in fighting. (He looks at Nehru.) The question is do you fight to change things, or do you fight to punish. (His smile.) For myself, I have found that we are all such sinners we should leave punishment to God. And if we really want to change things there are better ways of doing it than by derailing trains or slashing someone with a sword. 
 The fire is ready. 
 You see, even here we live under tyranny. 
 (reflectively) I told you... 
 Hm... but look at him. Some "fighter"! I can see the British shaking now. 
 But it's the ink that is the most diffic -- 
 I am looking for Mr. Gandhi... 
 ...I've wanted to speak to you for a long time. 
 ...our crops... we can't sell them... We have no money... but the landlords take the same rent. 
 Clear the way there! Get out of the way! 
 Sir! Up here! 
 Give me a leg up, will you! 
 What the hell is it, Sergeant? 
 Jesus...! 
 (awed, a little frightened) What the hell is going on? 
 I don't know, sir. The agent says they got a telegram and it just said, he is coming... and gave the time of the train. 
 Who the hell is he? 
 I don't know, sir. 
 Who the devil are you? 
 My name is Gandhi. Mohandas K. Gandhi. 
 Well, whoever you are, we don't want you here. I suggest you get back on that train before it leaves the station. 
 (calmly, a glance at the crowd) They seem to want me. 
 Now look here. I'll put you under arrest if you'd prefer? 
 On what charge? 
 I don't want any trouble. 
 I am an Indian traveling in my own country. I see no reason for trouble. 
 Well, there'd better not be. 
 For years the landlords have ordered us to grow indigo, for dyeing the cloth. Always they took part of the crop as rent. 
 But now the English factories make cloth for everyone. No one wants our indigo. And the landlords won't take their share. They say we must pay our rent in cash. 
 What we could, we sold... The police have taken the rest. There is no food, we -- 
 I understand. (He examines his hands a moment.) The landlords are British? 
 What we can do... we will try to do. 
 Is all Champaran like this, Shukla? 
 Yes, Bapu... (He looks across the field.) The whole province... hundreds -- thousands. 
 CHARLIE'S VOICE Mohan -- ! 
 (he knows) Are you Mr. M. K. Gandhi? 
 Yes. 
 I'm sorry but you are under arrest. 
 I am not sorry at all. 
 (to the wicket keeper) Who did you say would be buying the drinks? 
 Oh, no -- 
 A It's two days' march! 
 (disgusted) God, and it's the best innings I've had since Oxford. 
 (dryly) India's full of grief, old man. 
 (firmly) I wish to see the prisoner, please. 
 (reluctantly) All right, Sergeant. 
 Charlie-- 
 (a somber grin) ...Shades of South Africa. 
 Not quite. They're only "holding me" until the Magistrate's hearing. Then it will be prison. 
 (sympathetically) Did they take your clothes? 
 These are my clothes now. 
 (affectionately) You always had a puritanical streak, Mohan. 
 (in a tone of defensiveness) If I want to be one with them, I have to live like them. 
 I think you do. (A smile.) But I thank God we all don't. 
 I'm sure your legs are quite as handsome as mine. 
 Ah, but my puritanism runs the another way. I'm far too modest for such a display. 
 Couldn't I be let in with the prisoner? I am a clergyman. 
 (a bit puzzled) They're calling you "Bapu." I thought it meant father. 
 (wistfully) It does. We must be getting old, Charlie. 
 What do you want me to do? 
 I think, Charlie, that you can help us most by taking that assignment you've been offered in Fiji. 
 I have to be sure -- they have to be sure -- that what we do can be done by Indians... alone. 
 But you know the strategy. The world is full of people who will despise what's happening here. It is their strength we need. Before you go, you could start us in the right direction. 
 I must leave from Calcutta, and soon. You'll have to say goodbye to Ba for me. 
 When I get the chance. 
 Well, I -- 
 There are no goodbyes for us, Charlie. Wherever you are, you will always be in my heart... 
 (whispered conference) I am going to clear the courtroom. 
 (politely) I'm not sure we'd be able to. And it is a first hearing, it's supposed to be public. And he's a lawyer. 
 (worried, angry) I don't know where they found the nerve for all this. 
 I'm sure I don't either, but the troops won't be here until tomorrow. 
 How the press get here before the military? 
 That English clergyman sent a number of telegrams yesterday afternoon. I understand one of them even went to the Viceroy. 
 You have been ordered out of the province on the grounds of disturbing the peace. 
 (defiantly) With respect, I refuse to go. 
 (sternly) Do you want to go to jail? 
 (not giving him an inch) As you wish. 
 (as much sternness as he can muster) All right. I will release you on bail of one hundred rupees until I reach a sentence. 
 I refuse to pay one hundred rupees. 
 Then I -- I will grant release without bail -- until I reach a decision. 
 A Gandhiji! -- Gandhiji! Mr. Gandhi! 
 Indeed. 
 I want to document, coldly, rationally, what is being done here. It may take months -- many, many months. 
 You will have to live with the peasants. (They nod.) I have nothing to pay you. (They only smile.) Hmm. 
 I don't know what this country is coming to! 
 But good God, man, you yourself raised the rent simply to finance a hunting expedition! 
 And some of these others -- (he gestures to the folders again) beatings, illegal seizures, demanding services without pay, even refusing them water! In India!... 
 Nobody knows what it is to try to get these people to work! 
 Well, you've make this half-naked whatever-he-is into an international hero. 
 "One lone man marching dusty roads armed only with honesty and a bamboo shaft doing battle with the British Empire." (He lowers the paper dismally; then the ultimate bitterness) At home children are writing "essays" about him. 
 I couldn't take another two years of him to save my life. 
 What do they want? 
 (reading precisely from a document) A rebate on rents paid. (Sir George huffs.) They are to be free to grow crops of their own choice. A commission -- part Indian -- to hear grievances. 
 (wearily) That would satisfy him?... 
 (a nod; then pointedly) And His Majesty's Government. It only needs your signature for the landlords. 
 It will be worth it to see the back of him. (A flourish at the end of his signature, then he stands.) We're too damn liberal. 
 Perhaps. But at least all this has made the Government see some sense about what men like Mr. Gandhi should be allowed, and what they should be denied. 
 (firmly) Things are going to change. 
 (in annoyance) Where is Mr. Gandhi? 
 (distastefully) He said he preferred to walk, sir. I followed him most of the way. He's just turned the corner. 
 The Prophet give me patience. 
 He came Third Class. 
 (with effort) My house is honored. 
 (he makes the pranam) The honor is ours. May I introduce Mr. Kallenbach. He's an old friend (anticipating Jinnah's objection) and his interest is in flowers. I presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked. 
 (the suave, but slightly ironic host) I'll send my gardener. I'm sure you'll have much to discuss. 
 Gentlemen -- the hero of Champaran. 
 Only the stubborn man of Champaran. 
 Mr. Patel you know. (Patel bows.) Mr. Maulana Azad -- a fellow Muslim... recently released from prison. 
 Mr. Kripalani. (A bow -- we have seen him at the Congress Conference.) And of course you know Mr. Nehru. 
 (a play on Jinnah's introduction) I am beginning to know Mr. Nehru. 
 (to business: Gandhi has been admitted to the power circle, he is not the power) Well, I've called you here because I've had a chance to see the new legislation. It's exactly what was rumored. Arrest without warrant. Automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious... 
 Your writings are specifically listed. 
 So much for helping them in the Great War... 
 (fire) There is only one answer to that. Direct action -- on a scale they can never handle! 
 I don't think so. 
 Terrorism would only justify their repression. And what kinds of leaders would it throw up? Are they likely to be the men we would want at the head of our country? 
 I've been catching up on my reading. 
 (coldly) I too have read Mr. Gandhi's writings, but I'd rather be ruled by an Indian terrorist than an English one. And I don't want to submit to that kind of law. 
 (to Nehru -- diplomatically -- but with a trace of condescension) I must say, Panditji, it seems to me it's gone beyond remedies like passive resistance. 
 (in the silence) If I may -- I, for one, have never advocated passive anything. 
 I am with Mr. Jinnah. We must never submit to such laws -- ever. And I think our resistance must be active and provocative. 
 I want to embarrass all those who wish to treat us as slaves. All of them. 
 Forgive my stupid illustration. But I want to change their minds -- not kill them for weaknesses we all possess. 
 And what "resistance" would you offer? 
 The law is due to take effect from April sixth. I want to call on the nation to make that a day of prayer and fasting. 
 You mean a general strike? 
 (his grin) I mean a day of prayer and fasting. But of course no work could be done -- no buses, no trains, no factories, no administration. The country would stop. 
 My God, it would terrify them... 
 (a wry smile) Three hundred fifty million people at prayer. Even the English newspapers would have to report that. And explain why. 
 But could we get people to do it? 
 (he is half sold already) Champaran stirred the whole country. (To Gandhi) They are calling you Mahatma -- the Great Soul. 
 Fortunately such news comes very slowly where I live. 
 (continuing, to the others) I think if we all worked to publicize it... all of the Congress... every avenue we know. 
 Perhaps I should have stayed in the garden and talked about the flowers. 
 Sir -- it's Mr. Kinnoch. 
 Yes? 
 (hesitant, stunned) Nothing... nothing is working, sir -- buses... trains... the markets... (Personal, incredulous) There's not even any civilian staff here, sir... Everything has stopped. 
 (curt, firm) Is it simply Delhi and Bombay? 
 No, sir -- Karachi, Calcutta, Madras, Bangalore. It's, it's total. 
 (the ultimate) The Army had to take over the telegraph or we'd be cut off from the world. 
 I can't believe it... 
 He's going to sell his own paper tomorrow in Bombay. They've called for a parade -- on Victoria Road. 
 (clenches his jaw and turns to the General) Arrest him! 
 Bapu... 
 You too... 
 (a real smile, but the same affection) It seems less formal than "Mahatma." 
 Since your arrest the riots have hardly stopped. Not big --; but they keep breaking out. I run to stop them... and Patel and Kripalani -- they are never at rest. But some English civilians have been killed, and the Army is attacking crowds with clubs -- and sometimes worse. 
 Maybe I'm wrong... maybe we're not ready yet. In South Africa the numbers were small... 
 The Government's afraid, and they don't know what to do. But they're more afraid of terrorists than of you. The Viceroy has agreed to your release if you will speak for non- violence. 
 (a sad smile) I've never spoken for anything else. 
 ...England is so powerful -- its army and its navy, all its modern weapons -- but when a great power like that strikes defenseless people it shows it brutality, its own weakness! Especially when those people do not strike back. (He holds aloft the clenched journal.) That is why the Mahatma begs us to take the course of non-violence! 
 ...If we riot, if we fight back, we become the vandals and they become the law! If we bear their blows, they are the vandals -- God and His law are on our... (He glances up.) side. 
 (soldiering on) ...We must have the courage to take their anger... 
 Port arms, Sergeant Major. 
 Load. 
 (almost to himself as he too is riveted) ...Our pain will be our victory. 
 Do we issue a warning, sir? 
 (stiffly) They've had their warning -- no meetings. 
 Sergeant Major -- 
 Fire! 
 Take your time. Take your time. 
 Corporal! 
 Over there. 
 General Dyer, is it correct that you ordered your troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowd? 
 (righteously) That is so. 
 One thousand five hundred and sixteen casualties with one thousand six hundred and fifty bullets. 
 My intention was to inflict a lesson that would have an impact throughout all India. 
 General, had you been able to take in the armored car, would you have opened fire with the machine gun? 
 I think, probably -- yes. 
 General, did you realize there were children -- and women -- in the crowd? 
 (a beat) I did. 
 But that was irrelevant to the point you were making? 
 That is correct. 
 Could I ask you what provision you made for the wounded? 
 (a moment, then firmly) I was ready to help any who applied. 
 General... how does a child shot with a 3-0-3 Enfield "apply" for help? 
 You must understand, gentlemen, that His Majesty's Government -- and the British people -- repudiate both the massacre and the philosophy that prompted it. 
 What I would like to do is to come to some compromise over the new civil legis -- 
 If you will excuse me, Your Excellency, it is our view that matters have gone beyond "legislation." 
 We think it is time you recognized that you are masters in someone else's home. (It chills, stiffens; Gandhi proceeds only an iota softer) Despite the best intentions of the best of you, you must, in the nature of things, humiliate us to control us. General Dyer is but an extreme example of the principle. It is time you left. 
 With respect, Mr. Gandhi, without British administration, this country would be reduced to chaos. 
 (patient, ironic) Mr. Kinnoch, I beg you to accept that there is no people on earth who would not prefer their own bad government to the "good" government of an alien power. 
 (indignantly, choked) My dear sir -- India is British! We're hardly an alien power! 
 Even if His Majesty could waive all other considerations, he has a duty to the millions of his Muslim subjects who are a minority in this realm. And experience has taught that his troops and his administration are essential in order to keep the peace. 
 All nations contain religious minorities. Like other countries, ours will have its problems. (Flat, irrevocable) But they will be ours -- not yours. 
 Yes... in the end you will walk out. Because one hundred thousand Englishmen simply cannot control three hundred fifty million Indians if the Indians refuse to co-operate. And that is what we intend to achieve -- peaceful, non-violent, non-co- operation. 
 Until you yourself see the wisdom of leaving... your Excellency. 
 Extraordinary little man! "Nonviolent, non-co-operation" -- for a moment I almost thought they were actually going to do something. 
 (thoughtfully) Yes -- but it would be wise to be very cautious for a time. The Anti- Terrorist Act will remain on the statutes, but on no account is Gandhi to be arrested. Whatever mischief he causes, I have no intention of making a martyr of him. 
 (simple, direct) ...but now something worse is happening. When Gandhiji and I were growing up, women wove their own cloth. But now there are millions who have no work because those who can buy all they need from England. I say with Gandhiji, there is no beauty in the finest cloth if it makes hunger and unhappiness. 
 My message tonight is the message I have given to your brothers everywhere. To gain independence we must prove worthy of it. 
 There must be Hindu-Muslim unity -- always. (A second finger.) Secondly, no Indian must be treated as the English treat us so we must remove untouchability from our lives, and from our hearts. 
 Third -- we must defy the British. 
 Not with violence that will inflame their will, but with firmness that will open their eyes. 
 English factories make the cloth -- that makes our poverty. (A reaction.) All those who wish to make the English see, bring me the cloth from Manchester and Leeds that you wear tonight, and we will light a fire that will be seen in Delhi -- and London! 
 And if, like me, you are left with only one piece of homespun -- wear it with dignity! 
 Excuse me -- just let me get out of your way, please. (Someone reaches for his bedroll and bag.) No, thank you, I'll manage. 
 (joyous -- it's been a long time) Ah, Herman! (Of the bags) No, no -- don't destroy my good intentions. I'm feeling guilty about traveling Second Class. 
 I do it as a friend -- and admirer -- not a servant. 
 Ah, in that case! 
 Maulana is made of sterner stuff. Our trains met in Bombay, but he's back there in that lot somewhere. 
 (shaking his head at it all) When I think what our "beloved Mahatma" asks, I don't know how he ever got such a hold over us. Is he back? 
 Yes. Now that things are moving he's going to write and only take part when it's necessary. 
 (to Patel) It was a Hindu child and it tried to wet on me. 
 Of course. A Muslim beef eater -- I'm only surprised he missed. 
 He was a she. 
 Ah, that explains it. (He grins.) Well, do I carry your luggage as penance or -- 
 There's another passenger -- a Miss Slade. (He turns automatically, as Patel and Azad do, toward the First Class section.) She's the daughter of an English admiral. (Patel and Azad look back at him in quick surprise. Kallenbach smiles.) She's been corresponding with him for a year. 
 And what does the daughter of an English admiral propose to do in an ashram -- sink us? 
 (quietly -- his manner) From the looks of the luggage, yes. 
 She wants to make her home with us -- and Gandhiji has agreed. 
 You'd be Mr. Kallenbach. 
 ...And you would be Miss Slade. 
 (proudly) I prefer the name Gandhiji has given me -- Mirabehn. 
 (of the car) It was a gift and it only worked a few weeks, but when Gandhi came home he struck on this idea. He calls it his ox-Ford. Comfortable -- and yet more our pace. 
 Might Mr. Nehru be there too? 
 (glibly) The irresponsible young Nehru is in prison -- again. Though there is a rumor that under pressure from your country, they will let him out -- again. 
 You can't know how closely we follow your struggle -- (to Patel personally) how many in England admired what you did in Bardoli. It must have taken enormous courage. 
 Well, in this country one must decide if one is more afraid of the government or Gandhi. (Of Azad, Kallenbach and himself) For us, it's Gandhi. 
 (a note of wonder) And you're German... 
 Yes. 
 And do you feel Indian? 
 No. 
 But you've been with him so long -- why? 
 ...I'd come to believe I would never meet a truly honest man. And then I met one. 
 Stop -- stop... 
 God gave you ten thumbs. 
 (morosely) Eleven. 
 Sardar... 
 What you've done is a miracle. You have made all India proud. 
 It must have been the only Non-violent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day. 
 (laughs) Not true! (He means himself.) The secret is mastering the urge. 
 He came Second Class. 
 Well, we can't expect miracles all the time. (Then to Azad, more soberly) Your news I understand is not so good. 
 No. 
 Come, come -- you will be my daughter... 
 ...but then some rioting broke out between Hindus and Muslims -- violent, terrible... 
 Whether it was provoked... (he shrugs, a hint of suspicion) But it gave them an excuse to impose martial law throughout Bengal. (He looks at Gandhi, shaking his head grimly.) Some of the things the military have done... 
 Is the campaign weakening? 
 The marches and protests are bigger if anything but with the censorship here (a nod toward Mirabehn) they know more in England than we do, and it saps the courage to think you may be suffering alone. 
 They are not alone. And martial law only shows how desperate the British are. 
 Is that homespun? Or cotton from Leeds? 
 I -- I sent for it, from here. I dyed it myself. 
 What do the workers in England make of what we're doing? It must have produced hardship. 
 It has. But you'd be surprised. They understand -- they really do. It's not the workers you have to worry about. 
 Good. (A glance toward Ba.) Ba will have to teach you to spin too. 
 I would rather march. 
 First spin. Let the others march for a time. 
 First lesson: To march, wear shoes, to spin, do not. 
 I'll teach you all our foolishness, and you must teach me yours. 
 Home Rule! Long live Gandhi! Buy Indian! Long live Gandhi! 
 I'll stuff your damn mouth with it! 
 Leave him alone -- he wasn't harming you! 
 TAIL-ENDERS Help! Help us! as they try to scramble away from the attack. Out of shot we can still hear the disappearing chant: "Home Rule! Long live Gandhi!" 
 TAIL-ENDER (screaming) Help! Help us! 
 Hey -- 
 PATEL'S VOICE That's one bit of news they haven't censored. 
 JINNAH'S VOICE Oh, it's all over the world... (ironically) India's "non-violence." 
 (bleakly) What can we do? 
 (sepulchrally) We must end the campaign. 
 After what they did at the massacre -- it's only an eye for an eye. 
 (he hasn't moved; the same tone) An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind. (Now he looks up at them.) We must stop. 
 (a baffled smile) Gandhiji -- do you know the sacrifices people have made? 
 We would never get the same commitment again -- ever. 
 If we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed I want no part of it. 
 (pleading) It was one incident. 
 (quietly) Tell that to the families of the policemen who died. 
 Bapu -- the whole nation is marching. They wouldn't stop, even if we asked them to. 
 I will ask. And I will fast as penance for my part in arousing such emotions -- and I will not stop until they stop. 
 (disgustedly) God! You can be sure the British won't censor that! They'll put it on every street corner. 
 But -- but Gandhiji people are aroused... they won't stop. 
 If I die, perhaps they will... 
 
 (softly) I must get ready for evening prayers. Mirabehn is here. 
 I've brought your drinking water. May I turn you? 
 There is a little lemon juice in it. That is all. 
 Herman has gone to meet Pandit Nehru -- there was a telegram. Almost everywhere it has stopped. 
 When it is everywhere, then my prayers will be answered. 
 Do you find me stubborn? 
 (her own honesty) I don't know... I know you are right. I don't know that this is right. 
 (hoarse, strained) When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. 
 There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end they always fall. Think of it -- always... When you are in doubt that that is God's way, the way the world is meant to be... think of that. 
 (the paternal smile) And then -- try to do it His way. (A tear runs down Mirabehn's face. She touches his shoulder. Gandhi just leans his head back in exhaustion.) And now -- could I have another feast of lemon juice? 
 Panditji -- come in. 
 Jinnah, Patel, all of Congress has called for the end of non-co- operation. There's not been one demonstration. All over India people are praying that you will end the fast. They're walking in the streets, offering garlands to the police -- and to British soldiers. 
 (croaked) Perhaps -- perhaps I have overdone it. 
 Good morning, Bapu! 
 Good morning. (Of the goat) Don't let her go. If she bumps me I am done for. 
 Don't worry. I milk her every day, she's not -- 
 (a beat) Sedition. 
 (it is too absurd) You can't be serious! This man has just stopped a revolution! 
 (uncomfortably; he knows) That's as may be. I only know what I am charged to perform. 
 I don't believe it -- even the British can't be that stupid! 
 Panditji -- please, help me. 
 You must help Herman -- and Ba. (He releases her, and says more loudly to the others) I have been on many trips -- it is just another trip. 
 I am at your command. 
 (to Nehru) If there is one protest -- one riot -- a disgrace of any kind, I will fast again. 
 (and now he smiles -- Gandhi to Nehru, special) I know India is not ready for my kind of independence. If I am sent to jail, perhaps that is the best protest our country can make at this time. And if it helps India, I have never refused to take His Majesty's hospitality. 
 Call the prisoner to the bar. 
 ..."Non-co-operation has one aim: the overthrow of the Government. Sedition must become our creed. We must give no quarter, nor can we expect any." (He looks up at Gandhi.) Signed M. K. Gandhi, in your journal Young India, dated twenty-second March of this year. Do you deny writing it? 
 Not at all. (To the judge) And I will save the Court's time, M'Lord, by stating under oath that to this day I believe non-co-operation with evil is a duty. And that British rule of India is evil. 
 The Prosecution rests, M'Lord. 
 I take it you will conduct your own defense, Mr. Gandhi. 
 I have no defense, My Lord. I am guilty as charged. (Then testingly) And if you truly believe in the system of law you administer in my country, you must inflict on me the severest penalty possible. 
 It is impossible for me to ignore that you are in a different category from any person I have ever tried, or am likely to try. 
 (a long beat) It is nevertheless my duty to sentence you -- to six years' imprisonment. 
 (a personal statement, not a real hope) If however His Majesty's Government could -- at some later date -- see fit to reduce that term, no one would be better pleased than I. 
 Well, he certainly wasn't forgotten! And as soon as he got out he was back tramping the country, preaching non-violence and demanding a free India. Everybody knows another showdown's coming -- but when, and over what -- 
 Well, I read you account of that crowd in Calcutta and that he was twisting the Lion's tail again... 
 (falteringly) ...and I knew something had to give. And I was determined to be here when it did. 
 How does a reporter in Central America learn that Gandhi was born in Porbandar anyway? 
 Oh, I've been a Gandhi buff for a long time. 
 He certainly makes good copy. (A laugh.) The other day Winston Churchill called him "that half-naked Indian fakir." 
 I met him once. 
 You mean Gandhi? 
 (nods) Back in South Africa... (reflectively) long time ago. 
 What was he like? 
 Lots of hair... and a little like a college freshman -- trying to figure everything out. 
 Well, he must've found some of the answers... 
 (a step forward) "In every worthy wish of yours, I shall be your helpmate." 
 (a step) "Take a fourth step, that we may be ever full of joy." 
 (a step) "I will ever live devoted to you, speaking words of love and praying for your happiness." 
 "Take a fifth step, that we may serve the people." 
 "I will follow close behind you and help to serve the people." 
 "Take a sixth step, that we may follow our vows in life." 
 "I will follow you in all our vows and duties." 
 (a last step) "Take the seventh step, that we may ever live as friends." 
 "You are my best friend... my highest guru, and my sovereign lord." 
 Then I put a sweetened wheat cake in her mouth. 
 And I put a sweetened wheat cake in his mouth. 
 And with that we were pronounced man and wife. (Solemnly) We were both thirteen... 
 It's beautiful. 
 Even as a boy I thought so. 
 Trying to keep track of you is making me change all my sleeping habits. 
 And you've come all this way because you think something is going to happen? 
 Hm. (Then weightedly) Is it? 
 Perhaps. I've come here to think about it. 
 (musing) Do you remember much of South Africa? 
 A great deal. 
 I've traveled so far -- and thought so much. (He smiles in self- mockery, and turns toward the city.) As you can see, my city was a sea city -- always filled with Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs and Jews and Persians. (He looks at Walker.) The temple where you were yesterday is of my family's sect, the Pranami. It was Hindu of course but the priests used to read from the Muslim Koran and the Hindu Gita, moving from one to the other as though it mattered not at all which book was read as long as God was worshipped. 
 When I was a boy I used to sing a song in that temple: "A true disciple knows another's woes as his own. He bows to all and despises none... Earthly possessions hold him not." Like all boys I said the words, not thinking of what they meant or how they might be influencing me. (He looks at Walker... then out to the sea again, shaking his head.) I've traveled so far... and all I've done is come back home. 
 You know what you're going to do. 
 It would have been very uncivil of me to let you make such a long trip for nothing. 
 Where are you going? 
 I'm going back to the ashram (then firmly) and then I'm going to prove to the new Viceroy that the King's writ no longer runs in India! 
 Salt? 
 Yes, sir. He is going to march to the sea and make salt. 
 All right -- he's breaking the law. What will he be depriving us of, two rupees of salt tax? 
 It's not a serious attack on the revenue, sir. Its primary importance is symbolic. 
 Don't patronize me, Charles. 
 No, sir. I -- in this climate, sir, nothing lives without water -- or salt. Our absolute control of it is a control on the pulse of India. 
 And that's the basis of this "Declaration of Independence"? 
 (pointedly) He's going to arrive at the sea on the anniversary of the massacre at Amritsar. 
 General Edgar is right -- ignore it. Mr. Gandhi will find it's going to take a great deal more than a pinch of salt to bring down the British Empire. 
 (to Nehru) ...the real test will come if I am arrested. If there is violence we lose all our moral advantage. This time it mustn't happen. 
 We're not beginners anymore. We've been trained by a strict sergeant major. 
 If I'm taken, Maulana is to lead the march. If he is arrested, Patel, then Kripalani, then yourself. 
 You should be relaxing. 
 I'm sure I'm fit for at least five hundred miles. 
 You should ride the pony. It is not necessary to walk to prove the point. 
 I have two of them bossing me now. 
 We must get these to the printer. (He looks down at Gandhi.) I know it will succeed. Even my mother is prepared to march. 
 And Jinnah? 
 (a beat) He's waiting. He's not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you think. 
 (smiles confidently) Wait and see... wait and see... 
 (of the press) You've done me a great service. 
 (a grin, then a play on Gandhi's words to him) It would have been uncivil of me to have let you make such a long trip for nothing. 
 Is it over if they arrest you now? 
 Not if they arrest me -- or a thousand -- or ten thousand. (He looks at Walker.) It is not only generals who know how to plan campaigns. 
 What if they don't arrest you? What if they don't react at all? 
 Do you still have your notebook? (Walker fumbles for it; Gandhi goes right on talking.) The function of a civil resister is to provoke response. And we will continue to provoke until they respond, or they change the law. They are not in control -- we are. That is the strength of civil resistance. 
 What'd he say? 
 (wryly) He said he's in charge... 
 Are you going to walk all the way? 
 (a weary grin) My name is Walk-er. And I intend to report it the way it is. 
 (to himself) "My name is Walk-er"... 
 We've come to join the march. What do we do? 
 (bluntly) Be sure you're awake in the morning. (It comes from a knowledge of students. He smiles and nods off.) Find a place to sleep. 
 We're being made fools of around the world! 
 We're required to stop it. (He stands, his mind made up.) And stop it we will. (He looks at the senior police officer.) I don't care if we fill the jails, stop it. Arrest anyone, any rank -- except Gandhi. We'll cut his strength from under him. And then we'll deal with the Mahatma. 
 Oh, my God! 
 Right -- jump to it -- clear this beach! 
 No violence, Zia! 
 (repeating quietly, as though to Zia) ...no violence. 
 You're Nehru -- 
 I'm an illegal trader in salt. 
 (impatiently) Who's leading them? 
 (shrewdly) Has there been any violence? 
 (dryly) I believe the question was intended to discover if there was any violence of their side. 
 (again the Machiavellian mind) Perhaps if we arrested Gandhi, it might -- 
 (to senior police officer) He's addressed this letter directly to you, has he? 
 (calmly) Thank him for his letter, and put him in jail. 
 And Fields, keep that salt works open. 
 I would like admission to the Works. 
 Last night they took Gandhiji from us. They expect us to lose heart or to fight back. We will not lose heart, we will not fight back. In his name we will be beaten. As he has taught us, we will not raise a hand. "Long live Mahatma Gandhi!" 
 (into the phone) Hello! Ed! Ed! Goddammit, don't cut me off! (Then suddenly he's through.) Ed! Okay -- yeah -- right. 
 "They walked, with heads up, without music, or cheering, or any hope of escape from injury or death." (His voice is taut, harshly professional.) "It went on and on and on. Women carried the wounded bodies from the ditch until they dropped from exhaustion. But still it went on." 
 "Whatever moral ascendance the West held was lost today. India is free for she has taken all that steel and cruelty can give, and she has neither cringed nor retreated." (On Walker close. His sweating, blood and dirt-stained face near tears.) "In the words of his followers, 'Long live Mahatma Gandhi.' " 
 EXTERIOR - DAY 
 I am aware that I must have given you much cause for irritation, your Excellency. I hope it will not stand between us as men. 
 Mr. Gandhi, I have instructions to request your attendance at an All- Government Conference in London to discuss -- to discuss the possible Independence of India. 
 I think our first duty is to recognize that there is not one India, but several: a Hindu India, a Muslim India, and India of Princely States. And all these must be respected -- and cared for -- not just one. 
 (to Walker) Do I speak into that? 
 Are they ready? Do I start? 
 I am glad to speak to America where so many friends exist that I know only in my heart. 
 GANDHI'S VOICE (continuing over all) I think your interest and the world's has fallen on India, not only because we are struggling for freedom, but because the way we are doing so is unique as far as history shows us. Here in Europe mighty nations are, it seems, already contemplating another war, though I think they, and all the world, are sick to death of bloodspilling. All of us are seeking a way out, and I flatter myself that perhaps the ancient land of India will offer such a way. If we are to make progress we must not repeat history, but make history. And I myself will die before I betray our belief that love is a stronger weapon than hate. 
 It is only a sprain. Take her to the river, and we'll make a mud-pack for her. Go -- I won't be long. 
 So the truth is, after all your travels, all your efforts, they've stopped the campaign and sent you home empty-handed. 
 They are only clinging to old dreams (looks up from his spinning to Jinnah) and trying to split us in the old way. But the will has gone -- Independence will drop like a ripe apple. The only question is when (another glance at Jinnah) and how. 
 I say when is now -- and we will determine how. 
 Precisely. 
 They are preparing for war. I will not support it, but I do not intend to take advantage of their danger. 
 (blithely, but to the point) That's when you take advantage. 
 No. That is just another way of striking back. We have come a long way together with the British. When they leave we want to see them off as friends. (He starts down the steps and heads for the river.) And now, if you'll excuse me, there is something I must attend to. 
 (resignedly) "Mud packs." 
 Mr. Gandhi -- sir. 
 I have instructions to inquire as to the subject of your speech tonight. 
 The value of goat's milk in daily diet. (Into his eyes) But you can be sure I will also speak against war. 
 I'm sorry, sir. That can't be allowed. 
 It's all right, Mrs. Gandhi. I have orders to return with you and your companion to the Mahatma's ashram. 
 If you take my husband, I intend to speak in his place. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Stop! Wait a minute! 
 
 It was the Aga Khan's palace, but they've turned it into a prison. 
 (shouting over the motor) They've got most of the leading Congress politicians in this one. But Nehru and some others are over in Dehra Dun. Your timing's pretty lucky. They had your Mr. Gandhi cut off from the press but last month his personal secretary died and they've let up on the restrictions. 
 Yes, I have heard of Life Magazine. (A smile.) I have even heard of Margaret Bourke- White. But I don't know why either should be interested in an old man sitting in prison when the world is blowing itself to pieces. 
 BOURKE-WHITE (a beat -- and she smiles) You're the only man I know who makes his own clothes. 
 Ah, but for me that's not much of an accomplishment. 
 No -- prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. My only worry is what shape it will take. Jinnah has -- 
 BOURKE-WHITE Stop! 
 BOURKE-WHITE Now go on -- just as you were. 
 BOURKE-WHITE (coaching) "...what shape it will take." Jinnah has -- what? 
 (at first disconcerted, but then flowing) Jinnah has -- has cooperated with the British. It has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the Muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly Hindu. (He stops, lowering his head gravely.) That I find hard to bear -- even in prison. 
 BOURKE-WHITE (archly, but emphatically of the spinning) I do not see it as the solution of the twentieth century's problems! 
 I have a friend who keeps telling me how much it costs him to keep me in poverty. 
 (a bit more seriously) But I know happiness does not come with things -- even twentieth century things. It can come from work, and pride in what you do. (He looks at her steadily.) It will not necessarily be "progress" for India if she simply imports the unhappiness of the West. 
 BOURKE-WHITE But do you really believe you could use non-violence against someone like Hitler? 
 (a thoughtful pause) Not without defeats -- and great pain. (He looks at her.) But are there no defeats in this war -- no pain? (For a moment the thought hangs, and then Gandhi takes their hands back to the spinning.) What you cannot do is accept injustice. From Hitler -- or anyone. You must make the injustice visible -- be prepared to die like a soldier to do so. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Is my finger supposed to be wrapped around that? 
 (laughs) No. That is what you get for distracting me. 
 BOURKE-WHITE What do you expect when you talk like that? 
 (trying to unravel the mess) I expect you to show as much patience as I am now. 
 Every enemy is a human being -- even the worst of them. And he believes he is right and you are a beast. (And now a little smile.) And if you beat him over the head you will only convince him. But you suffer, to show him that he is wrong, your sacrifice creates an atmosphere of understanding -- if not with him, then in the hearts of the rest of the community on whom he depends. 
 If you are right, you will win -- after much pain. (He looks at her, then smiles in his own ironic way.) If you are wrong, well, then, only you will suffer the blows. 
 
 ...not at all. Bapu has always said there were two kinds of slavery in India -- one for women, one for the untouchables -- and he has always fought against both. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Does it rankle, being separated from him this way? 
 Yes... but we see each other in the day. 
 BOURKE-WHITE (delicately) But not at night... 
 In Hindu philosophy the way to God is to free yourself of possessions -- and the passions that inflame to anger and jealousy. (A smile.) Bapu has always struggled to find the way to God. 
 BOURKE-WHITE You mean he -- he gave up -- (how to phrase it, finally) married life. 
 Four times he tried -- and failed. (Mirabehn and Bourke- White grin. The older woman gives a wistful smile.) But then he took a solemn vow... 
 BOURKE-WHITE And he has never broken it? 
 (a beat) Not yet. 
 She's had a coronary throm -- a serious heart failure. She wouldn't survive a trip. It's best to leave her -- and hope. 
 It is time for my walk -- I won't be long. 
 We have come to crown victory with friendship -- to assist at the birth of an independent India and to welcome her as an equal member in the British Commonwealth of Nations. (A little smile.) I am here to see that I am the last British Viceroy ever to have the honor of such a reception. 
 I don't give a damn for the independence of India! I am concerned about the slavery of Muslims! 
 I will not sit by to see the mastery of the British replaced by the mastery of the Hindus! 
 (patiently, not yet believing it can't be settled) Muslim and Hindu are the right and left eye of India. No one will be slave, no one master. 
 The world is not made of Mahatma Gandhis. (He looks at Nehru and Patel.) I am talking about the real world. 
 The "real India" has Muslims and Hindus in every village and every city! How do you propose to separate them? 
 Where there is a Muslim majority -- that will be Pakistan. The rest is your India. 
 (a forced patience) Mohammed -- the Muslims are in a majority on two different sides of the country. 
 (acidly) Let us worry about Pakistan -- you worry about India. 
 Gentlemen, perhaps we should recommence. 
 (with others) Death to Jinnah! Death to Jinnah! 
 Thank God, they've stopped. 
 I'm your grand uncle but I can still walk either of you into the ground and I don't need to be pampered this way! 
 Finish your quota of spinning. 
 Bapu -- please. Don't do it! 
 (impatiently) What do you want me not to do? Not to meet with Mr. Jinnah? (Fiercely) I am a Muslim! (He stares at them, then relents.) And a Hindu, and a Christian and a Jew -- and so are all of you. When you wave those flags and shout you send fear into the hearts of your brothers. 
 This is not the India I want. Stop it. For God's sake, stop it. 
 Now, please, if you've finished your prayers, could we begin with business. 
 My dear Jinnah, you and I are brothers born of the same Mother India. If you have fears, I want to put them to rest. (Jinnah listens impatiently, skeptically. Gandhi just glances in Nehru's direction.) I am asking Panditji to stand down. I want you to be the first Prime Minister of India (Jinnah raises an eyebrow of interest.) -- to name your entire cabinet, to make the head of every government department a Muslim. 
 Bapu, for me, and the rest, (his hand gestures to Patel and Azad) if that is what you want, we will accept it. But out there (he indicates the streets) already there is rioting because Hindus fear you are going to give too much away. 
 If you did this, no one could control it. No one. 
 It is your choice. Do you want an independent India and an independent Pakistan? Or do you want civil war? 
 BOURKE-WHITE Aren't you being a little overprotective? 
 Tomorrow. Tomorrow photograph him. 
 BOURKE-WHITE I came all this way because I believed the picture of Independence Day was of him here alone. 
 It is violence, and the fear of violence, that have made today what it is... Give him the dignity of his grief. 
 BOURKE-WHITE And while we're sitting here feeding goats, what will happen to all the Muslims in India and the Hindus in Pakistan? 
 Gandhi will pray for them... 
 (fast, curt) No. There just are not that many troops. 
 What's he to do? 
 What he can! 
 He was right. It's insane -- anything would have been better. 
 Have you found him? 
 He's in Noakhali. 
 He's tramping from village to village -- no police, no troops -- trying to quell the madness single-handedly. (He sighs, half in admiration, half in hopeless exasperation at the old man's audacity.) Maulana has gone to bring him back. 
 NEHRU'S VOICE (dull, lifeless) What you have done in Noakhali is a miracle, Bapu, a miracle, but millions are on the move -- millions. There is no way to stop it... and no one can count the dead. 
 In Calcutta it's like civil war. The Muslims rose and there was a bloodbath, and now the Hindus are taking revenge -- and if we can't stop it there'll be no hope for the Hindus left in Pakistan. 
 ...an eye for an eye making the whole world blind. 
 Aren't there any troops to spare? 
 (tense, fragile) Nothing -- nothing. The divisions in Bombay and Delhi can hardly keep the peace now. And each fresh bit of news creates another wave of  mad... ness. 
 Could we cut all news off? I know -- 
 Bapu -- please. Where are you going. 
 (sounding like an old man) I don't want to hear more... 
 (impatiently) We need your help! 
 There is nothing I can give. 
 Where are you going? 
 Calcutta. 
 Sir, please, I don't have the men to protect you -- not in a Muslim house. Not this quarter. 
 I am staying with the friend of a friend. 
 A There he is! 
 Because forgiveness is the gift of the brave. 
 To hell with you, Gandhi!! 
 (to the youth) Go -- do as your mother and father would wish you to do. 
 I have lived a lifetime. If I had shunned death -- or feared it -- I would not be here. Nor would you be concerned for me. (He lets it sink in then he takes the commissioner's arm and moves back toward the center of the roof.) Leave me -- and take your men. (An understanding touch of the arm.) You have more important things to worry about. 
 Bapu... Allah be with you... 
 And with you. (He touches her wrinkled hand.) Pray... I cannot help you -- pray... pray. 
 (angrily) No! There will not be a Hindu Police and a Muslim Police. There is one police! 
 Why must I read news like this in the paper? 
 Tell Patel. Arrange a plane. We will go -- Friday. 
 Bapu... 
 Sardar... (He looks him over.) You have gained weight. You must join me in the fast. 
 (wittily, warmly) If I fast I die. If you fast people go to all sorts of trouble to keep you alive. 
 Bapu, forgive me -- I've cheated. I could have come earlier. But your fast has helped. These last days people's minds have begun to turn to this bed -- and away from last night's atrocity. But now it is enough. 
 All that has happened is that I've grown a little thinner. 
 Tomorrow five thousand Muslim students of all ages are marching here in Calcutta -- for peace. (The real point) And five thousand Hindu students are marching with them. It is all organized. 
 I'm glad -- but it will not be enough. 
 Bapu, you are not so young anymore. 
 Don't worry for me -- death will be a deliverance. (There is water in his eyes, but his words have the weight of a man truly determined to die.) I cannot watch the destruction of all I have lived for. 
 Bapu... 
 Each night before I sleep, I read a few words from the Gita and the Koran, and the Bible... (we intercut with Bourke-White and those on the roof watching) tonight I ask you to share these thoughts of God with me. 
 (the books are there, but he does it from memory of course) I will begin with the Bible where the words of the Lord are, "Love thy neighbor as thyself"... and then our beloved Gita which says, "The world is a garment worn by God, thy neighbor is in truth thyself"... and finally the Holy Koran, "We shall remove all hatred from our hearts and recline on couches face to face, a band of brothers." 
 "Lead Kindly Light, amidst the circling gloom..." 
 GANDHI/MIRABEHN "The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead thou me on..." 
 (hysterically) Who dares say such things! Who?! (And he is running at them and they spread in fear.) Come! Kill me first! Come! Where are you?! Kill me first! 
 His pulse is very irregular -- the kidneys aren't functioning. 
 Bapu, I have brought Mr. Suhrawardy. It was he who called on the Muslims to rise; he is telling them now to go back to their homes, to lay down their arms. 
 (personally) Think what you can do by living -- that you cannot do by dying. 
 (pleadingly) What do you want? 
 (a moment) That the fighting will stop -- that you make me believe it will never start again. 
 ...Sometimes it is when you are quite without hope and in utter darkness that God comes to the rescue. Gandhiji is dying because of our madness. Put away your "revenge." What will be gained by more killing? Have the courage to do what you know is right. For God's sake, let us embrace like brothers... 
 It is our promise. We stop. It is a promise. 
 Go -- try -- God by with you. 
 Eat. 
 Eat! I am going to hell -- but not with your death on my soul. 
 Only God decides who goes to hell... 
 (stiffening, aggressive) I -- I killed a child... (Then an anguished defiance) I smashed his head against a wall. 
 (in a fearful whisper) Why? Why? 
 (tears now -- and wrath) They killed my son -- my boy! 
 The Muslims killed my son... they killed him. 
 I know a way out of hell. 
 Find a child -- a child whose mother and father have been killed. A little boy -- about this high. 
 ...and raise him -- as your own. 
 Only be sure... that he is a Muslim. And that you raise him as one. 
 (gently, exhaustedly) Go -- go. God bless you... 
 I wouldn't have believed it, Mr. Gupta. 
 Sergeant, it's a bloody miracle... 
 Bapu, there's been no fighting -- anywhere. It has stopped -- the madness has stopped. 
 It is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man. 
 No... no. In every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other. 
 Everywhere. 
 Maulana, my friend, could I have some orange juice... Then you and I will take a piece of bread together... 
 You see, Bapu, it is not difficult. I have fasted only a few hours and I accomplished what you could not do in as many days. 
 That is how you eat muli. 
 (to the photographer) I'm not sure I want to be remembered that way. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Don't worry, with luck you may not be. 
 No, he'll be remembered for tempting fate. 
 Mickey Mouse. 
 BOURKE-WHITE You really are going to Pakistan, then? (Gandhi shrugs, and she chides too) You are a stubborn man. 
 (a grin, in the mood of their "flirtation") I'm simply going to prove to Muslims there, and Hindus here, that the only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts -- and that's where all our battles ought to be fought. 
 BOURKE-WHITE And what kind of a warrior have you been in that warfare? 
 Not a very good one. That's why I have so much tolerance for the other scoundrels of the world. 
 Ask Panditji to -- to consider what we've discussed. 
 (of the photographs) Enough. 
 BOURKE-WHITE (a plea) One more. 
 You're a temptress. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Just an admirer... 
 Nothing's more dangerous, especially for an old man. 
 BOURKE-WHITE There's a sadness in him. 
 He thinks he's failed. 
 BOURKE-WHITE Why? My God, if anything's proved him right, it's what's happened these last months... 
 I am blinded by my love of him, but I think when we most needed it, he offered the world a way out of madness. But he doesn't see it... and neither does the world. 
 Allah be with you. 
 (to someone) Brother, Bapu is already late for prayers. 
 Oh, God... oh, God... 
 MANU/ABHA Bapu! Bapu! 
 GANDHI'S VOICE 
