 
 
 
 Reports are coming in from all over the Empire -- from all over the world. The Government have not yet issued a statement, but there seems to be no question that there actually is a large, unidentified object circling the earth at incredible speed. 
 (staccato with excitement) We still don't know what it is or where it's from –- but we do know there's something there. It's been tracked around the world by radar traveling at a rate of four thousand miles an hour. 
 They're here! They're here! 
 
 I want to speak to the President. (listens for a moment) I'm sorry -- you'll have to interrupt him. 
 Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. We bring you this special radio-television broadcast to give you the latest information on the landing of the "space ship" in Washington. 
 Government and Defense Department officials are concerned by reports of panic in several large Eastern cities. I am authorized to assure you that so far there is no reasonable cause for alarm. The rumors of invading armies and mass destruction are based on hysteria and are absolutely false. I repeat -- these rumors are absolutely false! 
 
 The ship, designed for travel outside the earth's atmosphere, landed in Washington today at 3:47 p.m., Eastern Standard Time. We still don't know where it came from, but I can reveal that military leaders are considering two possibilities; that it came from some unfriendly power here on earth -- or that it actually arrived from another planet. 
 PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) The ship is resting exactly where it landed two hours ago, and there has been no sign of life from inside it. 
 PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) Troops have been rushed from Fort Myer and they have formed a cordon around the ship. 
 PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) They are supported by machine guns, tanks and artillery. 
 PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) Behind police lines, there is a large crowd of curiosity seekers. 
 PEARSON'S VOICE (over scene) As you can see for yourself, the Army has taken every precaution to meet whatever the situation may require. Every eye -- every weapon -- is trained on the ship. It's been this way for two hours and the tension-- 
 Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen! I think I see something moving! 
 
 We have come to visit you in peace -- and with good will. 
 Gort! Deglet ovrosco! 
 It was a gift. For your President. (glances at the broken object ruefully) With this he could have studied life on other planets. 
 (to the lieutenants) Is he all right? 
 Send for an ambulance. Get him to Walter Reed Hospital right away. 
 Yes, sir. 
 (to General) We informed the White House over an hour ago. 
 Excuse me. (to the Colonel) What about the reporters, Colonel? They're swarming all over the lobby. 
 Yes, sir. (glancing down the corridor) Mr. Harley's here from the White House. 
 General -- 
 My name is Harley -- Secretary to the President (Klaatu continues to study him silently) I've been told that you speak our language -- that your name is Mr. Klaatu. 
 (coolly) Just Klaatu. 
 The President asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. We all feel-- 
 (evenly) Sit down, Mr. Harley. 
 I'm sure I don't have to point out that your arrival was something of a surprise. (getting a little smile from Klaatu, he is encouraged to do some fishing) Had you been traveling long? 
 About five months -- your months. 
 You must have come a long way. 
 About 250 million of your miles. 
 Naturally we're very curious to know where it is you come from. 
 (easily; he's a diplomat, too) From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbors. 
 It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor. 
 I'm afraid, in the present situation you'll have to learn to think that way. 
 (eyebrows raised) The present situation? 
 I mean the reasons for my coming here. 
 (his eagerness apparent) We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it? 
 I'd be glad to. (noticing that Harley is settling himself expectantly) Not now, of course -- with you alone. 
 Perhaps you'd rather discuss it personally with the President-- 
 (somewhat sharply) This is not a personal matter, Mr. Harley. It concerns all the people on your planet. 
 (Startled by the scope of this statement) I -- I'm not sure I understand-- 
 I want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the Earth. 
 (shocked and perturbed by this notion) I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's -- it's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations -- the time involved -- the enormous distances. 
 (coolly) I traveled 250 million miles. What about your United Nations? 
 (Surprised and a little puzzled) You know about the United Nations? 
 We've been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. That's how we learned your languages. Lately, we've been getting your television also. 
 (wryly) You must have a rather strange impression of us. 
 (smiling) The first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was wrestle. 
 I'm sure you recognize from our broad- casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. Surely you would agree-- 
 (evenly) I am not concerned, Mr. Harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. I consider that to be your business -- not mine. 
 I was only hoping to make you understand. 
 (sternly, impressively) My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth. 
 (uncomfortably) Perhaps if you could explain a little-- 
 I intend to explain. To all the nations -- simultaneously. (his manner precludes opposition) How do we proceed, Mr. Harley? 
 (after a long thoughtful moment) We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly... But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the nations. 
 Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State? 
 (helplessly, but patiently) Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same table. 
 I don't want to resort to threats, Mr. Harley. I simply tell you bluntly that the future of your planet is at stake... I suggest you transmit that message to the nations of the Earth. 
 I will make that recommendation to the President. (he picks up his brief case and hat) I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the results. 
 (with a half-smile) Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are. 
 I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have. (he bows) Goodnight, sir. 
 (raising his helmet) No, sir. (shaking his head in annoyance) Beats me, General. I saw that ramp come out of the side of the ship -- right here. Now I can't even find a crack! 
 (discouraged) We've tried everything from a blowtorch to a diamond drill. 
 He's made out of the same stuff. 
 No sir. Not an inch 
 This is the toughest material I ever saw, General. For hardness and strength, it's out of this world. 
 And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere -- similar pressure. (nodding, toward Klaatu's room) How old do you think he is? 
 (smiling) He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventy-eight. 
 Their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty. 
 He says their medicine is that much more advanced. (the major stares at him blankly) He was very nice about it. But he made me feel like a third-class witch doctor. 
 What are you going to do with it? 
 Afternoon, gentlemen. 
 Good afternoon. (surprised not to find him in bed) I'm glad to see you up and around. 
 Thank you... Have you any news? 
 Not very good news, I'm afraid. (digs into his briefcase for some papers) The President accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night. (grimly) Let me read you some of the replies. (he selects a cable and reads) "The Premier wishes to inform the Government of the United States that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the President unless the meeting is held in Moscow." (with a grimly-pointed glance at Klaatu, Harley reads another cable) "The suggestion of the President regarding the possibility of a meeting in Moscow would be unacceptable to Her Majesty's Government at the present time. Representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in Washington." (he looks up at Klaatu and shrugs) Well -- there you have it. 
 I tried to make you understand. The suspicions -- the jealousies -- the mistrust-- (uneasily, under Klaatu's level gaze) Surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power-- 
 It's not your government I'm thinking about. It's your world. 
 Now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you'd like to discuss the matter with the President 
 (sternly) I will not speak to any one nation or group of nations. (sharply, bitterly) I don't intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and suspicions. 
 Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too harshly. 
 I can judge only by what I see. 
 Your impatience is quite understandable. 
 (sharply) I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without it. 
 (ruefully) I'm afraid my people haven't. (with real sincerity) I'm very sorry -- I wish it were otherwise. 
 Before making any decisions, I think I should get out among your people -- become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes. 
 Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible. 
 I must ask that you don't attempt to leave the hospital. Our military people have insisted on this. I'm sure you'll understand. 
 MONTAGE - NIGHT 
! 
 (over scene) --authorities at Walter Reed Hospital refused to comment on how he managed to escape, or what measures might be taken to apprehend him. 
 INSERT - TICKET 
 --while the President made no effort to minimize the crisis, he urged people all over the country to remain calm. He said the entire facilities of FBI and other federal agencies are being bought to bear. He pointed out, however, that this is no ordinary man hunt. He warned we may be up against powers that are beyond our control. 
 MRS. CROCKETT (tensely) I can't stand any more of this. It's enough to drive a person crazy. 
 Hey, Mom -- who's that? 
 MRS. CROCKETT (apologizing nervously for the tension in the room) I -- I'm sorry. What is it you want? 
 My name is Carpenter. I'm looking for a room. 
 Are you an FBI man? 
 No -- I'm afraid not. 
 Bet he is, Mom. Bet he's out looking for that space man. 
 (with an apologetic smile at Klaatu) I think we've all been hearing too much about "space men." 
 MRS. CROCKETT (starting the introductions with Helen) This is Mrs. Benson, Mr. Carpenter. (with a smile that would split a brick) And little Bobby. (indicating a middle- aged couple and a younger but more wizened man) Mr. and Mrs. Barley -- and Mr. Krull... I'm Mrs. Crockett. 
 MRS. CROCKETT (pleased to the point of challenge) Well -- this is our little family. (then, getting down to business) I have a very nice room on the second floor. 
 Can I help you look for the space man? Can I? (excitedly) I know what he looks like! He's got a square head -- and, three great big eyes! 
 (good-naturedly, calming him down) That's enough, Bobby. I think it's time you went to bed. 
 MRS. CROCKETT (to Bobby, with a prop smile) We mustn't annoy Mr. Carpenter -- or he won't want to stay here. She goes on into the hall, followed by Klaatu, who has exchanged a polite smile with Helen. 
 MRS. CROCKETT He's really a dear little boy -- and quiet as a mouse. (with a shrewd, chatty smile) You're a long way from home, aren't you, Mr. Carpenter? 
 How did you know? 
 MRS. CROCKETT (pleased with her cleverness) Oh, I can tell a New England accent a mile away. 
 MRS. BARLEY George, I wish you'd turn that radio off. I'm trying to concentrate. 
 MR. BARLEY (snorting, he tosses his paper down) Why doesn't the Government do something -- that's what I want to know. 
 MR. KRULL (mildly) What can they do? They're only people -- Just like us. 
 MR. BARLEY People my foot! They're Democrats! 
 MR. KRULL It's enough to give you the shakes. He's got that robot standing there -- ten-foot tall -- just waiting for orders to destroy us. 
 (thoughtfully) This space man -- or whatever he is. We automatically assume he's a menace... Maybe he isn't at all. 
 MR. BARLEY (glaring at her for this silly notion) Then what's he hiding for? Why doesn't he come out in the open? 
 MR. KRULL Yeah. (indicating the radio) Like the fella says: "What's he up to?" 
 Maybe he's afraid. 
 MRS. BARLEY (with a derisive snort) He's afraid! 
 After all, he was shot the moment he landed here. (she pauses for a moment thoughtfully) I was just wondering what I would do. 
 (to Helen, helpfully) Perhaps before deciding on a course of action, you'd want to know more about the people here -- to orient yourself in a strange environment. 
 MRS. BARLEY (sharply) There's nothing strange about Washington, Mr. Carpenter. 
 (quietly, tongue in cheek) A person from another planet might disagree with you. 
 MRS. BARLEY If you want my opinion, he came from right here on Earth. (with significant emphasis) And you know where I mean. 
 MR. KRULL They wouldn't come in a space ship. They'd come in airplanes. 
 MRS. BARLEY (as though with superior knowledge) I wouldn't be so sure about that. 
 MR. BARLEY (delivering the final word) Stands to reason that fella wants some thing or he wouldn't be here. (facing Klaatu) That make sense, Carpenter? 
 I must admit I'm a little confused. 
 MRS. CROCKETT Mrs. Benson -- Mr. Stevens is here to see you. 
 Oh -- thank you. 
 MRS. BARLEY Finish your coffee, George. I told the Carsons we'd be there at eleven. 
 (smiling warmly) Good morning. 
 We're all set. I picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. And the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for today. 
 (a little disturbed) There's only one thing -- I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby. (tentatively) I don't suppose we could take him with us? 
 (understandably unenthusiastically) Well, we could-- 
 There's always somebody here, but today of course they've all got plans. 
 KLAATU'S VOICE I haven't any plans. 
 I'd be glad to spend the day with him -- if you'd let me. 
 (impulsively) Say, that'll be great! Wouldn't it, Helen. 
 (hesitating, a little confused, by the offer) It's awfully nice of you to suggest it. (remembering the two men haven't met) I'm sorry Mr. Carpenter -- this is Tom Stevens. 
 Bobby and I had a fine time yesterday afternoon. We talked -- and listened to the radio. (smiling at Helen) I thought today he might show me around the city. 
 (easily) Suppose I ask Bobby how he feels about it. 
 (visibly impressed) Those are great words. (with an air of discovery) He must have been a great man. 
 That's the kind of man I'd like to talk to. 
 Bobby -- who's the greatest man in America today? 
 (puzzling it over) Gee -- I don't know... The space man, I guess. 
 (secretly amused) I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher -- the greatest thinker. 
 B0BBY You mean the smartest man in the whole world? 
 Yes -- that would do nicely. 
 (after a moments thought) Well -- Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the world. 
 (he pauses thoughtfully, speaks slowly, as he recalls the newspaper story he read) He lives here in Washington, doesn't he? 
 Sure. Right near where my mother works. 
 Where is that? 
 Department of Commerce. She's a secretary. (Klaatu nods) They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary. (after a moment; eagerly) Mr. Carpenter -- now can we go see the space ship? 
 Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building. 
 (with a quizzical smile) I shouldn't be at all surprised. 
 (excitedly, indicating the ship) Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go? 
 (quietly, after a glance around) Well -- atomic power, I would imagine. 
 (looking at Klaatu incredulously) I thought that was only for bombs. 
 No. It's for a lot of other things, too. 
 You think it can go faster than an F- 36? 
 Yes -- I think so. 
 About a thousand miles an hour? 
 Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster. 
 (excitedly) Gee! How could they make a landing? 
 Well -- there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the velocity-- 
 (grinning) Keep goin', Mister. He was fallin' for it. 
 You think they'll ever find him? 
 (alter a moment's pause) I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to doubt it. 
 (as they continue walking) Mr. Carpenter -- what does velocity mean? 
 (preoccupied) Velocity is the time rate of change of position. 
 I'll bet that's the way Professor Barnhardt talks. 
 Bobby -- I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks. 
 (with a half-smile of accusation) You're just kidding, aren't you? 
 Wouldn't you like to meet him? 
 Well, sure I would, but -- (he's to be not going taken in) Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared. 
 (with a private smile) We can scare him more than he can scare us. 
 I like you, Mr. Carpenter. You're a real screwball. 
 (disappointed at the thought) Gee -- maybe he isn't home. 
 Betcha this is where he works-- 
 (indicating the equations) What does that mean? 
 It's a problem in celestial mechanics. 
 Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer. 
 (he shakes his head, smiling) He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way. 
 We probably couldn't get to see him even if he was home. 
 (in complete surprise) Hey -- where you going? 
 If he's that difficult to see, perhaps we ought to leave a calling card. 
 HILDA'S VOICE What are you doing in here? 
 (outraged by Klaatu's desecration of the sacred blackboard) How dare you write on that blackboard! (Klaatu eyes her mildly) Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for weeks? 
 (pleasantly) He'll catch on to it in no time now. 
 (controlling herself with an effort) How did you get in here? And what do you want? 
 We came to see Professor Barnhardt. 
 Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening. (sternly) I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda. 
 You might keep this. (with easy assurance) I think the professor will want to get in touch with me. 
 (pointing to the blackboard) I wouldn't erase that. The Professor needs it very badly. 
 --no, Sergeant, there was no classified material around, but I have instructions to report anything unusual to the police... Yes -- I'm Professor Barnhardt's secretary. (consulting the paper in her hand) The man's name is Carpenter -- and he lives at 1615 St. Street, N.W... Yes, that's right-- 
 That's my father. (Klaatu glances at the boy, then nods understandingly) He was killed at a place called Anzio. 
 (Reflectively) Did all these people die in wars? 
 (somewhat surprised) Sure. Didn't you ever hear of Arlington Cemetery? 
 No -- I'm afraid not. 
 (very serious) Mr. Carpenter" -- you don't seem to know about anything. 
 (Amused) I'll tell you, Bobby -- I've been away for a long time. Very far away. 
 Is it different where you've been? (indicating the cemetery) Don't they have places like this? 
 (slowly) They have cemeteries. But not like this one... You see, they don't have any wars. 
 Gee -- that's a good idea. 
 What would you like to do this afternoon? 
 Go to the movies. 
 All right. 
 (he didn't dare hope for this) No foolin'? Will you? 
 Certainly. (then he hesitates) Tell me, Bobby -- do you have to have money to go there? 
 (eagerly) I've got some money. My mother gave me two dollars. 
 No -- I want to take you to the movies. (he takes some objects out of his pocket) Do you think they'd accept these? 
 Gee -- those look like diamonds! 
 Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry -- and they don't wear out. 
 (staring at them fascinated) Bet they're worth about a million dollars. 
 Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them? 
 (with a nervous, unsure smile) Well, sure, but-- 
 (slowly) Okay. 
 Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter. 
 (mildly curious) Why not, Bobby? 
 (gravely) She doesn't like me to steal from people. 
 Mr. Carpenter come home yet? 
 (studying the man curiously) Yeah -- he's right inside. 
 Tell him I'd like to see him. 
 (calling out) Mr. Carpenter--! (to the Detective) Come on in. 
 Your name Carpenter? 
 (puzzled that anyone should know him) Yes. (then recalling, with a smile of satisfaction) Oh -- I suppose Professor Barnhardt's looking far me. 
 (dryly, with grim emphasis) I been looking for you all afternoon. 
 (fondly) It was a wonderful day. 
 You still haven't answered my question. 
 (warmly sincere) You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over. 
 The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married -- with two dependents-- 
 (smiling) You're a good salesman -- but I've got to think about it. 
 A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think. 
 'Night. 
 Hi Mom! 
 Hello, darling. (she kisses Bobby, then turns questioningly to Klaatu and the Detective) Good evening, Mr. Carpenter. 
 Mrs. Benson -- this is Mr. Brady. 
 (Impressively) Mr. Brady's a cop. 
 (to Bobby) Did you have a nice day, dear? 
 (enthusiastically) Boy, we had a swell time. Didn't we, Mr. Carpenter? 
 We certainly did. 
 We went to the movies -- and we had ice cream cones -- and we went to see Daddy-- 
 (moved and grateful, she's uneasy and concerned as she turns to Klaatu) I don't know how to thank you. 
 I enjoyed every minute of it. 
 (with quiet insistence) We better get goin', Mr. Carpenter. 
 Aw, gee -- we didn't finish our story. 
 We'll finish it tomorrow... Goodnight, Bobby. 
 (reluctantly) Goodnight. 
 Come on, Bobby. Time to go to bed. 
 (he followers her, then hesitates) Mom -- why does Mr. Carpenter have to go down to the police station? 
 I -- I don't know, dear... Perhaps there's some mistake. 
 We sure had fun today. We saw the space ship and we went to see Professor Barnhardt -- and-- 
 (flashing him a puzzled, incredulous look) Professor Barnhardt. 
 (almost ignoring the interruption) Yeah, sure. Mom, do I have to go to school tomorrow? 
 Of course, dear. 
 Aw, gee, Mom -- I had plans to play with Mr. Carpenter. 
 (to the cop beside him) B.M. Alberts -- no prior arrests. 
 (to the vagrant) No identification? (the man shakes his head dully) Send him over to G-2. 
 My wife just arrived with my identification. 
 That'll be all, Mr. Baxter. Sorry to bother you... Next. 
 Cappo, John C? (the man nods) Two priors -- one for petty theft -- one for shoplifting. 
 (waving the man away) Okay, Jonny -- you can go. 
 (with a nervous grin) Sometimes a record comes in handy. (and he moves off) 
 The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard. 
 I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem. 
 (sardonically) Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out. 
 (pleasantly) That's right. 
 (quietly sharp and accusing) I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the Army. 
 In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer himself. 
 (growing impatient) But I suppose you know the answer. 
 (with a deprecating shrug) It's really quite simple... The three- body problem, you know. 
 Your name's Carpenter -- that right? (Klaatu nods) Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license -- social security number? 
 No -- I'm afraid not. 
 Well, how do I know who you are? 
 (secretly amused) You don't. 
 Excuse me, Lieutenant -- (pointing offscene) The Doc says this man needs treatment right away. 
 What's the story? 
 Some fella caught him lookin' in a window and figured he was the space man. The whole neighborhood went crazy and they ganged up on him. Would have killed him if we hadn't come along... Turns out he was just a prowler. 
 Okay -- book him and get him fixed up. (the cops nods and goes, and the Lieutenant growls as he turns back to Klaatu and the Detective) Looks like everybody's goin' nuts. 
 (appalled by what he has seen and heard) They would have killed this man? 
 (gruffly) People get hysterical enough, they do anything. (impatiently) Look, Mr. Carpenter -- if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army. 
 (pretending impatience, but actually growing concerned) How long will that take? 
 They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital. (to the Detective) Take him over to G2. 
 It's very important, Lieutenant, that I see Professor Barnhardt. 
 Come on, Mr. Carpenter-- 
 May I suggest that you call the Professor? 
 (all patience gone) Get going, will you, Brady -- before I get mad! 
 (to the Detective) Wait a minute, Brady-- (indicating orders in his hand) The Captain here's got orders from General Cutler to take this man over to Professor Barnhardt. 
 M.P. (to Klaatu firmly but respectfully) Will you come with me, Sir? 
 Sorry to trouble you, Lieutenant. 
 M.P. This is the man you wanted to see, Professor. 
 (studying Klaatu curiously) Thank you, Captain. 
 M.P. I'll wait outside. 
 You wrote this? 
 (nodding easily) It was a clumsy way to introduce myself -- but I understand you're a difficult man to see. (glancing at the blackboard reproachfully) I thought you'd have the solution by this time. 
 Not yet. That's why I wanted to see you. 
 All you have to do now is substitute this expression-- (pointing to a specific place) --at this point. 
 (slowly, thoughtfully) Yes -- that will reproduce the first- order terms. But what about the effect of the other terms? 
 Almost negligible... With variation of parameters, this is the answer. 
 How can you be so sure? Have you tested this theory? 
 (with a slight smile) I find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another. (Barnhardt stares at him blankly) I understand you've called a meeting to study our space ship. 
 As though unsure of what he's heard) Yes -- yes, I have. 
 My name is Klaatu. (noting that Barnhardt's expression is changing from amazement to incredulity) I spent two days at your Walter Reed Hospital. Room 309. My doctor's name was Major White -- and I had a very attractive nurse called Ruth, who's getting married next Wednesday. (Klaatu waits for this to sink in, then speaks with quiet authority) If you are not interested -- or if you intend to turn me over to your Army -- we needn't waste any more time. 
 (to the Captain, his voice a little unsteady) You can go now, Captain. Please thank General Cutler and tell him -- tell him that I know this gentleman. 
 (dryly) You have faith, Professor Barnhardt 
 It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity. (unable to conceal his interest) Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you. 
 (ignoring the invitation) I would like to explain something of my mission here. 
 That was my first question. 
 (with some bitterness) It was my intention to discuss this officially -- with all the nations of the Earth -- but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society. (gathering his thoughts) We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with rockets. 
 Yes -- that is true. 
 In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people-- (he shrugs and shakes his head) We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power. 
 (puzzled) If you mean that you are afraid of us-- 
 (with cool impressive emphasis) We want to be sure you don't make -- let us say -- an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children... You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years. (indicating the telephone) We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago. (he paces thoughtfully) So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves -- with your primitive tanks and planes -- we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships -- and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot tolerate. 
 (thoughtful and impressed) These other planets -- do they have peace and security? 
 We had our atomic wars -- thousands of years ago. (he smiles wryly) After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution -- that aggression leads to chaos. 
 (with deep conviction) We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists. (Straightforwardly) What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu? 
 I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger -- very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a solution. 
 Would you care to be more specific? 
 (evenly) What I have to say must be said to all concerned. (with a suggestion of deference to Barnhardt) It is too important to be entrusted to any individual. 
 I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful. 
 (sternly, as this unpleasant episode is recalled) I come to you as a last resort -- and I confess that my patience is wearing thin. (with Jovian annoyance) Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing? 
 (uneasily) What -- what sort of action do you mean? 
 Violent action -- since that seems to be the only thing you people understand. (quietly) Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps -- or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea. 
 Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples. 
 (quietly, evenly) That's what I came to see you about. 
 It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored -- or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators -- philosophers -- church leaders -- men of vision and imagination -- the finest minds in the world. 
 I leave that in your hands. 
 You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting? 
 No -- not at all. 
 What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army -- and the police? 
 My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house. 
 (smiling, but a little concerned) I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of inter-planetary conspiracy. 
 I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting. 
 (he suddenly pauses, thoughtfully) One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative? 
 (with a sense of quiet, inescapable power) I'm afraid you have no alternative. In such, a case the planet Earth would have to be-- (he looks for the right word) --eliminated. 
 Such power exists? 
 I assure you such power exists. 
 The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake. (after a thoughtful moment, he looks up) You mentioned a demonstration of force-- 
 Yes. 
 Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting? 
 Yes -- of course. 
 Something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. Something that would affect the entire planet. 
 (with a nod) That can easily be arranged. 
 (frightened by his easy assumption of infinite power) I wouldn't want you to harm anybody -- or destroy anything. 
 (easily) Why don't you leave it to me? I'll think of something. 
 (with a nervous half- smile) Maybe a little demonstration. 
 (thinking about it) Something dramatic -- but not destructive. (intellectually amused) It's quite an interesting problem. (Barnhardt nods vaguely) Would day after tomorrow be all right? Say about noon? 
 MRS. CROCKETT Going out, dear? 
 Yes, I'm waiting for Tom to pick me up. 
 MRS. CROCKETT (with a shudder) Personally, I won't go out after dark these days. (with an attempt at slyness) But then -- I'm not courting, am I? 
 MRS. CROCKETT (thoroughly startled) Oh -- Mr. Carpenter--! 
 Everyone seems so-- (he shakes his hands to indicate nervousness) 
 Jittery is the word. 
 (with a contemplative smile) Bobby's the only person I know who isn't -- Jittery. 
 He has his homework to keep him occupied. 
 (fondly, sincerely) He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson. 
 Naturally I think so. 
 Warm and friendly and intelligent-- (thoughtfully) You know -- he's the only real friend I've made since I've been here. 
 (hesitantly and with some difficulty) Mr. Carpenter -- this is none of my business, but -- why did that detective come here last night? 
 (with easy frankness) Oh -- they just wanted to ask me a few questions. Bobby and I tried to see Professor Barnhardt in the afternoon, but he wasn't in. Apparently they thought I was looking for secrets of some kind. 
 Hello-- 
 You ready? 
 I will be in just a minute. 
 (a little annoyed that she hasn't her coat on, he consults his watch) The picture starts at eight-fifty. 
 (in explanation) I was talking to Mr. Carpenter. 
 (lightly, but with real sarcasm underneath) I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm intruding. 
 Excuse me. I was just going up to my room. 
 (guiltily) Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter. 
 Have a good time -- both of you. 
 Why don't you wait in here while I get my things? 
 (quietly) Oh, Tom, that was awful. 
 (momentary apologetic) I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter. (Helen shushes him) I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him? 
 I'll go get my things. 
 (about to leave) All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator -- then subtract. 
 Thanks, Mr. Carpenter. 
 (to Helen, pleasantly) I'll say goodnight again. 
 Mr. Carpenter, I-- (it's too complicated; she can't do it) Goodnight. 
 (with a warm smile of complete understanding and appreciation) Goodnight, my dear. 
 Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning. 
 Okay. 
 (hesitantly, almost guiltily) Bobby -- I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter 
 (shocked, and bewildered) Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend... And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt. 
 Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt? 
 Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic. 
 (shrewdly) Mom -- is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter? 
 What do you mean, dear? 
 I mean -- on account of that policeman last night. (his eyes light up hopefully) You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster? 
 No, dear, of course not. He's a very nice man. I Just think he might prefer to be left alone. Now you get to bed and forget about it. (she kisses him) 'Night, darling. 
 Goodnight. (stopping her in the doorway, his imaginative suspicions mounting) Hey Mom -- why would he want to be alone? 
 Bobby -- have you a flashlight? 
 (surprised by his appearance and his request) Yeah -- sure. (he goes to a drawer and gets a large hand flashlight) It's a real Boy Scout flashlight. 
 What do you want it for, Mr. Carpenter? 
 (evasively) Why -- the light in my room went out. (cutting off further questions) Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight. 
. 
 HELEN'S VOICE (off scene) Why don't you come on in for a minute? 
 Bobby--! What are you doing up at this hour? 
 (excitedly) I couldn't go to sleep, Mom. I had to tell you! 
 Tell me what? 
 (the words tadpole out breathlessly) I followed Mr. Carpenter -- right after you left -- and, gee, Mom, where do you think he went? Right into the space ship! 
 (patiently disbelieving) Now, Bobby, just a minute-- 
 Honest, Mom, I saw him. It just opened up and he walked right in. And that great big iron man was moving around! 
 Bobby, you've been dreaming again. 
 (desperately) No, I haven't, Mom. I promise you... I saw it! 
 Where did you see all this, Bobby? 
 On the lawn down at the mall -- in that place with the soldiers out front. 
 (trying to trap him) Where were the soldiers all this time? 
 That robot fella grabbed 'em and dragged 'em inside! (his lips trembling) I like Mr. Carpenter -- but I'm scared, Mom. 
 (holding him close to her sympathetically) Mustn't be frightened, darling -- It was just a bad dream. Here -- we'll prove it to you. (with a look and a nod to Tom) Tom, will you ask Mr. Carpenter if he'll come down for a minute. (Tom turns to go) The room right opposite mine. 
 Now think back hard. You didn't follow Mr. Carpenter at all, did you? You haven't even been out of the house. 
 Yes, I have! 
 (determinedly) You didn't really see the space ship. You just thought you did. 
 I'd never call you a liar. 
 He's not there. (crossing to Helen) But look what I found in his room 
 (takes the stone and studies it, amazed by its size) Is it real? 
 (with the shrug of an amateur) Looks real to me. 
 Mr. Carpenter's got a lot of diamonds. (he digs into his pocket) He gave me a couple of them. 
 He gave these to you? 
 (guilty for his own sharp dealing) Well, not exactly. I gave him two dollars. 
 This doesn't make sense... I think the guy's a crook. I never did trust him. 
 Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler? 
 (firmly) Come on, darling -- we're going up to bed. 
 I wonder if we ought to-- 
 (cutting him off with a look) Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight. 
 (seriously concerned) You think it's all right for you to stay here? 
 (nods reassuringly) I've got a good lock on my door. (smiling at Bobby) And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight. 
 Oh, boy -- can I, Mom? 
 Yes, dear. Come on now. (she happens to look down at his feet. Puzzled, and concerned, she feels his shoes) Bobby, your shoes are soaking! 
 (reluctantly, with childish guilt) Yeah -- the grass was kind of wet. 
 (unnerved) Oh -- hello-- 
 May I see you for a minute? 
 I -- I was Just going to lunch. 
 (quietly insistent) May I walk out with you? 
 (into phone) Mrs. Benson speaking. (recognizing the voice, she glances nervously at Klaatu) Oh, hello... 
 (into phone, cheerily) I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together. 
 (with a nervous glance at Klaatu) I -- I'm afraid I can't -- not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye. 
 (watching Helen's reaction) I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school-- 
 (glancing at him apprehensively) Yes--? 
 I want to know what he told you last night. 
 (nervous and evasive) I -- I didn't really pay much attention-- (with a nervous little laugh) Bobby has such an active imagination. 
 (refusing to be put off) Did you believe what he told you? (Helen hesitates, trapped by uncertainty) I have a reason for asking this -- a very important reason. 
 There's another elevator we can use-- 
 (her nerves raw and edgy) What is it you want? 
 Before I ask you to be honest with me, perhaps I should be completely honest with you-- 
 (gasping with fright) What happened? 
 (a moment's hesitation; then he remembers) What time is it? 
 Just twelve. 
 We'll be stuck here for a little while -- about thirty minutes. 
 (preoccupied with her own thinking) We could try pushing the other buttons. (digging in her purse) I have a flashlight in my purse. 
 It won't work. 
 Why not? 
 (after a moment, quietly) You see -- the electricity's been neutralized -- all over the world. 
 Bobby was telling the truth -- wasn't he? 
 My ol' lady was right. We shoulda got a place in the country. 
 It's that space man -- that's wot it is. 
 You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself! 
 Thanks -- I'm enjoying it right here. 
 The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants! 
 (musing admiringly on Klaatu's cleverness) What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it. 
 What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived? 
 (nodding) I talked to most of them this morning... They were all very curious about the meeting. 
 Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter? 
 (nodding) He'll be there at 8:30. 
 (studying her for a moment) Tell me, Hilda -- does all this frighten you -- does it make you feel insecure? 
 Yes, sir -- it certainly does! 
 (nodding with a bland little smile) That's good, Hilda. I'm glad. 
 When it was discovered last night that the robot had moved, I was directed by the Joint Chiefs to find a means of immobilizing him. We accomplished that this morning by encasing him in a block of KL 93. (he hands a small block of plastic to the General) It's a new plastic material -- stronger than steel. 
 No, sir. I've Just checked on that. He's locked up tight as a drum. 
 Eleanor, did you call the electrician? 
 (she's not too bright) I tried, Mr. Bleeker. But the phone doesn't work, either. 
 (absently, as he studies the stone) Well, call the phone company. 
 (plaintively) But the phone doesn't work. 
 Is it worth anything? 
 I have never seen such a stone. Will you please tell me where it came from? 
 That's what I wanted you to tell me. 
 (overwhelmed and absorbed by the stone, he shakes his head, bewildered) There are no diamonds like this -- any place in the world. 
 You sure about that? 
 (eagerly, shrewdly) Would you like to sell it? 
 (picking up the stone) No -- no, thanks. 
 I'd give you a very good price. 
 (speaking gravely) --I've already told you more than I told Professor Barnhardt, because my life, in a sense, is in your hands. I thought if you knew the facts you'd appreciate the importance of my not being -- apprehended, -- before the meeting tonight. 
 Yes, of course. Of course I do. 
 (studying his face anxiously) You hold great hope for this meeting. 
 I can see no other hope for your planet. If the meeting should fail, then I'm afraid there is no hope. 
 (calmly) It must be twelve-thirty. 
 (looks at her watch, then back at him, awe-struck) Yes -- Just exactly. 
 Where are you going now? 
 Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon -- and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything about-- 
 No, wait a minute -- there's someone else. 
 Who? 
 Tom... He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw. 
 (worriedly) Of course, he doesn't know anything definite. He'd talk to me first, anyway, before-- (interrupting herself in sudden decision) We can't take that chance. I'll get in touch with him right away and make sure. 
 (into phone) --But I've got to talk to him. It's terribly important. When is he coming back? 
 I don't know, Mrs. Benson. He left before noon -- before that awful electric business. I'm scared to death, Mrs. Benson. I -- No, he wouldn't tell me where he was gong. Said it was something personal. 
 Tell him I want to see him the minute he gets in... No, I'll call back. 
 Attention, please.... All flights from National Airport have been canceled until further notice.. All flights from this airport have been canceled. 
 (into phone, nervous and jittery) --Honest, Mary, I'm so scared I can't sit still. I'd like to run some place, but I don't know where to go-- (hearing the door open, she cuts off) 'Bye now. 
 Call the Pentagon and find out who's in charge of this space man business. Whoever it is I want to talk to him. 
 Mrs. Benson's been trying to get you all afternoon. She says it's important. 
 Get this other call first. 
 Oh, Mrs. Benson -- He just walked in. (misery loves company) Are you nervous, too? 
 Yes, I am, Margaret. 
 Mrs. Benson is here. (turning to Helen) Go on in. 
 Tom -- I've been trying to get you all afternoon-- 
 (preoccupied with his own excitement) Come on in. 
 I've got some terrific news about your friend, Mr. Carpenter. 
 (trying to appear calm) What about him? 
 Helen, he's the man from the space ship! (she eyes him evenly, apprehensively, as he hurries on) I had that diamond checked at three different places. Nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! After what Bobby told us, that's enough for me. Why is it nobody knows anything about him? Why hasn't he got any money? 
 (evenly, with quiet tension) All right, Tom -- it's true. I know it's true. 
 How do you know? 
 Never mind about that. (urgently, with great concern) You've got to promise me you won't say a word to anybody. 
 Are you crazy? After what happened today? 
 You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is. 
 (impatiently) Important? Of course it's important. The point is we can do something about it. 
 That's what I'm trying to tell you. We mustn't do anything about it. Believe me, Tom, I know what I'm talking about. 
 (irritated by her opposition) He's a menace to the whole world! It's our duty to turn him in. 
 (desperately) But he isn't a menace! He told me what he came here for. 
 (dismissing this with annoyed contempt) He told you... Don't be silly, honey -- just because you like the guy. (busy with his own thoughts) You realize what this'd mean for us? I'd be the biggest man in the country. I could write my own ticket. 
 (eyeing him coldly) Is that what you're thinking about? 
 (guiltily, defensive) Why not? Somebody's got to get rid of him. 
 I'm not going to let you do it, Tom. (with deep personal urgency) Believe me, this is literally the most important thing in the world. 
 (into phone) Yes?... What's his name, Margaret? General Cutler? (disappointed that the connection isn't completed) All right, I'll hold on. 
 Tom, you mustn't -- ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved! 
 (exasperated) I don't care about the rest of the world! 
 You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers. 
 (staring at him starkly) I feel different right now. 
 (uneasily) You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero! 
 I'm not going to marry anybody. 
 (into phone) Hello, General Cutler? (irritated) No, I don't want to speak to his aide. I want to speak to the General. Tell him it's about the space man... My name is Tom Stevens. S-t-e-v-e-n- s. 
 (into phone) That's right, General. That's where he's staying... Yes, of course I'm sure. 
 (after listening for a moment) Thank you very much, Mr. Stevens. I'll want to talk to you further but I haven't time now. (hangs up and turns to Colonel) Deploy all Zone 5 units according to Plan B -- immediately. 
 (into radio) Attention, Zone 5... Yellow cab, moving north on B from Ninth Street. Man and woman in back seat. Get the license number and report. 
 I'm sure Barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting. 
 Where is the meeting going to be? 
 At the ship. 
 (into radio) Attention, Zone 5... license number of target vehicle is W 4936... All vehicles maintain your positions -- and hold your fire. 
 (into radio) Attention, Zone 5 -- report when target vehicle passes your position. 
 (trying to give him encouragement) It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's. 
 I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do -- if anything should happen to me. 
 Gort? (puzzled) But he's a robot. I mean -- without you, what could he do? 
 (slowly) There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth. (with great urgency) If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that. 
 (shocked and bewildered, she repeats nervously) "Klaatu barada nikto." 
 (gravely) Remember those words. 
 (into radio) Attention, Zone 5... Section number 2 -- block off Tenth Street at Massachusetts. All vehicles close in. 
 Hey, what's this all about? 
 (weakly, insistently) Get that message to Gort. Right away-- 
 
 Gort--! (with desperate clarity) Klaatu -- barada -- nikto. 
 (into phone) Yes, sir, we've got the body here now. Downstairs in a cell... No question about it, General -- he's dead all right... Yes, sir. Yes -- I understand. 
 General Cutler's coming down here right away. (to the Lieutenant) Take a squad of men, Lieutenant, and post a guard around that cell. (to Captain) Captain, don't let anyone in or out of the building. 
 (with a grateful glance at Gort, he turns to Helen) Hello. 
 (staring at him) I -- I thought you were-- 
 (nodding, with a smile) I was. 
 (looking at Gort in awe) You mean he has the power of life and death? 
 No -- that is a power reserved to the Almighty Spirit. 
 (indicating the equipment Gort used) This technique, in certain cases, can re-stimulate life for a limited period. It's a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people. 
 (concerned for him) But how -- how long--? 
 How long will I live? (he shrugs) That no one can say. 
 I'm sorry, Professor Barnhardt -- I have to ask you to call off this meeting. 
 Call it off? I... But I had permission from the Army-- 
 I know you did. But the robots on the loose now and it isn't safe around here. You'll have to get your friends out of that building. 
 Gort and I will be leaving soon. 
 (simply, sincerely) We'll miss you very much -- Bobby and I. (smiling to conceal her real feelings) He won't have anyone to play with. 
 He'll have you -- and Tom. 
 (quietly -- definitely) No. That's all finished. 
 I'm sorry. 
 (she is sensible and objective, but not unfeeling) I think I'm very lucky. You don't always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it. 
 Ladies and Gentlemen-- 
 I called you from your work and from your homes all over the world because we were to meet here tonight with a man from another planet -- the man who came here in this ship. (there are audible exclamations of surprise and disappointment) As you all know, this is no longer possible. I can only say that I share the bitterness of your disappointment. 
 Gort -- berengo. 
 --under the circumstances, the Army people have asked us to leave the building. And, since their concern is for our safety, I can do nothing but suggest that we comply-- 
 (straightforwardly, with almost stern authority) I am leaving soon and you will forgive me if I speak bluntly. (he pauses, studying the faces) The Universe grows smaller every day -- and the threat of aggression by any group -- anywhere -- can no longer be tolerated. 
 KLAATU'S VOICE (over scene) There must be security for all -- or no one is secure... This does not mean giving up any freedom except the freedom to act irresponsibly. 
 KLAATU'S VOICE (over scene) Your ancestors knew this when they made laws to govern themselves -- and hired policemen to enforce them. 
 We of the other planets have long accepted this principle. We have an organization for the mutual protection of all planets -- and for the complete elimination of aggression. A sort of United Nations on the Planetary level... The test of any such higher authority, of course, is the police force that supports it. For our policemen, we created a race of robots-- (indicating Gort) Their function is to patrol the planets -- in space ships like this one -- and preserve the peace. In matters of aggression we have given them absolute power over us. 
 KLAATU'S VOICE (over scene) At the first sign of violence they act automatically against the aggressor. And the penalty for provoking their action is too terrible to risk. 
 The result is that we live in peace, without arms or armies, secure in the knowledge that we are free from aggression and war -- free to pursue more profitable enterprises. (after a pause) We do not pretend to have achieved perfection -- but we do have a system -- and it works. (with straightforward candor) I came here to give you the facts. It is no concern of ours how you run your own planet -- but if you threaten to extend your violence, this Earth of yours will be reduced to a burned- out cinder. 
 Your choice is simple. Join us and live in peace. Or pursue your present course -- and face obliteration. (after a pause) We will be waiting for your answer. decision rests with you. 
 
