 August 3, 2008 
: 
 Fuck off! George is not a `sexy' name. George is like what you name your teddy bear, not the name you wanna scream out during an orgasm. 
 Name three. 
 RHIANNON (CONT'D) Besides Clooney. Too easy. 
 Fine. That's one. Number two? 
 Who's that? 
 No way. Teddy bear. 
 So what? Charlize Theron played that butt-fucking-ugly lesbo serial killer. Besides he's from another century. (MORE) 3. 
 RHIANNON (CONT'D) We're speaking present day. I mean, Jesus, Mortimer was probably a sexy name in some era. 
 What are you? Fifty? 
 Bush? Yeah. He's one hot mutherfucker. Just face it. There's no such thing as a sexy George. 
 Fine. Don't come. I hate you. 
 (Into the phone) PLEASE. Please. I'm begging you. I'll pay you. 
 You're lying. You're a lying bitch and I hate you so much right now. 
 MR. ABERNATHY Would you like a marshmallow, Olive Oil? 5. 
 MRS. ABERNATHY Olive oil. That's funny. Very, very funny. 
 MR. ABERNATHY You can call me Mortimer, Olive Branch. 
 (Into the phone) Why don't you just say it? You don't like my parents. You think they're hopelessly pathetic and devoid of souls and wish that you could live with normal people who didn't meet at a Star Trek convention!! 
) Rhi, I like your parents. They're sweet. But I can't go camping this weekend. 
 Quick. Hurry and make up a lie. 
 Liar. 6. 
 With who? 
 And neither do you, you selfish bitch! 
 What's his name then? 
 (WAXING CUTE) Who? My brother? 
 Stop stalling. You're totally trying to come up with a name. Just say it. 
 George? What kind of a fucking name is George? 
 If you're choosing him over helping me cope with two days in the wilderness with these people who even I'm not convinced aren't serial killers, he had better be the one. You had better fucking marry him, have fucking babies with him and then take him for fucking everything he's worth. 
 (With her mouth full) You're not off the hook, you know. I want lurid details. This had better be the best date of your life to counterbalance the worst weekend of mine. 
) Even though we now hate each other, Rhi, I really hope you're watching this. Because this part's for you. The lurid details of my weekend en flagrante delicto with the all-too- imaginary, yet surprisingly satisfying George Glass: 
 OLIVE'S WEEKEND: 
 (V.O.) Olive. Poor thing. 
 about it's olive drab drab. 
 DOESN'T KNOW that it is about to be named `Color of the Year,' by those with the nose for the new. By the passionate few. Yeah... 
 that can possibly mean (MORE) 9. 
 and olive trees! Olive trees? What a quaint notion... Olive trees. (CHUCKLING) Olive. 
 Details, bitch. Wait, first I need a scope of reference. Who would play him in the movie of your life? 
 That works. Spill. 
 Are you going to see him again? 
 The whole weekend? 
 Wait a minute. You didn't... 
 (VERY LOUDLY) You fucking liar! You totally lost your virginity to him. 
 YES YOU DID, YOU LYING FUCKING 
! 
 RHIANNON (CONT'D) Tell me everything and spare me the coquettish `just-the-tip' bullshit. (MORE) 11. 
 RHIANNON (CONT'D) I know you did it! I know you let him put it inside you, so just TELL ME! 
 The kind that does it or the kind that does it like a fucking porn star and then doesn't have the balls to talk about it? 
 I want every perverted detail. NOW, bitch. 
 You lost your virginity! Fucking finally! Now, you're a super-slut like me! 
 There were people walking past. Whatever, this isn't about me. This is about YOU. What did you let him do? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) It was... Normal. Nothing freaky. It was sweet. HE was sweet. 
 Was he big? Did it hurt? 
 What the fuck are you looking at, Marianne? 
 Nothing. Just a couple of admitted whores. 
 MR. ABERNATHY Wienie, Rhi? 
 Blue Devils! Blue Devils! Blue Devils! 
 How can we exhibit school pride when we're conveyed to others as satan worshippers? 
 Go meerkats! Go meerkats! 
 What the fuck is a meerkat anyway? 
 I think I speak for all of the female students and faculty - and maybe a couple of males - when I say that I liked Todd much better when he was shirtless. I actually looked forward to these disturbing displays of -- what do they call it? 
 Yeah. That's it. 15. 
 Ha! What are those people called again? The ones that dress up like stuffed animals when they do it? 
 Shhh. Don't let Marianne hear you say that word. The last thing we need is McCarthyism at Barbara Bush. 
 True. (Beat.) Yeah, I'd totally fuck Meerkat Todd. 
 (EXASPERATED) What? 
 Olive - that's your name, right? 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I'm not the one you have to answer to for your depraved behavior. There is a higher power to judge your indecency. 
 (ICILY) I hope for your sake, God has a sense of humor. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) 
 (SOTTO VOCE) Damn it. 
 Look. You've made your bed. I just hope for your sake, you cleaned the sheets. 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) All I could think to myself was `Great, now I'm going to have to start wearing red lipstick and stiletto heels.' 
 (12). 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) And you would testify to that? 
 (SLIGHTLY CONCERNED) What's up, sweet pea? 
 What's the rumor mill turning out these days? 
 Don't forget your brother's staying here next weekend. 
 They're fumigating the dorms. And thank God for that. Last time I was there, I saw three cockroaches. 
 
 (WHINY) Mom, can you please not say that word while I'm eating? 
 Sorry, hon. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I'm trusting that this nugget of information isn't going to be spread around, but - okay, here it goes: My dad's name is Dill and my mother's name is Rosemary. They were so amused by this that they decided to name all of their children after -- 
 (FEIGNING DISCOMFORT) -- edible items. (With mock emotion) My brother's name is Sage and my sister's name is Ginger. It's shocking, I know. We're like a fucking pantry, us Penderghasts! (SNAPPING BACK) But at least my parents didn't meet at a `Star Trek' convention, BITCH! Sorry. Now, I'm just being mean. Okay. Back to the story. 
 (O.S.) Ewwwww. Hunter Neblett just puked all over the dining room. 
.' 
 MR. GRIFFIN Alright, so thoughts? 
 I think Hester Prynne was - excuse my language - a whore. 24. 
 MR. GRIFFIN You don't see her as a victim? 
 Why should I? She brought it on herself. 
 Perhaps you should embroider a red A on your wardrobe? 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) Admittedly, not my best line. But it was provocative enough to land me in the Principal's office. 
 Seems as if someone's on a downward spiral. 
 You have a chip on your shoulder the size of Texas. 
 (COLDLY) You're going to hell. 
) As long as you won't be there... 
 Oh, I can assure you I won't. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I hope you at least had the good sense to wear a condom. 
 You know, you're just like -- 
 I don't know you. 
 Why are we just now meeting? Using language like this should have warranted a visit to me years ago. 
 This is foul. 
 A young lady with such an extensive vocabulary shouldn't be stooping to such vituperations. 
 Wipe that smile off your face -- (Consulting the note) Olive. I don't tolerate this kind of language. Ever. Consider this your first warning. If I find out you've used a word like this in my school again, I will make sure that it's your last. I don't operate on a `three strikes you're out system'. You get one warning from me. 
 Detention tomorrow after school in Room 704. And, young lady, I don't want to see you again. 
 (FRIGHTENINGLY SERIOUS) Get out of my office now. 
 Please tell me the rumors are true. 
 Not that one. The one where you called Nina Howell a cunt and then socked her in the nose. 
 Yeah. Like the exact moment you turned into such a BAD ASS? I think I'm in LOVE with you. (MORE) 28. 
 RHIANNON (CONT'D) Please tell me you at least left a mark on that scrunched-up face of hers. POW! The cunt goes down for the count! 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I want a car. 
 Please. It's my only perk. Trust me. 
 What did you do? 
 (More curious than angry) What did you say? 
 What did it start with? 
 I meant what letter did it start with? 
 T? That's an odd one. Is this one of those new curse words? 
 ROSEMARY (CONT'D) Was it -- ? 
 Yeah. Neither do I. 
 Okay. Noun, adjective or verb? 
 Well, I'm stumped. Whisper it in my ear. 
 Oo! Oo! Spell it with your peas! 30. 
 Does this have something to do with this rumor you were talking about the other night? 
 DILL (CONT'D) Is there something you want to tell us, kiddo? 
 (Desperate for attention) I got a B plus on my spelling test today. 
 Good, sweetheart. 
 ROSEMARY (CONT'D) Oh, I know what it is! 
 (Glancing at Olive's 
) What's a twat? 
 It's a word that will get you sent to the principal's office. 
 (Whispering into Ginger's 
) It's not a good word. (MORE) 31. 
 ROSEMARY (CONT'D) (TO OLIVE) So, what was the principal like? 
 Of what? 
 Well, it's the first time since second grade, so I guess we can't be too hard on you. 
 I dunno. To bed without supper? 
 (THINKING HARD) Uhhhh. This grounding thing seems to be taking the country by storm. No phone, TV or... Or.... 
 Fine. I'd take away your -- 
 Yes! You're computer! 32. 
 
 (SMILING WARMLY) I guess then I'm lucky this isn't a regular occurrence. 
 I love you. (Whispering in her ear) And I'm sure that girl was acting like exactly what you called her. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) How's about I go and punish myself? Mea culpa, mea culpa. 
 How come you guys never get mad at her? 
 Because, pumpkin, of our three darling children, we love her best. (Erupting into laughter) Just kidding! Now eat your dinner. 
 I don't think we pose a flight risk. 
 What? 
 I was afraid you were going to bring that up. 
 
 (DRYLY) I have been fantastic. (MORE) 34. 
 BRANDON (CONT'D) Really, really amazing. Don't know if you heard, but according to my locker, I'm a `power bottom.' 
 Yeah, only two days after the custodians had finally gotten around to scrubbing `turd burglar' off. Which, if you think about it, really contradicts the previous label. 
 But, of course, I'm in detention. 
 Because Gibbons is a homophobe. (Beat.) And I called him a facist. 
 (INCREDULOUS) Have you ever met me? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I kind of guessed it that night with the whole kissing thing. The way you ran away. I remember thinking to myself, `this isn't the first time this kid's going to go bursting out of the closet.' 35. 
 Gold star for you, Nancy Drew. 
 Oh good. I'll come back when I'm twenty seven for my redo. 
 That'll be the day. (Beat.) Judging from the new look you're sporting, I'm not the only one in a transformative stage. `Sup with the whore couture? 
 As a matter of fact I did hear that. I heard you banged a guy twice your age. 
 Also heard he gave you crabs. 
 Tell me about it. 
 So, you started the rumor? 
 But you're perpetuating it. That's fucked up. 
 It's true. There's only one thing worse than these tabloid-chasing celebutantes with their vapid minds and their immoral souls and that's the people who want to be like them. 
 No, you just want everyone else to think you are. 
 You're saying I should pretend to be straight, so people will like me? What a novel idea. You should do seminars. Oh, wait a minute, I forgot... In high school, EVERYBODY PRETENDS TO BE SOMETHING THEY'RE NOT! 37. 
 There are some of us, though, that want to just blend in to the crowd. 
 I can't decide if you're a genius or a lunatic. 
 Funny. I always thought teen angst and apathy went hand in hand. 38. 
 What? Pretending to be a whore? For a virgin, I'm impressed. How about me? Could I pass as straight? 
 I prefer the term `turd burglar.' 
 But you know that we would never do that. 
 (O.S.) Brandy Carter was telling Vanessa Hodges that you lost your virginity to three guys in a jacuzzi. 39. 
 (O.S.) Ewww. Who said that? 
 (O.S.) From your seedy pre-pubescent closet romp? 
 (O.S.) Nobody talks to him. 
 (O.S.) He's gay. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Shit. Hold on. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Hello? 
 (O.S.) Olive? 
 (SINGSONG) Unfortunately so. 
 It's Brandon. 40. 
 (O.S.) Hey, can I come over? I wanted to talk to you about something. 
 (O.S.) Okay. See you soon. 
 (O.S.) Probably wants to borrow an outfit. 
 (O.S.) Any word from George? 
 (O.S.) You're being awfully cavalier about this. I mean, he popped your cherry. Aren't you supposed to be eternally in love with him and shit? 
 Hi. Is there an Olive here? 
 
 (FEIGNING CONFUSION) There's a whole jar of them in the fridge. 
 Sorry, I must have gotten the address wrong. 
 Just kidding! Come on in. 
 ROSEMARY (CONT'D) Olive, sweetie, there's a young man here to see you. He said something about asking for your hand in marriage. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Welcome to my boudoir! This is where the magic happens. 42. 
 (BLURTING OUT) Do you wanna go out with me? 
 BRANDON (CONT'D) I mean, like -- Do you want to be my girlfriend? 
 True. But you said I should pretend to be straight. 
 You're not really my type either. 
 Okay. Well, do you wanna have sex with me? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Oh my God, dude. You totally missed my point. All I was saying was that -- 
 No, I know what you were saying. I should play it straight until I get out of this hell and then I can be whoever I want to be. No, I got that. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) 
 (CONSIDERS THIS) Well, actually, I just told one person and - well - you know how these things work. 
 So, you're saying I shouldn't really have sex. I should just say I had sex with someone. A girl. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Oh no. Oh no no no no no no no no. No. Really. No. No way. No. No. 
 Think about it. We could help each other out. You want to maintain this floozy facade. I want to not get my face pummelled weekly. 
 All it would take is one good imaginary fuck and you'd be saving the bone structure of my face. Think of how happy my parents would be! 
 Who would believe me? (GROWING INCREASINGLY 
) Listen, Olive, I don't want to do this. I want to live in that not- too-distant EMO world, but I still have another year of this bullshit place and I can't do it. I just can't do it. (Beat.) (MORE) 44. 
 BRANDON (CONT'D) I'll pay you. I can pay you whatever you want. 
 Whores aren't discerning, Olive. And just think - you'll OFFICIALLY be a hooker with a heart of gold! 
 I insist. 
 (His voice cracking with 
) I can make it work. I promise. 
 I can't believe you're doing this. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Just make sure you're ready to live with the consequences. 
 Hey Olive! (WEIRDED OUT) Hi Brandon. 
 Well, glad you could make it. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Brandon was in the middle of telling me this funny thing. Is there a quiet room we can go to where he can finish telling me -- 
 (HICCUP) -- About his thing? That's funny? 
 Sure. You can use the guest room. Down the hall. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (Loudly; to all) Hey everybody! 
 (Shocked; Mouthing to a 
) What the fuck?! 
 I know! Right? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Grunt. Make it really convincing. And manly. 
 (WHISPERING) How long do we have to do this? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Oh God, Brandon. Don't stop. Don't stop. Don't stop, don't stop, don't stop. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (WHISPERING) Now that I think about it, we probably don't want to do this for too long. It'll give the impression that you're having difficulty finishing. That's not the desired effect. 
 (WHISPERING) Are you sure you're a virgin? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Go forth, my son. You're a man now. 
 Thanks Olive. 
 Back entrance is through the kitchen. 
. 
 (POLITELY) Sorry. 
 How's it going? 
 Can I get you a beer? 50. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (Ashamed of herself) I should probably go. 
 That kid from the other night just dropped this off for you. 
 He seems like a nice boy... Gay... 
 I dated a homosexual in high school. 
 I just wanted to tell you that if you want to date a gay boy, it might be hard on your father and I, at first. But we love you no matter what the sexual orientation of your opposite-sex partner. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Dear Olive, The dildo is just in case you don't shop at Target. Then you can fuck yourself. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (EXCITEDLY) Your package was perfection! 
 (O.S.) So, it's TRUE! 
 (O.S.) Well, it's not last night's conquest! 
 I have many questions, obviously. 
 Now is not the time to be cute. 
) -- `according to last month's Cosmopolitan Magazine, we should always look cute. Even when we're doing mundane activities such as choosing vegetables from the produce section of our local grocery store.' 
 Olive, stop it. This is serious. Did you really bang Brandon last night at Melanie Dipshit's party? 
 That's what EVERYONE is saying. 
 Does this mean you guys are dating? 
 Just because you lost your virginity doesn't mean you can go around screwing everybody! 
 (OFF-PUT) Uh, thanks Mom. Good talk. 
 You're getting a reputation. 
 Please forgive my rectitude, but I think that a best friend's duty is to let her know that everyone - and I do mean everyone - is calling her a cum dumpster. 
 Look, baby, I call a spade a spade. 
 I didn't want to believe it, but I guess it's true. You're a fucktart. 55. 
 Oh yeah. I totally want to lose my virginity to one of -- (As if it was a disease) -- your brother's friends and then be the first for a fairy, while everyone listens outside! What is wrong with you? Does sex mean anything to you? 
 A `A' 
 (NERVOUS) Hi. 
) I just realized the funniest thing. My name is an anagram for `I love...' 
 (STUTTERING) What's an anagram? 
 Hey Olive. 
 Can I talk to you for a second? 
 EVAN (CONT'D) (WHISPERING) Don't get mad, but Brandon told me what you did for him. 
 No, he told me the truth. 
 EVAN (CONT'D) And I was just hoping that maybe you could do the same for me? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) RUN away, Evan. 58. 
 I can pay you, too. 
 (Excited at the prospect) Can you do it in front of everyone? 
 EVAN (CONT'D) I don't need your permission, you know. 
 EVAN (CONT'D) I mean, at the rate you're going, I'm just saying I don't think anyone would not believe it. 
 I'll give you $500. 
 (Indicating his body) That's the problem. 
 Five hundred bucks for just feeling you up? Doesn't that seem a little steep to you? Can you throw in SOME (Mispronouncing it; as if it rhymed with `cottage') frottage? 
 (BUCKLING) Fine. But it was so good, you lasted only twelve seconds and I better not find out that little pecker of yours EVER came out of your pants. Take it or leave it. 
 Little pecker? Nuh-uh. For five hundred dollars, it was ungodly huge. You even commented on the unusual girth for a guy my age. 
 Three minutes. 
 Deal. 
 Really? Do you want to go on a date? 
 MR. GRIFFIN Yeah, Olive. Come cop a squat. 
 MR. GRIFFIN Olive, Olive, Olive. Do you think that maybe you're reading a little too much into this assignment? 
 MR. GRIFFIN I'm hearing things. 
 MR. GRIFFIN You know what I'm talking about. 
 MR. GRIFFIN I guess it wouldn't matter so much if I didn't like you. You're a great girl and I happen to think that all of (MORE) 62. 
 MR. GRIFFIN I just don't want to see this (He searches for the word) damage you. 
 MR. GRIFFIN Hey, I'm really sorry I had to send you to the Principal. If you tell anybody, I'll deny it, but I really wanted to cheer with the rest of the class. 
. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (To the woman) Hey Mrs. Griffin. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Hi! How are you? 
 MRS. GRIFFIN I've never seen that girl before in my life. 
 MR. GRIFFIN That doesn't surprise me. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN I'm the guidance counselor. I should know all of the students. Especially the ones dressed like that. 
 MR. GRIFFIN She's just going through a phase. (He gets an idea) Hey, do you think you could talk to her? Maybe you could get her to -- I dunno - 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Sure. Yeah, whatever. Oh wait! That's not the girl that everyone's talking about, is it? 
 MR. GRIFFIN `Fraid so. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Oh, this'll be good. That snotty office aid has been bitching about her incessantly. 
 MR. GRIFFIN It's all lies. Talk to her. Maybe that's all she needs. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN What are you making for dinner tonight? 
 MR. GRIFFIN Is it my turn? 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Sure is. I'm meeting up with the girls at happy hour. 
 MR. GRIFFIN Don't have too much fun. 64. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN I never do. 
 Heavenly Father, watch over us with Your all-encompassing love. Keep us on the path toward Your righteousness and eternal salvation. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) Guys. We have a problem. 
 Amen to THAT. 
 Olive Penderghast. We need to pray for her, but we also need to get rid of her. I'm sure, by now, you've all heard about what happened at Melanie Bostic's party. 
 #1 I was there. I heard the whole thing. 
 That's not something you need to advertise, Kurt. 
 (SHEEPISHLY) Sorry. 
 See, herein lies the problem: She's doing these tasteless, immoral acts in plain view of the entire student body. (MORE) 65. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) She's in direct opposition to everything we're trying to do for this school, which is make it a wholesome learning environment and a place where our children will one day flourish the way that we are. (Beat.) She was sent to the Principal's office last week -- 
 (INTERRUPTING) She called me a really hurtful name. 
 -- and I tried to witness to her, but she's defiant to any sort of help. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I don't know what to do, but something's got to be done. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) Does anybody here think that they can talk to her in a way that might get her to see that what she's doing is wrong? 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I'm sorry. This is so stupid. 
 No, it's not, Marianne. 
 Jesus tells us to love everyone. Even the whores and the homosexuals, but it's so hard. (MORE) 66. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) It's so hard, because they just keep doing `it' over and over again. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) Make me a promise. Make GOD a promise right here and now that we will remain pure and chaste until marriage. (Looking to Micah) Until our love is proven holy in His eyes. 
 Let's continue to pray for Olive Penderghast. That either she sees that what she's doing is a sin and changes her behavior or that she gets the hell out of our school. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) Awww, I love you guys. God loves you guys. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Hey Olive. Wanna come in? 67. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN So, the reason I called you down here is just so that we could - sort of, y'know - chat about what's going on. (Beat.) There's been some concern from faculty members. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Olive, you're attempting to make a statement. We get that. I'm just confused as to what exactly it is. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN You're not in trouble, Olive. I just wanted you to know that if there was something you maybe needed to talk about, that you could trust me. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Yes. 
 (CONFESSIONAL) I watch `American Idol.' Do NOT tell anyone. 68. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I have a reputation to uphold. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Don't you, though? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) This has been so much fun that I'm actually - at this very moment - considering meth addiction, just so I can come back and we can jaw some more. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN (BITINGLY) Or you could always get pregnant? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Propho-tastic! 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Please don't tell anyone I gave you these. The school board is -- 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Conservative. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN (STERNLY) But you do. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Remember: our little secret. And, hey, would you send in the next person? 
 (Concerned; To Micah) It's going to be okay. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I didn't know Christians believed in guidance counsellors. (Beat.) Ooo! Ooo! Is your boyfriend struggling with his sexuality? 
 No, you insensitive rhymes-with- witch! His parents are going THROUGH A (MORE) 70. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) (WHISPERED) divorce! 
 (Through her tears) They go to our church! Imagine what people will say! 
 Mrs. Griffin is going to fix everything. She's amazing. I know that she's going to help Micah through this time and everything's going to be okay. 
 Why are you being so nice to me? 
 I'm sorry, okay? I'm sorry for everything I said. (MORE) 71. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I want to be friends. PLEASE. PLEASE be my friend. 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) And for a day, we were actually really good friends. I was really starting to think that things were going to turn around. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN (SNAPPING) What?! What do you want? 
 20:14 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) It was make-believe and no one was getting hurt. But a lot of people hate me now. I kind of hate me, too. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I could be wrong, but aren't you supposed to say something or ask me questions. Tell me to say `Hail Marys'? Hello? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Oh, come on! 
 Pastor McGreevey is on vacation this week. But our associate pastor is in. Would you like to speak to him? 
 Can I tell him what this is regarding? 
 Don, there's a young lady here who would like to speak with you about joining. 
 RECEPTIONIST (CONT'D) (Pointing to an office) You can go right in. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) divinity and was wondering what your church's stance on lying and adultery was? 
 -- 
. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) The Jews and I have a lot in common. Fashion-wise. And stuff. So, thank you for your time. 
 Micah's in the hospital. He's in so much pain! The nurse didn't know what was wrong. 
 (Tears glistening in her 
) Really? 
 It hurts so bad. 
 Chlamydia. 
 MICAH'S MOTHER How did you get chlamydia? Who have you been sleeping with? Tell me! TELL ME! 
 Olive! Olive Penderghast! 
 MICAH'S MOTHER (ANGRILY) Olive Penderghast. 
 
!! 80. 
 Olive Penderghast. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Are you okay, hon? 
 THAT -- 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (Clutching her face) MutherFUCKer! 81. 
 My sentiments exactly... 
 (Into the cell phone) I didn't know what to say! I panicked! I said I got it from Olive Penderghast. (Pause.) I know, but what was I supposed to say?! And then my mom called her mom. (Pause.) No, not Olive's. Marianne's! (Pause.) I already tried to blame it on their divorce, but my mom's not buying it. I have to tell them. (Pause.) Okay. But I love you. I don't care if you gave me chlamydia. I LOVE YOU and I want to be with you and no one can stop us. Not my mother, not Marianne, not -- 
 MRS. GRIFFIN (SNAPPING) What?! What do you want? 
 MRS. GRIFFIN It's my fault. I'm so sorry, Olive. 
 (SOTTO VOCE) I fucked up. I fucking fucked up SO fucking bad. I'm a fucking.... Fuck. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Yeah, well, you're not to supposed to fuck them, either. But it didn't stop me. 
 (SWITCHING GEARS) Wait. What does that have to do with me? 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) My guidance counselor, who had only days before armed me with a latex bulletproof vest, told me that she had chlamydia and that she had been screwing around with her office aide's boyfriend under the guise of divorce counseling. She confided in me that she and her husband - my favorite teacher - were having marital problems, that they hadn't slept together in months. She assured me that she had never meant for anything to happen with Micah. She confessed to me how when she was a child she always dreamt of being Maria Von Trapp, not Mary Kay Letorneau. Micah had panicked and used me as a scapegoat - to save her job and her marriage. She assured me that she would make sure everyone knew the truth and apologized. 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) And I bought it. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I could have chlamydia. And I could easily have given it to Micah. That time we slept together. Who knows? Often times women don't have symptoms and I have been whoring around.... 
 MRS. GRIFFIN No you haven't. 84. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) And it's not really my place to say this, but I figure after the conversation we just had, I can speak candidly. Your husband is HOT and while the male adolescent can fuck like a bunny... who really wants to fuck a bunny? If I was you, I'd go home and seduce him and pretend this never happened. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN (SNIVELING) Do you want some more condoms? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Dude, if some bimbo gave MY boyfriend an STD, I'd have swung, but I'd have balled my fist. (WHIMSICALLY) My boyfriend. (She gets lost in the 
) With all the mythical play I was getting, it's a wonder - and probably a miracle - that I still hadn't actually been asked out on a real date. Guys were clamoring to claim that they'd slept with me, but no one was putting the real moves on me. Until finally... 
 Hey Olive. 
 ANSON (CONT'D) I was wondering if you were busy tonight. Maybe wanna go out or something? 
 I dunno. I was thinking about chartering a hot air balloon, taking along a bottle of champagne and fresh fruit and then trying to impress you with an overzealous reading of Emily Dickinson. 
 (COYLY) Why, Anson, are you inviting me to accompany you to a romantic dinner at the Red Lobster? 
 Unequivocally. 
 Yeah. What's better than getting to select your dinner and have nice conversation while they boil it alive in the back? 87. 
 Not at all. I'm actually kind of honored. 
 (Lying out his ass) I didn't know it was. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Yum! 
. 
 I don't know but I've been told! 
 Marguerite is getting old! 
 The best thing is her dessert is free! 
 The worst thing is I sing off-key! 
 Sound off! 89. 
 Sound off! 
 Sound off! 
 What's wrong? 
 So? 
 So? 
 I thought you two weren't speaking. 
 Then why are you? 
 Exactly. I have no interest in her. I mean, we're friends, but -- 90. 
 (DISAPPOINTED) Do you want me to get the check? 
 Could we get our check? 
 (CONFUSED) Is everything okay? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (Digging in her purse) Let me get it. I have a gift certificate. 
 But I asked you out. 
 She and I just don't have much in common. 
 I think so. For instance, I, too think Nina Howell's a twat. 
 Haven't you? 
 ANSON (CONT'D) Kidding! 
 You have a remaining balance of fourteen dollars and thirty six cents. 
 Let's get out of here. 
 I have something for you. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Okay. So, what did we "do" on this date? 
 Whatever $500 gets me. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) You don't get it. I'm not technically having sex with people for money. You know that, right? Besides, even if I was, we're in the parking lot of a Red Lobster. 
 We can go wherever you want, but I think it would be kind of hot here. 
 Olive, you're being stupid. I'll take you home. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Fuck. 
 Hey Olive! 
 What are you doing here? 
 (Laughing at her oddness) You want a ride somewhere? 
 Your friend Rhi is inside. It's her Mom's birthday. 
 You wanna talk about it? 
 Huh? 
 I know what people are saying. Doesn't mean I believe them. 
 Olive, contrary to popular belief, I'm not an idiot. I know exactly what's going on and I know exactly what you're doing. 
 No one had to tell me. All I know is once upon a time, there was a scared little kid in a closet at a party who wasn't ready for his first kiss and there was this amazing little girl who lied for him. 
 Yeah and after I ran out, you pulled Brandon in. Yeah, I know about that, by the way. 
 Sometimes I still pretend you were my first kiss. 
 Your friend. Rhiannon. 
 Yeah. About a year later. It sucked. 
 How do you feel about me? 
 Wait. How do you feel about me? 
 (DISAPPOINTED) Oh. 
 Olive. If I promise not to tell anyone, could I kiss you? 
 What if I told you I wanted to be dragged into it? Maybe I could help. 
 Okay. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) The truth needed to be told and I knew I had to go the one person who could help me. The one person I could count on to set the story straight. Brandon. I'd helped him and, even though it would destroy his new reputation for being a stud, I knew he would help me. 
 Oh my God, did you hear that Brandon ran away from home? Yeah. Totally. He left his parents a note that said: `Eff you, I'm gay.' And then he skipped town with a big, hulking black guy. 
 Huh? 
 OLIVE (V.O.) (CONT'D) It gets worse. Due to his `condition,' Micah was sent on an extended visit to his grandparents in Mississippi. 
 No way. I gave you money. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Olive, life is full of choices. I made a bad one. But then, so did you. We both acted unwisely, but I don't see any other alternative than to live with the guilt. My guilt stems from my indiscretion, yours for lying. We've made our choices. Now, we have to ride them out. 
. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Fine, Olive. Let's play the `who do you believe' game. But, first, ask yourself, if you were an adult, who would you believe? 99. 
 MRS. GRIFFIN Because you helped me once, I'm not going to report that to Principal Gibbons. Now, we're even. 
 MR. GRIFFIN What? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) And that's something I'll have to live with for the rest of my life. With my words, even though they were true, I ended a marriage. No kid should have to be burdened with that. 
 MR. GRIFFIN It's not your fault. 
 MR. GRIFFIN No. It's not your fault. 
 MR. GRIFFIN Not sure yet. Away from her. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Part Five: Not With a Whimper But With a Bang. 
 20:14 
 I had a similar situation when I was your age. 
 (IN DISBELIEF) Everyone called you a whore? 
 Yes. I had a horrible reputation and people said awful things about me. But it was true. I was a slut. 
 (EARNESTLY) No, it's true. I slept with a whole bunch of people. 
 Well! It was a different time. 103. 
 I did. I got around. Before I met your father, I was a garden variety floozy. 
 Because I endured a similar lynching because of a certain dalliance. 
 Wanna bet? It was her mother. 
 Yep. Don Bryant and I got caught in a very compromising position in the locker room during a basketball game. 
 He wasn't back then. He was actually pretty handsome. All I'm saying is that MAYBE the reason that Bryant girl is going after you is because her mother told her about me. 
 There's something else you should know. This is hard to say but -- Don Bryant is your father. Marianne is your sister. 104. 
 ROSEMARY (CONT'D) Kidding!! Well, about the sister thing, but not about the Don thing. That happened. Actually that happened a couple of times before we got caught. 
 No, you're not, Olive. You're wonderful. And you're going to handle this the same way that I did. With an incontrovertible sense of humor. 
 So, Olive wasn't at school today. 
 MARIANNE (CONT'D) I'm so glad you're with us now. 
 Me too. You guys fucking rock. 105. 
 We don't say that word, Rhiannon. 
 (HELPFULLY) Just say `effing' instead. We effing rock. 
 But isn't that just implying the same word? 
 Oh, Rhiannon. We have so much to teach you. It's okay to imply things. 
 Yay! It's time for Meerkat Todd. (SEXUALLY) I just want to rip that costume off him and -- 
 Why don't you just not talk for a while, okay hon? 
. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) I wasn't lookin,' But somehow they found me. I tried to hide from Your love light. But like heaven above me The guys who loved me Are keepin' all my secrets safe tonight. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) And nobody does it better Though sometimes I wish someone could. Nobody does it quite the way I do. Why'd I have to be so good? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) The way that they hold me Whenever they hold me There's some kind of magic inside you. That keeps me from runnin', But just keep it comin'! How'd you learn to do the things you do? 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Oh, and nobody does it better. Makes me feel sad for the rest. (MORE) 107. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Nobody does it half as good as me. Baby, baby! Darlin', I'm the best! 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) Baby you're the best! Darlin', you're the best! Baby, you're the best! 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (To the student body) This is just a free preview. For the main event log on to www.freeolivep.com tonight at 6 p.m. Now, I know this conflicts with tonight's basketball game, but c'mon would you rather be here cheering on the Meerkats (Looking at Todd, LASCIVIOUSLY) or watch me do one. 
 (Through gritted teeth) Young lady, to my office. NOW. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) (SHOUTING DOWN) Who told you that I loved this song? 
 (SHOUTING UP) I guessed. 
 Fuck them. They've had enough of you. Well, figuratively speaking. I borrowed my neighbor's John Deere. Come down here. 
 Intentionally. 
 OLIVE (CONT'D) That's Todd. Not that I owe any of you any more confessions, but I'm really in love with him. And I am going to lose my virginity to him. I'm not sure when. It could happen five minutes from now or tonight or six months from now or maybe on our wedding night, but the really amazing thing is that it's nobody's business. (As an afterthought) Like, totally. 
 
 (SATISFIED) Told you guys. Pay up. 
 MICAH'S GRANDMOTHER (O.S.) Micah? What are you doing in there? (STERNLY) You had better not be on the sin- ternet. 
 
