 THEATRE, BANKSIDE 
 (O.S.) You Mongrel! Why do you howl When it is I who am bitten? 
 What am I, Mr. Lambert? 
 Bitten, Mr. Fennyman. 
 How badly bitten, Mr. Frees? 
 Twelve pounds, one shilling and four pence, Mr. Fennyman, including interest. 
 Aaagh! I can pay you! 
 When? 
 Two weeks, three at the most, Aaaagh! For pity's sake. 
 Take his feet out. Where will you get 
 (the mathematical genius with a notebook) Sixteen pounds, five shillings and nine pence 
 including interest in three weeks? 
 I have a wonderful new play! 
 Put his feet in. 
 It's a comedy. 
 Cut his nose off. 
 A new comedy. By Will Shakespeare! 
 And his ears. 
 And a share. We will be partners, Mr. Fennyman! 
 (hesitating) Partners! 
 It's a crowd-tickler--mistaken identities, a shipwreck, a pirate king, a bit with a dog, and love triumphant. 
 I think I've seen it. I didn't like it. 
 This time it is by Shakespeare. 
 What's the title? 
 Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter. 
 Good title. 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) A play takes time. Find actors… rehearsals…let's say open in three weeks. That's--what--five hundred groundlings at tuppence each, in addition four hundred groundlings tuppence each, in addition four hundred backsides at three pence--a penny extra for a cushion, call it two hundred cushions, say two performance for safety how much is that Mr. Frees? 
 Twenty pounds to the penny, Mr. Fennyman. 
 Correct! 
 But I have to pay the actors and the authors. 
 A share of the profits. 
 There's never any 
 Of course not! 
 (impressed) Mr. Fennyman, I think you may have hit on something. 
 Sign here. 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) Romeo and Ethel The Pirate's Daughter…Almost finished? 
 Without doubt he is completing it at this very moment. 
 Will! Where is my play? Tell me you have it nearly done! Tell me you have it started. (desperately) You have begun? 
 No, no, we haven't the time. Talk prose. Where is my play? 
 God be praised! (then doubt) Locked? 
 (catching up) Who is she this time?! 
 Aphrodite Baggot who does it behind the Dog and Trumpet? 
 Well, I am a dead man and buggered to boot. My theatre is close by the plague these twelve weeks, my company is playing the inn-yards of England, while Burbage and the Chamberlain's Men are invited to court and receive ten pounds to play your piece, written for my theatre, by my writer, at my risk when you were green and grateful - 
 No--it's comedy they want, Will! Comedy! Like Romeo and Ethel? 
 Nobody! You are writing it for me! I gave you three pounds a month since. 
 . . . Will! What is money to you and me? I, your patron, you my wordwright! When the plague lifts Burbage will have a new Christopher Marlowe for the Curtain and I have nothing for the Rose. 
 (staggered) Fifty pounds? What for? 
 Cut out my heart! Throw my liver to the dogs! 
 and the Lord shall smite them! Yea, harken to me. The theatres are handmaidens of the devil! Under the name of the Curtain, the players breed lewdness in your wives, rebellion in your servants, idleness in your apprentices and wickedness in your children! And the Rose smells thusly rank by any name! I say a plague on both their houses! 
 Where are you going? 
 DR. MOTH And yet you tell me you lie with women? 
 DR. MOTH I am here to help you. Tell me in your own words. 
 DR. MOTH Interesting. 
 DR. MOTH Most interesting. 
 DR. MOTH (shrewdly) Tell me, are you lately humbled in the act of love? 
 DR. MOTH No, no. You have a wife, children 
 DR. MOTH A woman of property? 
 DR. MOTH And your relations? 
 DR. MOTH No, your marriage bed. 
 DR. MOTH So now you are free to love 
 DR. MOTH Here is a bangle found in Psyche's temple on Olympus cheap at four pence. Write your name on a paper and feed it in the snake. 
 DR. MOTH The woman who wears the snake will dream of you, and your gift will return. Words will flow like a river. I will see you in a week. 
 Now where? Will? 
 Crab is nervous. He has never played the Palace. When will you write me a tragedy, Will? I could do it. 
 (to ROSALINE) My sleeve wants for a button, Mistress Rosaline, where were my seamstress's eyes? 
 BURBAGE (CONT'D) There is no dog in the first scene, Will Kempe, thank you. How goes it Will? 
 Not from me. I only stole it. When are you coming over to the Chamberlain's Men? 
 Are you writing? 
 What is the chief part? 
 The title? 
 I will play him. Bring it tomorrow. 
 How much? 
 You're a liar. 
 Ned is wrong for it. 
 BURBAGE (CONT'D) (to WILL) Here is two sovereigns--I'll give you two more when you show me the pages. 
 (arriving) Burbage, I will see you hanged for a pickpocket. 
 The Queen has commanded, she loves a comedy and the Master of the Revels favours us. 
 And what favour does Mr. Tilney receive from you? 
 Ask him. 
 She comes! 
 When will you write me a sonnet, Will? 
 You left it in my bed. Come to look for it again. 
 Burbage has my keeping but you have my heart. 
 Is it about a pirate's daughter? 
. 
 You see? Comedy. 
 Well played, Master Crab, I commend you. 
 Love and a bit with a dog, that's what they like. 
 There's a lady knows your play by heart. 
 Did you like Proteus or Valentine best? Proteus for speaking, Valentine for looks. 
 I liked the dog, for laughs. 
 But Silvia I did not care for much. His fingers were red from fighting and he spoke like a schoolboy at lessons. Stage love will never be true love while the law of the land has our heroines played by pipsqueak boys in petticoats! Oh, when can we see another? 
 When the Queen commands it. 
 But at the playhouse. Nurse? 
 Be still. 
 NURSE (CONT'D) Playhouses are not for well-born ladies. 
 I am not so well-born. 
 Well-monied is the same as well-born and well-married is more so. Lord Wessex was looking at you tonight. 
 All the men at court are without poetry. If they look at me they see my father's fortune. I will have poetry in my life. And adventure. And love. Love above all. 
 Like Valentine and Silvia? 
 No . . . not the artful postures of love, but love that over- throws life. Unbiddable, ungovernable, like a riot in the heart, and nothing to be done, come ruin or rapture. Love like there has never been in a play. (beat) I will have love or I will end my days as a . . . 
 As a nurse. 
 (kissing her) But I would be Valentine and Silvia too. Good Nurse, God save you and good night. I would stay asleep my whole life if I could dream myself into a company of players. 
 Clean your teeth while you dream, then. 
 NURSE (CONT'D) Now spit 
 This time we take your boots off! 
 What have I done, Mr. Fennyman? 
 The theatres are all closed by the plague! 
 Oh, that. 
 by order of the Master of the Revels! 
 Mr. Fennyman, let me explain about the theatre business. (they stop) The natural condition is one of insurmountable obstacles on the road to imminent disaster. Believe me, to be close by the plague is a bagatelle in the ups and downs of owning a theatre. 
 So what do we do? 
 Nothing. Strangely enough , it all turns out well. 
 How? 
 I don't know. It's a mystery. 
 (dumbly) Should I kill him, Mr. Fennyman? 
 The theatres are reopened. By order of the Master of the Revels, the theatres are reopened 
 Mr. Fennyman! Mr. Tilney has opened the playhouses. 
 Yes I heard. 
 (to LAMBERT) If you wouldn't mind 
 Where is the play? 
 Oh, it's coming, it's coming. 
 Will! The theatres are 
 Rosaline? You mean Ethel. 
 Like you, I found him not at home! 
 Will! 
 What does Burbage care of that? He is readying the Curtain for Kit Marlowe. 
 I have, Master Shakespeare. 
 (sighs) Yes, I know. But he was always hanging around the house. 
 (to WILL, leaving) Will…you're the only one, Will!--in my heart. 
 (excitedly) Mr. Henslowe! 
 Yes, I heard. The theatres are open. But where is my playwright? 
 Chalk it up, Nol. I'm hungry, too. 
 The special today is a pig's foot marinated in juniper-berry vinegar, served with a buckwheat pancake which has been 
 Will! Have you finished? 
 Ned Alleyn and the Admiral's Men are out on tour. I need actors. Those here who are unknown will have a chance to be known. 
 What about the money, Mr. Henslowe? 
 It won't cost you a penny! Auditions in half-an-hour! 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) Ralph Bashford! I'd have a part for you but, alas, I hear you are a drunkard's drunkard. 
 Never when I'm working. 
 Straight up, Will? 
 Give my friend a beaker of your best brandy. 
. 
 How goes it, Will? 
 Burbage says you have a play. 
 Not new--my Doctor Faustus. 
 I have a new one nearly done, and better. The Massacre at Paris. 
 And yours? 
 What is the story? 
 Romeo is…Italian. Always in and out of love. 
 Ethel. 
 The daughter of his enemy. 
 His best friend is killed in a duel by Ethel's brother or something. His name is Mercutio. 
 Will--they're waiting for you! 
 I thought your play was for Burbage. 
 (trying to work it out) A different one you haven't written? 
 " …Was this the face that launched a thousand ships, And burnt the topless towers of Ilium? Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss!" 
 Thank you. 
 I would like to give you something from Faustus by Christopher Marlowe. 
 How refreshing. 
 "Was this the face that launched a thousand ships, And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?" 
 (bellows) Thank you! 
 "W-w-w-w-was th-th-this th-th-the f-f- f-face…" 
 (unexpectedly) Very good, Mr. Wabash. Excellent. Report to the property master. 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) (apologetically) My tailor. Wants to be an actor. I have a few debts here and there. Well, that seems to be everybody. Did you see a Romeo? 
 Well, I to my work, you to yours. When can I see pages? 
 May I begin, sir? 
 What are we playing? 
 Where are the pages? 
 B-b-b-b-break a l-l-l-leg! 
 Right you are, governor! 
 BOATMAN (CONT'D) I know your face. Are you an actor? 
 Yes, I've seen you in something. That one about a king. 
 I had the Christopher Marlowe in my boat once. 
 Sir Robert De Lesseps. 
 God save you, mother. (to NURSE) Ho water, nurse. 
 (O.S.) Thomas Kent, sir? No sir. 
 Who asks for him? 
 Master Kent is…my nephew. 
 Much god may it do you. 
 (delighted) He sees himself in me! Romeo Montague, a young man of Verona. 
 (unimpressed) Verona again. 
 (devouring the letter) A comedy of quarreling families reconciled in the discovery of Romeo to be the very same Capulet cousin stolen from the cradle and fostered to manhood by his Montague mother that was robbed of her own child by the Pirate King! 
 Be off! 
 Your mother, and your father 
 (gaily) From tomorrow, away in the country for three weeks! Is Master Shakespeare not handsome? 
 He looks well enough for a mountebank. 
 Oh, Nurse! He would give Thomas Kent the life of Viola De Lesseps's dreaming. 
 (firmly) My lady, this play will end badly. I will tell. 
 (twice as firmly) You will not tell. As you love me and as I love you, you will bind my breast and buy me a boy's wig! 
 A five shilling business, Will. We play for the dancing. 
 Musicians don't eat, Sir Robert's orders. 
 She is a beauty, my lord, as would take a king to church for a dowry of a nutmeg. 
 My plantations in Virginia are not mortgaged for a nutmeg. I have an ancient name that will bring you preferment when your grandson is a Wessex. Is she fertile? 
 She will breed. If she do not, send her back. 
 Is she obedient? 
 As any mule in Christendom. But if you are the man to rider her, their are rubies in the saddlebag. 
 I like her. 
 Viola de Lesseps. Dream on, Will. 
 Master Shakespeare 
 My lady Viola. 
 My lord. 
 I have spoken with your father. 
 So my lord? I speak with him every day. 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) Good sir… ? 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) I heard you are a poet. 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) But a poet of no words? 
 (smiling evilly) "Poet?" 
 By coveting my property. I cannot shed blood in her house but I will cut your throat anon. You have a name? 
 Romeo, Romeo . . . a young man of Verona. A comedy. By William Shakespeare. 
 (gasps) Who is there? 
 Anon, good nurse. Anon. (to WILL) Master Shakespeare?! 
 Oh but why "alas?" 
 Alas indeed, for I thought you the highest poet of my esteem and a writer of plays that capture my heart. 
 (to NURSE) Anon, anon! (to WILL) I will come again. 
 If they find you here they will kill you. 
 Oh, not for the world! 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) Anon, nurse! 
 "Draw if you be men! (to JAMES) Gregory, remember thy washing blow." 
 "Part, fools, put up your swords." 
 It starts well, and then it's all long- faced about some Rosaline. Where's the comedy, Will. Where's the dog? (to RALPH) Do you think it is funny? 
 I was a Pirate King, now I'm a Nurse. That's funny 
 We are at least four acts short, Will, if you are looking for disaster. 
 Is it going well? 
 Very well. 
 But nothing is happening. 
 Yes, but very well. 
 Who is that? 
 Nobody. The author. 
 It is customary to make a little speech on the first day. It does no harm and authors like it. 
 Huzzah! The Admiral's Men are returned to the house! 
 Who is this? 
 (roars) Silence, you god! I am Hieronimo! I am Tamburlaine! I am Faustus! I am Barrabas, the Jew of Malta--of yes, Master Will, and I am Henry VI. What is the play, and what is my part? 
 A moment, sir! 
 (roars) Who are you? 
 (bleating) I am the money! 
 Then you may remain so long as you remain silent. Pay attention and you will see how genius creates a legend. 
 (respectfully) Thank you, sir. 
 And the title of this piece? 
 Is it? 
 I will play him! 
 (hoarsely) I am, Master Shakespeare. 
 (a girlie voice now) No, no, a touch of cold only. We suspect he is lying but WILL has turned away. 
 I saw his Tamburlaine, you know. Wonderful. 
 Of course, it was mighty writing. There is no one like Marlowe 
. 
 URCHIN (CONT'D) Plenty of blood. That is the only writing. 
 URCHIN (CONT'D) Wait, you'll see the cat bites his head off. 
 "I would thou wert so happy by thy stay To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away." 
 (not understanding) What? Who? 
 The one who came with your letter? 
 Juliet? You mean Ethel. 
 Will…Where is Mercutio? 
 A sonnet? You mean a play. 
 Two hours at prayer! 
 Lady Viola is pious, my lord. 
 Piety is for Sunday! And two hours at prayer is not piety, it is self- importance! 
 It would be better that you return tomorrow, my lord. 
 It would be better that you tell her to get off her knees and show some civility to her six-day lord and master. 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) My lady VIOLA. 
 Lord Wessex. You have been waiting. 
 I am aware of it, but it is beauty's privilege. 
 You flatter, my lord. 
 No. I have spoken to the Queen. (pause) Her majesty's consent is requisite when a Wessex takes a wife, and once gained, her consent is her command. 
 Do you intend to marry, my lord? 
 Your father should keep you better informed. He has bought me for you. He returns from his estates to see us married two weeks from Saturday. (pause) You are allowed to show your pleasure. 
 I do not love you, my lord. 
 How your mind hops about! Your father was a shopkeeper, your children will bear arms, and I will recover my fortune. That is the only matter under discussion today. You will like Virginia. 
 Virginia?! 
 Why, yes! My fortune lies in my plantations. The tobacco weed. I need four thousand pounds to fit out a ship and put my investments to work--I fancy tobacco has a future. We will not stay there long, three or four years . . . 
 But why me? 
 It was your eyes. No, your lips. 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) Will you defy your father and your Queen? 
 The Queen has consented? 
 She wants to inspect you. At Greenwich, come Sunday. Be submissive, modest, grateful and brief. 
 (forced to submit) I will do my duty, my lord. 
 Gentlemen upstage, ladies downstage! 
 ALLEYN (CONT'D) (furious) Gentlemen upstage! Ladies downstage! Are you a lady, Mr. Kent? 
 The speech is excellent. (he does the first line impressively) "Oh, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you!" Excellent and a good length. But then he disappears for the length of a bible. 
. 
 He dies? 
 Will! 
 BURBAGE (CONT'D) And where are my pages . . . 
 Writer, is he? 
 Oh, Will! 
 Thank you, my lady! 
 Viola De Lesseps. Known her since she was this high. Wouldn't deceive a child. 
 BOATMAN (CONT'D) (reaching under his seat) Strangely enough, I'm a bit of a writer myself. 
 BOATMAN (CONT'D) It wouldn't take you long to read it, I expect you know all the booksellers . . . 
 Can you love a player? 
 Answer me only this: are you the author of the plays of William Shakespeare? 
 Then kiss me again for I am not mistook. 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) I do not know how to undress a man. 
 Go to, go to. 
 I would not have thought it. There is something better than a play. 
 Even your play. 
 And that was only my first try. 
 Will 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) You would not leave me? 
 (pulling him down) Moonlight! 
 It was the owl--come to bed 
 (pausing, pushing him away) Mr. Henslowe? 
 Oh--no, no! 
 It is broad day! (the rooster crows again) The rooster tells us so! 
 You would leave us players without a scene to read today?! 
 My lady, the house is stirring, it is a new day. 
 It is a new world! 
 (prompting her) It's you. 
 (roars) Suffering cats! 
 (to Will, sarcastically) Well! It was lucky you were here! Why do not I write the rest of your play while you 
 (to Will) Oh let it be night! 
 Oh, do not go 
 (O.S.) (roaring from the audience) Terrible! 
 VIOLA (VO) "But soft, what light through yonder window breaks? It is the east and Juliet is the sun!" 
 (reading) "Arise fair sun and kill the envious moon Who is already sick and pale with grief That thou her maid art far more fair than she…" 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) Oh, Will! 
 (continuing reading) "It is my lady, O it is my love! O that she knew she were!" 
 That's my line! 
 (calling to the NURSE who is outside) Anon, good Nurse 
 (almost to herself) "I am feared, 
 (to NED) I cannot move in this dress! and it makes me look like a pig! I have no neck in this pig dress! (and then hearing his cue from "ROMEO") Oh, she's off again! She says she's going and then she doesn't 
 (shrugs) It's all right. 
 It's good. 
 The title won't do. 
 Romeo and Juliet--just a suggestion. 
 And you are a Warwickshire shit-house. 
 (in disbelief) You mean, no dog of any kind? 
 (to HENSLOWE) The Friar married them in secret, then Ned gets into a fight with one of the Capulets, Romeo tries to stop them, he gets in Ned's way, I mean in Mercutio's way, so Tybalt kills Mercutio and then Romeo kills Tybalt. Then the Prince banishes him from Verona. 
 (much relieved) That must be when he goes on the voyage and gets shipwrecked on the island of the Pirate King. 
 Cease your prattling! Get out! (to the stage where the action has paused) A thousand apologies! 
 Oh, but it will end well for love? 
 (sobered) Yes, this is not life, Will. This is a stolen season. 
 (O.S.) Not ready? Where is she? 
 (O.S.) Be patient, my lord, she is dressing. 
 (O.S.) Will you ask Her Majesty to be patient?! 
 Sunday! Greenwich! 
. 
 Now, pay attention, Nursy. The Queen, Gloriana Regina, God's Chosen Vessel, the Radiant One, who shines her light on us, is at Greenwich today, and prepared, during the evening's festivities, to bestow her gracious favour on my choice of wife--and if we're late for lunch, the old boot will not forgive. So you get you to my lady's chamber and produce her with or without her undergarments. 
 What will you have me do? Marry you instead? 
 (tartly) You follow your desire freely enough in the night. So, if that is all, to Greenwich I go. 
 You cannot, Wessex will kill you 
 (now fixing her hair) Stage fighting! (turn to him) Oh, Will! As Thomas Kent my heart belongs to you but as Viola the river divides us, and I will marry Wessex a week from Saturday. 
 (ranting) By heaven, I will drag her down, by the Queen's command 
 Good morning, my lord! 
 (impressed by her appearance) Ah! My lady! The tide waits for no man, but I swear it would wait for you! 
 (taken aback) Are you bringing your laundry woman? 
 On a more fortuitous occasion, perhaps 
 (to him) Now? 
 (to Viola) The Queen asks for you. Answer well. 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) Is there a man? 
 (impatiently) There was a man, poet--a theatre poet, I heard--does he come to the house? 
 An insolent penny-a-page rogue, Marlowe, he said, Christopher Marlowe--has he been to the house? 
 (venomously) That dog! 
 Your Majesty. 
 Stand up straight, girl. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) I have seen you. You are the one who comes to all the plays--at Whitehall, at Richmond. 
 (agreeing) Your Majesty. 
 What do you love so much? 
 Your Majesty 
 Speak out! I know who I am. Do you love stories of kings and queens? Feats of arms? Or is it courtly love? 
 I love theatre. To have stories acted for me by a company of fellows is indeed 
 (interrupting) They are not acted for you, they are acted for me. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) And--? 
 And I love poetry above all. 
 Above Lord Wessex? 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) (to WESSEX) My Lord--when you cannot find your wife you had better look for her at the playhouse. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) But playwrights teach nothing about love, they make it pretty, they make it comical, or they make it lust. They cannot make it true. 
 (blurts) Oh, but they can! 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) I mean…Your Majesty, they do not, they have not, but I believe there is one who can 
 Lady Viola is…young in the world. Your Majesty is wise in it. Nature and truth are the very enemies of playacting. I'll wager my fortune. 
 I thought you were here because you had none. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) (by way of dismissing him) Well, no one will take your wager, it seems. 
 Fifty pounds! A very worthy sum on a very worthy question. Can a play show us the very truth and nature of love? I bear witness to the wager, and will be the judge of it as occasion arises. (which wins a scatter of applause. She gathers her skirts and stands) I have not seen anything to settle it yet. (she moves away, everybody bowing and scraping) So--the fireworks will be soothing after the excitements of Lady Viola's audience. (and now she is next to WESSEX who is bowing low. Intimately to him) Have her then, but you are a lordly fool. She has been plucked since I saw her last, and not by you. It takes a woman to know it. 
 (to himself) Marlowe! 
 Burbage! 
 BURBAGE'S VOICE Who's there? 
 Marlowe. 
 BURBAGE'S VOICE Kit! 
 You are playing my Faustus this afternoon. Don't spend yourself in sport. 
 (working hard) This afternoon!--we'll still be here this afternoon. 
 What do you want, Kit? 
 My Massacre at Paris is complete. 
 You have the last act? 
 You have the money? 
 Tomorrow. 
 (leaving) Then tomorrow you will have the pages. 
 Wait! (to ROSALINE) Will you desist! 
 Twenty pounds on delivery 
 What is money to me like us? Besides, if I need a play, I have another waiting, a comedy by Shakespeare. 
 Romeo?--he gave it to Henslowe. 
 Never! 
 Well, I am to Deptford now, I leave my respects, Miss Rosaline. 
 I gave Shakespeare two sovereigns for Romeo! 
 (leaving) You did. But Ned Alleyn and the Admiral's Men have the playing of it as the Rose. 
 Treachery! 
 BURBAGE (CONT'D) Traitor and thief! 
. 
 Are you going to do it like that? And before the humbled actor can reply NED continues. 
 Where is that thieving hack who can't keep his pen in his own ink pot!? 
 (to HENSLOWE) Wonderful, wonderful! And a dog! 
 Not with my props! 
 Will! What--? 
 We need that for the balcony scene! 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) (in despair) My poor Rose! 
 (horrified) My investment! LAMBERT!!! 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) (points at the fray) 
! 
 I want no more trouble, Mr. Fennyman. As I explained to you, the theatre business 
 Henslowe, you pound of tripe, in my business I would be out of business if I had your courage, so don't tell me about business 
 (shouts) A famous victory! Kegs and legs. Open and on the house! Oh what happy hour! (and grabbing a RADDLED 
) Poxy Pol! You keep yourself to yourself I'll not have you infecting my investment! 
 I remember you! The poet! 
 (to VIOLA) Oh, he's a pretty one! Tell me your story while I tickle your fancy! 
 (declining the glass) Never when I'm working! 
 Never tried it? Never? (groping him) I think you are ready, Sam! 
 (raising his glass) You are welcome to my best house! Here's to the Admiral's Men! 
. 
 (to the PRETTIEST WHORE) I…quite liked it. 
 Master Kent! You have not dipped your wick? 
 (embracing WILL) By heaven, I thank you! I will be your Apothecary! 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) I am to be in your play. 
 (to RALPH) And what is this play about? 
 Well, there's this Nurse 
 Mr. Shakespeare has given me the part of the Apothecary! 
 The Apothecary? Will, what is the story? Where is the shipwreck? How does the comedy end? 
 By God, Will, if you do not, who does? Let us have pirates, clowns, and a happy ending, or we will send you back to Stratford to your wife! 
 (shouts) Will! Mr. Henslowe! Gentlemen all! 
 PETER (CONT'D) A black day for us all! There is news come up river from Deptford. Marlowe is dead. 
 PETER (CONT'D) Stabbed! Stabbed to death in a tavern at Deptford! 
 (standing up) He was the first man among us. A great light has gone out. 
 You look sad, my lady! Let me take you riding. 
 It is not my riding day, my lord. 
 Bless me, I thought it was a horse. 
 I am going to church. 
 (recomposing his features to solemnity) I understand of course. It is to be expected. 
 It is to be expected on a Sunday. 
 And on a day of mourning. I never met the fellow but once at your house. 
 (cannot take this in) Mourning? Who is dead, my lord? 
 Oh!--dear God, I did not think it would be me to tell you. A great loss to playwriting, and to dancing. 
 (faintly) He is dead? 
 (cheerfully solemn) Killed last night, in a tavern! Come, then, we'll say a prayer for his soul 
 My lady…my lady…now is the time to show your breeding. 
 Oh, spare me, dear ghost, spare me for the love of Christ! 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) (screaming) Spare me! 
 Will! 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) Oh, my love, I thought you were dead! 
 You never spoke so well of him. 
 You lie. 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) You lie in your meadow as you lied in my bed. 
 Calf love. I loved the writer, and gave up the prize for a sonnet. 
 Yes--you were deceived. For I never loved you till now. 
 (declaring herself) I love you, Will, beyond poetry. 
 You were not dead before. When I thought you dead, I did not care about all the plays that will never come, only that I would never see your face. I saw our end, and it will come. 
 If not Wessex the Queen will know the cause and there will be no more Will Shakespeare. 
 (through his kisses) But I will go to Wessex as a widow from these vows, as solemn as they are unsanctified. 
 ACTOR (EDWARD) Is that me. Will? 
 That's me. 
. 
 Well, that will have them rolling in the aisles. 
 Sad and wonderful! I have a blue velvet cap which will do well, I have seen apothecary with a cap just so. 
 (to WILL) Yes--it will serve. But there's a scene missing between marriage and death. 
 Will you read it for me? 
 (reading) "It was the lark, the herald of the morn, No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east. Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. I must be gone and live, or stay and die." 
 "I have more care to stay than will to go. Come death, and welcome. Juliet wills it so. How is't my soul? Let's talk. It is not day." 
 You will go far, I fear. 
 TILNEY (CONT'D) I hope we work together again. Tilney walks away. 
 "Such mortal drugs I have but Mantua's law Is death to any he that utters them." Then him. Then me. 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) "Such mortal drugs I have…" What is it? What is it? 
 My lord! 
 (shouts) Shakespeare! 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) You upstart inky pup! Now I will show you your place, which is in hell! 
 (drawing his sword) By God, I'll fight the lot of you 
 Will 
 I rejoiced at his death because I thought it was yours. That is all I know of Marlowe. 
 It's true, Will--it was a tavern brawl…Marlowe attacked, and got his own knife in the eye. A quarrel about the bill 
 The bill! Oh, vanity, vanity! 
 Not the billing, the bill! 
 Close it! 
 My Lord Wessex! 
 (foaming) Close it! Take it down stone by stone! I want it ploughed into the ground, and sown with quick lime! 
 Mr. Tilney, what is this? 
 Sedition and indecency! 
 What?! 
 Master of the Revels, sir, over here, sir. 
 (to WEBSTER) Where, boy? 
 (points) I saw her bubbies! 
 (shocked and gratified) A woman on the stage? A woman? 
 I swear it! 
. 
 So, Henslowe! I say this theatre is closed! On the authority of the powers invested in my by the court--I close this theatre! 
 Why so? 
 (triumphantly) For lewdness and unshamefacedness! For displaying a female on the public stage! 
 (pointing at SAM) Not him. (pointing at VIOLA) her. 
 He's a woman! 
 That's who I meant! This theatre is closed! Notice will be posted! 
 (to NED) Ned, I swear I knew nothing of this! 
 (hoping to protect WILL) Nobody knew! 
 (pointing at WILL) He did! I saw him kissing her bubbies! 
 Closed! Closed, mark you, Henslowe! 
 (in despair) It is over. 
 I am so sorry, Mr. Henslowe. I wanted to be an actor. (she turns to WILL) I am sorry, Will. 
 Y-y-y-you w-w-w-were w-w-w-w- wonderful. 
 Thank you. 
 Everything all right? 
 (muttering) I would have been good…I would have been great. 
 So would I. We both would. 
 (shouts) Lambert! 
 FENNYMAN (CONT'D) Kill him! 
. 
 Well, Burbage--you never did know when your scene was over. 
 That can wait. The Master of the Revels despises us for vagrants, tinkers, and peddlers of bombast. But my father, James Burbage, had the first licence to make a company of players from Her Majesty, and he drew from poets the literature of the age. Their fame will be our fame. So let them all know, we are men of parts. We are a brotherhood, and we will be a profession. Will Shakespeare has a play. I have a theatre. The Curtain is yours. 
 MR. BURBAGE A HUGH FENNYMAN PRODUCTION OF MR. HENSLOWE'S PRESENTATION OF THE ADMIRAL'S MEN IN PERFORMANCE OF THE EXCELLENT AND LAMENTABLE TRAGEDY OF ROMEO AND JULIET with Mr. Fennyman as the Apothecary 
 Will! 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) We'll be needing a Romeo 
 My ship is moored at Bankside, bound for Virginia on the afternoon tide--please do not weep, Lady De Lesseps, you are gaining a colony. 
 And you are gaining five thousand pounds, my lord…by these drafts in my hand. 
 Would you oblige me with fifty or so in gold?--just to settle my accounts at the dockside? 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) Ah!--Look, she comes! 
. 
 Good morning, my lord. I see you are open for business so let's to church. 
 My lord! 
 NURSE (CONT'D) Be good to her, my lord! 
 I will. 
 God bless you! 
 Thank you. Let go, there's a good nurse. 
 WESSEX (CONT'D) The tide will not wait. Farewell! 
 Licentiousness is made a show, vice is made a show, vanity and pride likewise made a show! This is the very business of show 
 "ROMEO." FENNYMAN approaches him, apothecary's cap in hand. 
 Is this all right? 
. 
 (mutter) T-t-t-two h-h-households b-both alike in d-d-d-dignity. 
 No, it will turn out well. 
 I don't know, it's a mystery. 
 W-w-w-was it g-g-g-good? 
 (nervously--in a deep bass guttural hoarse voice) Master Shakespeare 
 (in the same voice) It is not my fault, Master Shakespeare. I could do it yesterday. 
 (the effect is horrible) "Parting is such sweet sorrow…" 
 Another little problem. 
 The show must … you know 
 Juliet does not come on for twenty pages. It will be all right. 
 I don't know. It's a mystery. 
 Can we talk? 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) (whispering to BURBAGE) We have no Juliet! 
 (forgetting to whisper) No Juliet?! 
 (turning) No Juliet?! 
 it will be all right, madam. 
 What happened to Sam? 
 Who are you? 
 Thomas Kent! 
 Do you know it? 
 (showing the manuscript) Every word. 
 We will all be put in the clink. 
 (shrugs) See you in jail. 
 "Such mortal drugs I have but Mantua's Law Is death to any he that utters them." Then him. Then me. 
 ALLEYN A MERCUTIO Ask for me tomorrow and you shall find me a grave man." 
 (whispers to himself) I was good. I was great. 
 (involuntarily) Dead! 
 (shouts triumphantly) I arrest you in the name of Queen Elizabeth! 
 Arrest who, Mr. Tilney? 
 Everybody! The Admiral's Men, The Chamberlain's Men and everyone of you ne'er-do-wells who stands in contempt of the authority invested in me by her Majesty. 
 Contempt? You closed the Rose--I have not opened it. 
 (he points a "j'accuse" finger at VIOLA) That woman is a woman! 
 What?! A woman?! You mean that goat?! 
 I'll see you all in the clink! In the same of her Majesty Queen Elizabeth 
 Mr. Tilney…! 
 Have a care with my name, you will wear it out. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) The Queen of England does not attend exhibitions of public lewdness so something is out of joint. Come here, Master Kent. Let me look at you. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) Yes, the illusion is remarkable and your error, Mr. Tilney, easily forgiven, but I know something of a woman in a man's profession, yes, by God, I do know about that. That is enough from you, Maser Kent. If only Lord Wessex were here. 
 He is, Ma'am. 
 (weakly) Your Majesty 
 There was a wager, I remember…as to whether a play can show the very truth and nature of love. I think you lost it today. (turning to WEBSTER) You are an eager boy. Did you like the play? 
 I liked it when she stabbed herself, your Majesty. 
 Master Shakespeare. Next time to you come to Greenwich, Come as yourself and we will speak some more. WILL bows deeply. The turns to leave. The waves part for her. 
 Your Majesty! 
 Why, Lord Wessex! Lost your wife so soon? 
 Indeed I am a bride short. How is this to end? 
 As stories must when love's denied--with tears and a journey. Those whom God has joined in marriage, not even I can put asunder. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) (she turns to VIOLA) Lord Wessex, as I foretold, has lost his wife in the play- house--go make your farewell and send her out. It's time to settle accounts. (to WESSEX) How much was the wager? 
 Fifty shillings. (the QUEEN gives him a look) Pounds. 
 Give it to Master Kent. He will see it rightfully home. WESSEX gives his purse to VIOLA. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) (to VIOLA) And tell Shakespeare something more cheerful next time for Twelfth Night. 
 QUEEN (CONT'D) Too late, too late. 
 A hired player no longer. Fifty pounds, Will, for the poet of true love. 
 It was we ourselves did that. And for my life to come I would not have it otherwise. 
 If my hurt is to be that you will write no more, then I shall be the sorrier. 
 VIOLA (CONT'D) The Queen commands a comedy, Will for Twelfth Night. 
 An excellent beginning (a beat) Let him be…a duke. And your heroine? 
 (adjusting) At sea, then--a voyage to a new world?…she lands upon a vast and empty shore. She is brought to the duke…Orsino. 
 But fearful of her virtue, she comes to him dressed as a boy 
 But all ends well. 
 I don't know. It's a mystery 
 Nor you for me. 
 
