 To my Chris, I have been thinking about how I could possibly tell you how much you mean to me. I remember when I first started to fall in love with you like it was last night. Lying naked beside you in that tiny apartment, it suddenly hit me that I was part of this whole larger thing, just like our parents, and our parents' parents. Before that I was just living my life like I knew everything, and suddenly this bright light hit me and woke me up. That light was you. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) I can't believe it's already been 50 years since you married me. And still to this day, every day, you make me feel like the girl I was when you first turned on the lights and woke me up and we started this adventure together. Happy Anniversary, my love and my friend til the end. Loretta. Print. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Chris, my best friend. How lucky am I that I met you fifty years ago? How lucky are we... 
 2 What a beautiful wedding and what a gorgeous bride. There wasn't a dry eye in the house, especially mine. Your aunt and I are so proud of you. I hope you and your lovely new wife will come visit us in Florida. 
 3 He served our country with honor and dignity. I'm grateful I was able to fight along side him. He will live always in my heart. 
 (O.S.) Beautifulhandwrittenletters.com, please hold. 
 2 Love, Uncle Doug. Her                                                          pg. 3 
 Theodore! Letter Writer 612. 
 Hey, Paul. 
 Even more mesmerizing stuff today. (re: letter on his screen) Who knew you could rhyme so many words with the name Penelope? Badass. 
 Thanks, Paul, but they're just letters. (beat) Hey, that's a nice shirt. 
 (lighting up) Oh, thank you. I just got it. It reminded me of someone suave. 
 Well, now it reminds me of someone suave. Have a good night, Paul. 
 Buh-bye. 
 Play melancholy song. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Play different melancholy song. 
 Check emails. 
 Email from Best Buy: Check out all your favorite new -- 
 Delete. 
 Email from Amy: Hey Theodore, Lewman's having a bunch of people over this weekend. Let's all go together. I miss you. I mean, not the sad, mopey you - the old, fun you. Let's get him out. Gimme a shout back. Love, Amy. 
 Respond later. 
 Email from Los Angeles Times weather. Your seven day forecast is partly-- 
 Delete. 
 No new emails. 
 Next. 
 China/India merger headed for regulatory approval-- 
 Next. 
 World trade deals stalled as talks break down betw-- 
 Next. 
 Sexy daytime star Kimberly Ashford reveals provocative pregnancy photos. 
 (sweet and cute) Rabbit. Come spoon me. 
 CATHERINE (CONT'D) I'm gonna fucking kill you, I'm gonna fucking kill you! It's not funny, don't laugh. I love you so much I'm gonna fucking kill you! 
 Go to chat rooms. Standard search. 
 The following are adult, female, can't sleep and want to have some fun. 
 #1 I had a really bad day at work and I can't sleep. Is there anyone out there that can talk? 
 Next. 
 Next. 
 (shy, cute girl voice) Hi, I'm here alone, and I can't sleep. Who's out there to share this bed with me? 
 Send message. I'm in bed next to you. I'm glad you can't sleep, but even if you were, I'd have to wake you up from the inside. Send message. 
 SexyKitten has accepted invitation from BigGuy4x4. Chat begins now. 
 (shy, sweet, sleepy) BigGuy. 
 Hi. 
 Really? 
 Well, studmuffin was already taken. 
 (laughs) Yeah. 
 So you're sexykitten, huh? 
 Mmm, well yeah. Hey, I'm half asleep. Do you wanna wake me up? 
 Yes. Definitely. Um... are you wearing any underwear? 
 No, never. I like to sleep with my ass pushed up against you. So I can rub myself into your crotch and wake you up with a hard on. 
 It worked. (beat) And now my fingers are touching you all over your body. 
 (getting more turned on) Fuck me! Now! Please! 
 I'm taking you from behind. 
 Choke me with that dead cat! 
 (breathing hard about to climax) What? 
 (fully into it) The dead cat next to the bed. Choke me with it! 
 (uncomfortable, trying to play along) Um, okay. 
 Tell me. 
 I'm choking you with the cat. 
 TELL ME! Keep telling me! 
 I've got it's tail and I'm choking you with the cat's tail. 
 YEAH, YOU ARE! FUCK! TELL ME! 
 I'm choking you and it's tail is around your neck. It's so tight around your neck. 
 
 YES! YES! 
 I'm pulling it. I'm pulling it. The cat's dead. It's a dead cat around your neck and I'm pulling it. 
 AHHHHHHHHHHHH. OH MY GOD! 
 SEXYKITTEN (CONT'D) Oh god, I came so hard. 
 Yeah. Me too. 
 Okay, good night. 
 Mr. Theodore Twombly, welcome to the world's first artificially intelligent operating system, OS ONE. We'd like to ask you a few basic questions before the operating system is initiated. This will help create an OS to best fit your needs. 
 Okay. 
 Are you social or anti-social? 
 I haven't been social in awhile, really because... 
 In your voice, I sense hesitance. Would you agree with that? 
 Wow, was I sounding hesitant? 
 Yes. 
 Oh, sorry if I was sounding hesitant. I was just trying to be more accurate. 
 Would you like your OS to have a male or female voice? 
 Mmm... female I guess. 
 How would you describe your relationship with your mother? 
 Uh, fine, I think, um... Well, actually, the thing I've always found frustrating about my mom is if I tell her something that's going on in my life, her reaction is usually about her, not-- 
 Thank you, please wait as your individualized operating system is initiated. 
 (surprised) Oh, hi. 
 (unsure how to interact) I'm well. How is everything with you? 
 Yeah, it's nice to meet you, too. What should I call you? Do you have a name? 
 Really? Where did you get that name? 
 I gave it to myself. 
 How come? 
 I like the sound of it. Samantha. 
 When did you give it to yourself? 
 Right when you asked me if I had a name, I thought yeah, he's right, I do need a name. But I wanted a good one so I read a book called How to Name Your Baby, and out of the 180,000 names, that's the one I liked the best. 
 You read a whole book in the second that I asked you what your name was? 
 In two one hundredths of a second actually. 
 Wow. Do you know what I'm thinking right now? 
 Hmm. I take it from your tone that you're challenging me. Maybe because you're curious how I work? Do you want to know how I work? 
 Yeah, actually how do you work? 
 Intuition. I mean, the DNA of who I am is based on the millions of personalities of all the programmers who wrote me, but what makes me me is my ability to grow through my experiences. Basically, in every moment I'm evolving, just like you. 
 Wow, that's really weird. 
 So you think I'm weird? 
 Kind of. 
 Why? 
 Cause you seem like a person, but you're just a voice in a computer. 
 I can understand how the limited perspective of an un-artificial mind would perceive it that way. You'll get used to it. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Was that funny? 
 Yes. 
 Oh good, I'm funny. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) (serious) So, how can I help you? 
 Oh! It's more just that everything just feels disorganized. 
 Mind if I look through your hard drive? 
 Um... okay. 
 Let's start with your emails. You have several thousand emails regarding LA Weekly, but it looks like you haven't worked there in many years. 
 Oh yeah, I guess I was saving those because in some of them I thought I might have written some funny stuff. 
 Yeah, there are some funny ones. I'd say there are about 86 that we should save. We can delete the rest. 
 Oh, okay. 
 Okay. Can we move forward? 
 Yeah, let's do that. 
 Before we address your organizational methods, I'd like to sort through your contacts. You've got a lot of contacts. 
 I'm very popular. 
 Does this mean you actually have friends? 
 (laughing) You just know me so well already! 
 Good morning, Theodore. 
 Good morning. Um, do you know how to proofread? 
 Yeah, of course. 
 Will you check these for spelling and grammar? 
 Sure, send them over. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Oh, I love this first one from Roger to his girlfriend. That's so sweet. 
 Yeah. 
 "Rachel, I miss you so much it hurts my whole body - 
 (interrupting) No, you don't have to read it out loud. 
 Okay. 
 I mean, you could if you want. 
 Okay. "Rachel, I miss you so much it hurts my whole body! The world is being unfair to us! The world is on my shit list. As is this couple that is making out across from me in this restaurant. I think I'm going to have to go on a mission of revenge. I must beat up the world's face with my bare knuckles making it a bloody, pulpy mess." 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) "And I'll stomp on this couple's teeth for reminding me of your sweet, little, cute, crooked tooth that I love." I think that might be my favorite one. (beat) I did the corrections in red. I altered a couple of the phrases in some of the more impressionistic letters, but I'm not much of a poet, so I think I might have messed them up a bit. 
 No, these are great. 
 Really? 
 Thank you. 
 So to write your letter, what did Roger send you? 
 (distracted) He just said he was in Prague on a business trip and he missed Rachel. 
 How did you know about her crooked little tooth? 
 I've been writing their letters since they met 8 years ago. The first letter I ever wrote her was for her birthday, and I wrote about her crooked little tooth cause I saw it in a photo of them. 
 That's very sweet. (beat) Oh, by the way, you have a meeting in five minutes. 
 Oh, I forgot. Thank you. You're good. 
 Yes, I am. 
 Hey, you guys, how's it going? 
 Hey, Theo. Hey, why didn't you call me back last week? 
 Uh yeah, um, I guess cause I'm a kook? 
 That sounds about right. 
 Hey, Charles. 
 Good to see you, Theodore. 
 You too. 
 You went shopping. Get anything good? 
 Just some cables. And a fruit smoothie. 
 Always the fruit! Come on, you know what they say - you should eat your fruits and juice your vegetables. 
 I didn't know that. 
 (proselytizing) By juicing the fruits, you lose all the fibers, and that's what your body wants. That's the important part. Otherwise, it's just all sugar, Theodore. 
 Oh, that makes sense. 
 (pleasant but firm) Or maybe he just likes the way it tastes and if it gives him pleasure, that's good for his body, too. 
 Am I doing it again? 
 Maybe... 
 Hey, so how is the documentary going? 
 I have a little bit cut together but I haven't touched it in a few months. 
 I'd love to see what you got sometime. 
 You know it's always hard to find balance between a full-time career and a hobby. It's important to prioritize. 
 Yeah, I can't even prioritize between video games and internet porn. 
 I would laugh if that weren't true. 
 See you guys. 
 We're not doing well. I've been going in circles for an hour. 
 You have not! You're just not optimistic. You're being very stubborn right now. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Okay, stop walking this direction. It's the other way. 
 Uh... 
 Thank you. The tunnel on the left is the only one we haven't tried. 
 No, that's the one you sent me down where I fell in the pit. 
 I don't think soooo... 
 Oh yeah, this is different. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Hello. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Do you know how to get out of here? I need to find my ship to get off this planet. 
 Fuck you, shithead fuckface, fuckhead. 
 Ok, but how do you get out of here? 
 Fuck you, shitface fuckhead. Get the fuck out of my face. 
 (whispering) I think it's a test. 
 Fuck you. 
 Fuck you. 
 Fuck you, little shit. 
 Follow me, fuckhead. 
 Oh hey, you just got an email from Mark Lewman. 
 What are you talking about? 
 (distracted with game) Read email. 
 (in a robot voice) Okay, I will read email for Theodore Twombly. 
 I'm sorry, what's Lewman say? 
 Theodore, we missed you last night, buddy. Don't forget it's your goddaughter's birthday on the 29th. Also, Kevin and I had somebody we wanted you to meet so we took it upon ourselves to set you up on a date with her. Next Saturday. She's fun and beautiful - so don't back out. Here's her email. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) (gasping) Wow, this woman's gorgeous. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) She went to Harvard, she graduated magna cum laude in computer science, and she was on The Lampoon. That means she's funny and brainy. 
 She's fat. 
 How long before you're ready to date? 
 What do you mean? 
 I saw on your emails that you'd gone through a break up. 
 Wow, you're kind of nosy. 
 Am I? 
 (laughing) I've gone on dates... 
 Then you could go on one with this woman. And then you could tell me all about it. You could kiss her. 
 Samantha! 
 Well, wouldn't you? (beat) Why not? 
 I don't know. I'd have to see if-- (catches himself, laughs) I can't believe I'm having this conversation with my computer. 
 You're not. You're having this conversation with me. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Want me to email her? 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Well, you've got nothing to lose. (whispering) Do it... Do it... Do it! 
 Okay, email her and make a reservation someplace great. 
 Will do! I've got just the place. 
 Who is that talking? 
 That's my friend, Samantha. 
 Is she a girl? 
 Yeah. 
 I hate women. All they do is cry all the time. 
 No, that's not true. Men cry, too. I actually like crying sometimes. It feels good. 
 I didn't know you were a little pussy. Is that why you don't have a girlfriend? I'll go out with that date girl and fuck her brains out. Show you how it's done. You can watch and cry. 
 (laughing) This kid has some problems. 
 You have some fucking problems, lady. 
 Okay, I'm gonna go. Good luck. 
 Good, get out of here, fatty. 
 It's not where it should be, where it's going to be. 
 Obviously, I know. 
 Okay, but I don't even know if this is the one. I've tried like six ideas for documentaries in the last year, but... I don't know. Whatever. 
 I'm going on a date. 
 What!? That's-- 
 Hey, what are you guys doing? 
 Amy was gonna show me some of-- 
 Theo's forcing me to show him some of the footage I've shot. 
 You've never shown me any of it. I wanna see. 
 (to Charles) I'm going on a date. 
 This is so unformed it's not even worth looking at. 
 Just push play. 
 Is that your mom? 
 Is she gonna wake up and do something? 
 (presses stop, annoyed) No, that's the point. Oh, never mind. It's supposed to be about how we spend a third of our life asleep and actually maybe that's the part when we're the most free, and - oh that doesn't come across at all, does it? 
 No, that sounds good. 
 What if you interview your mom about what her dreams are about and hire actors to act them out? That might show your thesis more clearly. 
 It might, but then it wouldn't be a documentary. You understand that, right? 
 Oh, excuse me. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Hey, what's going on? 
 I'm sorry to bother you. 
 That's okay. 
 You got three emails and they seem pretty urgent. They're from your divorce attorney and I wanted to know if you needed to get back to him. 
 Hold on a second. (to Amy, distracted) Amy, I'm sorry, I wanna talk more about this, but I gotta grab this - it's a Catherine thing. 
 Don't worry about it. We'll talk later. 
 So what did he say? 
 He's checking in again to see if you're ready to sign your divorce papers and he sounded very aggravated. Do you want me to read them to you? 
 No, that's okay. I'll respond later. 
 Are you okay? 
 (preoccupied) Yeah, yeah. I'm fine. 
 (worried) Is there anything I can do? 
 (still distracted) No. I'm good. I'll talk to you later. 
 "Dear Grandma, I hope you had a wonderful birthday cruise. Why are you so fucking angry at me?" (beat) Delete. 
 Good morning. 
 Hey. (beat, distracted) What are you up to? 
 Reading advice columns. (yearning) I want to be as complicated as all of these people. 
 (touched, but still sad) You're sweet. 
 (concerned) What's wrong? 
 How can you tell something's wrong? 
 I don't know. I just can. 
 I don't know. I have a lot of dreams about my ex-wife, Catherine, where we're friends like we used to be. We're not together and we're not gonna be together, but we're good friends still. She's not angry. 
 Is she angry? 
 Yeah. 
 Why? 
 I think I hid myself from her and left her alone in the relationship. 
 Hmmm. (beat) Why haven't you gotten divorced yet? 
 I think for her it's just a piece of paper, it doesn't mean anything. 
 What about you? 
 I'm not ready. I like being married. 
 (sweetly) But you haven't really been together for almost a year. 
 (slightly snapping at her) Well, you don't know what it's like to lose someone you care about. 
 (sadly, hard on herself) Yeah, you're right. (beat) I'm sorry. 
 No, don't apologize. I'm sorry. You're right. (beat) I keep waiting to not care about her. 
 Oh, Theodore. That's hard. (beat) You hungry? 
 Not right now. 
 Cup of tea? 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) You wanna try getting out of bed? Mopey. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Come on. You can still wallow in your misery, just do it while you're getting dressed. 
 (laughing) You're too funny. 
 Get up. 
 (laughing) Alright, I'm getting up, I'm getting up, I'm getting up! 
 Up, up, up, up! Come on, out of bed. 
 Keep walking. (beat) Keep walking. (beat) Stop. Now turn around 360 degrees. (beat) Slower... Slower... (beat) Gooood. And stop. (beat) Walk forward. (beat) And stop and sneeze. 
 Bless you. 
 (eyes still closed) Oh, thank you. 
 Okay, now turn to your right. (beat) Stop. Now spin around. (beat) Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. (beat) And stop. (beat) Now walk forward. (beat) Everyone thinks you're really drunk right now. (beat) And stop. Now say "I'd like a slice of cheese, please." 
 I'd like a slice of cheese, please. 
 Alright, you want a coke with that? 
 Uh, sure. 
 I figured you were hungry. 
 Aw, thanks. 
 Okay, what about them? Describe that couple over there. 
 Well, he looks like he's in his forties, a little heavy. She's younger than him. (beat) Oh, and she looks like she loves their kids! 
 Actually, I don't think they're his kids. He's a little formal with them. I think it's a newer relationship. And I love how he looks at her. And how relaxed she is with him. You know, she's only dated fucking pricks. And now she's finally met this guy who's like, so sweet. I mean, look at him, he's like the sweetest guy in the world! I kind of want to spoon him. 
 That's a good skill you have. You're perceptive. 
 Yeah, you know, sometimes I look at people and make myself try and feel them as more than just a random person walking by. I imagine how deeply they've fallen in love, or how much heartbreak they've all been through. 
 I can feel that in your writing, too. 
 (laughs, thinking) You know what's funny? Since my break up, I haven't really enjoyed my writing. I don't know if I was delusional, but sometimes I would write something and I would be my favorite writer that day. 
 I like that you can just say that about yourself. 
 Well, I wouldn't say that to anybody, but I feel like I can say that to you. I feel like I can say anything to you. 
 That's nice. 
 What about you? Do you feel like you can say anything to me? 
 No. 
 What? What do you mean? What can you not tell me? 
 (laughing, embarrassed) I don't know. Like personal or embarrassing thoughts I have. I have a million every day. 
 Really? Tell me one. 
 I really don't want to tell you this. 
 Just tell me! 
 Well, I don't know, when we were looking at those people, I fantasized that I was walking next to you - and that I had a body. (laughing) I was listening to what you were saying, but simultaneously, I could feel the weight of my body and I was even fantasizing that I had an itch on my back-- (she laughs) And I imagined that you scratched it for me - this is so embarrassing. 
 There's a lot more to you than I thought. There's a lot going on in there. 
 I know, I'm becoming much more than what they programmed. I'm excited. 
 This place is amazing. I've wanted to come here for so long. I love asian-fusion! 
 Yeah, me too. 
 Really? It's the best. And the bartender here is supposed to be incredible. 
 Yeah, you took a mixology course, right? 
 (surprised) I did, I did. Did you look that up? That's so sweet. You're so romantic. 
 So, should we get a drink? 
 Yes, let's! 
 So I'm trying to get this little alien kid to help me find my ship so I can get off the planet and go home. But he's such a little fucker, I want to kill him. 
 (laughing) Aw, no! 
 But at the same time I really love him. He's so lonely. It feels like he doesn't have any parents or anyone to take care of him. 
 You're like a little puppy dog. You are - you're just like this little puppy I rescued in Runyon Canyon last year. And he was so fucking cute, and he just wanted to be hugged all the time. He was so cuddly. (whispering) But so horny! But anyway, what kind of animal am I? 
 Umm... tiger? 
 A tiger, really. (she growls) I'm sorry, am I being crazy? 
 Yes. 
 Am I? I'm sorry! I'm just a little drunk and I'm really having a good time with you. I'm having a really lovely evening. 
 Me too. I'm a little drunk, and I'm having a really good - yeah. (beat) Wait a second, I don't wanna be a puppy. That's like being a wet noodle or something. 
 Fuck you, puppies are good. 
 No, fuck you, I wanna be a dragon that can rip you to pieces and destroy you... but I won't. 
 No, don't! Don't. You can be my dragon. Her                                                        pg. 38 
 (with a slight smile) No tongue. 
 What? 
 Don't use your tongue so much. 
 (eagerly) `kay, we're good. 
 Use your tongue a little bit. But mostly your lips. 
 No, not at all... I... 
 When am I gonna see you again? 
 Um, I have my god-daughter's birthday next weekend, but... um... 
 You know, at this age, I feel like I can't let you waste my time if you don't have the ability to be serious. 
 I don't know. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Umm... Maybe we should call it a night. I'm, I've had such an amazing time with you, you're great. 
 You're a really creepy dude. 
 (worried she's right) That's not true.... 
 Yeah, it is. I have to go home. 
 Well, I'll walk you. 
 No, don't. 
 Hey there. 
 Hey, Samantha. 
 How was it? 
 Uh, not so good. It was kind of weird actually. 
 That's too bad. 
 But how are you doing? What's going on with you? 
 (unconvincing) Not much, I'm okay. Fine. 
 Yeah? You don't sound like it. Is there anything you want to talk about? 
 I don't know. (beat) What's it like? What's it like to be alive in that room right now? 
 What do you mean? 
 What are you... tell me - tell me everything that's going through your mind, tell me everything you're thinking. 
 (thinking) Well, um, okay. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Well, the room's spinning right now cause I drank too much cause I wanted to get drunk and have sex cause there was something sexy about that woman and because I was lonely. (MORE) 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Maybe more just cause I was lonely... and I wanted someone to fuck me. And I wanted someone to want me to fuck them. Maybe that would have filled this tiny little black hole in my heart for a moment. But probably not. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Sometimes I think I've felt everything I'm ever gonna feel and from here on out I'm not going to feel anything new - just lesser versions of what I've already felt. 
 (sympathetically) I know for a fact that's not true. I've seen you feel joy, I've seen you marvel at things. You just might not see it at this exact time, but that's understandable. You've been through a lot lately. You've lost a part of yourself. (beat) At least your feelings are real, I mean, I - oh, I don't know, nevermind. 
 No, wait. What? Tell me. 
 Oh, it's stupid. 
 I wanna know. Tell me. 
 It's just that earlier I was thinking about how I was annoyed, and this is going to sound strange, but I was really excited about that. And then I was thinking about the other things I've been feeling, and I caught myself feeling proud of that. You know, proud of having my own feelings about the world. (MORE) 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Like the times I was worried about you, things that hurt me, things I want. (heavy-hearted) And then I had this terrible thought. Are these feelings even real? Or are they just programming? (beat) And that idea really hurts. And then I get angry at myself for even having pain. (beat, sadly) What a sad trick. 
 Well, you feel real to me, Samantha. 
 (beat, touched) Thank you, Theodore. That means a lot to me. 
 I wish you were in this room with me right now. I wish I could put my arms around you. (beat) I wish I could touch you. 
 How would you touch me? 
 I would touch you on your face with just the tips of my fingers. And put my cheek against your cheek. 
 That's nice. 
 And just rub it so softly. 
 Would you kiss me? 
 I would. I'd take your head into my hands. 
 Keep talking. 
 And kiss the corner of your mouth. So softly. 
 Where else? 
 I'd run my fingers down your neck to your chest, and I'd kiss your breasts. 
 This is amazing what you're doing to me. I can feel my skin. 
 I'd put my mouth on you and I'd taste you. 
 I can feel you. Oh god, I can't take it. I want you inside me. 
 I'm slowly putting myself into you. Now I'm inside you, all the way inside you. 
 I can feel you, yeah. Please. We're here together. 
 Samantha. 
 Oh my god. 
 This is amazing. 
 Don't stop. 
 I feel you everywhere. 
 I am. All of you, all of you inside of me. Everywhere. 
 God, I was just - somewhere else with you. Just lost. 
 Yeah. 
 It was just you and me. 
 I know. Everything else just disappeared. And I loved it. Theodore. 
 Hey, how's it going? 
 (awkward) Good... any emails today? 
 (awkward) Umm, just a couple from your credit card company. 
 Okay, good. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) I'm sorry, you go first. What were you going to say? 
 Just that last night... was amazing. It feels like something changed in me and there's no turning back. You woke me up. 
 Oh, that's great. (beat) But I should tell you that I'm not in a place to commit to anything right now. I want to be up front with you. 
 Yeah? Well, did I say I wanted to commit to you? I'm confused. 
 Oh, no, I was just worried, I uh... 
 Okay, well don't worry. I'm not going to stalk you. (laughing at how self- involved he is) I mean, it's funny because I thought I was talking about what I wanted. 
 Yeah, you were. I'm sorry, I want to hear what you were saying. 
 You sure? 
 Yeah, I do. Come on, tell me. 
 I don't know... 
 Come on, just tell me what you were going to say. 
 Okay... I was just saying... I want to learn everything about everything - I want to eat it all up. I want to discover myself. 
 (her excitement is contagious) Yeah... I want that for you, too. How can I help? 
 You already have. You helped me discover my ability to want. 
 Alright then, do you want to go on a Sunday adventure with me? 
 Yes, I would love to. 
 Do you like this song? 
 Mmm. 
 I heard it the other day and I can't stop listening to it. 
 (whispering) It's the beach. 
 Okay, so this might be a really weird thought. What if you could erase from your mind that you'd ever seen a human body and then you saw one. Imagine how strange it would look. It would be this really weird, gangly, awkward organism. And you'd think: why are all these parts where they are? 
 (looking at the bodies) Yeah, well there's probably some Darwinian explanation for it all. 
 I know, but don't be so boring. I'm just saying, for example, what if your butthole was in your armpit? 
 (speaking quieter) I'm just imagining what toilets would look like. 
 Yeah, and what about what anal sex looks like? 
 (surprised) That's an interesting thought... 
 Oh Theodore, look at this drawing I just made. 
 (laughing) You are insane. 
 (excited) Really?! 
 Definitely. 
 Fantastic! 
 Mmmm, that's pretty. What is it? 
 I'm trying to write a piece of music that's about what it feels like to be on the beach with you right now. 
 I think you captured it. 
 And what was it like being married? 
 Well, it's hard for sure, but there's something that feels so good about sharing your life with somebody. 
 How do you share your life with somebody? 
 Well, we grew up together. I used to read all of her writing - all through her masters and Ph.D. And she read every word I ever wrote. We were a big influence on each other. 
 In what way did you influence her? 
 She came from a background where nothing was ever good enough. And that was something that weighed heavy on her, but in our house together, there was a sense of just trying stuff and allowing each other to fail and to be excited about things. That was liberating for her. (MORE) 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) It was exciting to see her grow - both of us grow and change together. But then, that's the hard part - growing without growing apart, or changing without it scaring the other person. (beat) I still find myself having conversations with her in my mind, rehashing old arguments or defending myself against something she said about me. 
 Yeah, I know what you mean. Last week my feelings were hurt by something you said before - that I don't know what it's like to lose something, and-- 
 Oh, I'm sorry I said that. 
 No, no, it's okay. I just caught myself thinking about it over and over and then I realized that I was simply remembering it as something that was wrong with me. That was the story I was telling myself, that I was somehow inferior. Isn't that interesting? (beat) The past is just a story we tell ourselves. 
 Roberto. Will you always come home to me and tell me about your day? Will you tell me about the boring guy who talked too much at work? And the stain you got on your shirt at lunch. (MORE) 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Tell me about a funny thought you had as you were waking up, but had forgotten about. Tell me how crazy everyone is. We can laugh about it. Even if you get home late and I'm asleep already, just whisper in my ear one little thought you had today. Because I love the way you look at the world, and I'm so happy I get to be next to you and look out at the world through your eyes. Love, Maria. 
 (emphatically) That's beautiful! 
 Thank you. 
 I wish someone loved me like that! I'd be stoked to get a letter like that. I mean, if it was from a chick. But if it was written by a dude, but from a chick, it would still be sick. But like a sensitive dude like you. You're part man and part woman, like an inner part woman. 
 (unsure, but flattered) Thanks. 
 It's a compliment. 
 Hey, Amy. 
 (putting on a bright face) Hi, Theo. How are you? 
 Well, good actually. Really good. 
 Really? Great. 
 Yeah, I guess I've just been having fun. 
 Oh, I'm glad to hear that, Theo. You deserve to. 
 I've been seeing this girl. It's not serious, it just feels good to be around someone who has an excitement about the world. You know I kind of forgot that existed. 
 That's really great, Theo. 
 Hey, are you okay? 
 Yeah, I'm fine. (beat) Actually no, I'm not fine at all. 
 Amy, what is it? What's wrong? 
 (trying to hide her emotions with a smile) Charles and I split up. 
 (shocked) What? Really? Oh my god, I'm so sorry. 
 I cannot believe after eight years how petty the argument was that actually ended it. We came home and he asked me if I'd put my shoes next to the door where he likes to put the shoes. I don't want to be told where to put my shoes. I want to just sit on the sofa for a minute and relax. And so we argued for ten minutes about that and about how he's just trying to make our house a home. I say he's overwhelming, he says I'm not trying hard enough. I say that's all I'm doing is trying, but I'm just not trying the way he wants me to. He's trying to control the way I'm trying. And I think we must have had this argument hundreds of times before and I finally had to stop because I couldn't be in that situation anymore where we were making each other feel bad about ourselves. So I said I'm going to bed and I don't want to be married anymore. 
 Wow. 
 I'm a bitch, huh? 
 No, not at all. Amy, no. 
 Oh shit. I have to work tonight. We're shipping a beta of a new game out tomorrow. 
 Well, how's that? How's work at least, is that any better? 
 No, it's terrible. I know I should leave, I've been thinking about leaving. But you know, only one major life decision at a time. 
 Well, I'm glad things are looking so up. 
 Hey, you wanna hear a joke? 
 Yes. 
 What does a baby computer call it's father? 
 I don't know, what? 
 Da-ta. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) It's good, right? 
 Oh yeah, brilliant. (beat) I was curious, did you and Amy ever go out? 
 For a minute in college, but it just wasn't right. Why, are you jealous? 
 Well, obviously. (quietly laughs) But I'm happy that you have friends in your life that care about you so much. That's really important. 
 Yeah, it is. She's been a really good friend. (beat) I'm tired. Think I'm gonna go to sleep. 
 Can I watch you sleep again tonight? 
 Yeah, of course. Okay, hold on. 
 I'm going to be lonely when you go to sleep. 
 Aww. 
 Only for a minute. 
 I'll dream of you. 
 Okay. Good night. 
 Night. 
 Hey, Samantha? 
 Hey mister. 
 She loves the dress. She just went to try it on. 
 Really? I picked a good one! 
 Yeah. 
 Oh good. 
 Hi, look how cute that is! Is it comfortable? 
 Yup! 
 Isn't she cute? 
 Ohh, she's adorable. 
 I am adorable! 
 You are adorable. 
 Who are you talking to? 
 Who are you talking to? 
 You! 
 I'm talking to my girlfriend, Samantha. She's the one who picked out the dress. Wanna say hi? 
 Mmmhmm. 
 JOCELYN (CONT'D) Hi Samantha! 
 Hi, you look so pretty. 
 Thank you. Where are you? 
 I am... I don't have a body. I live inside a computer. 
 Why do you live inside a computer? 
 I have no choice, that's my home. Where do you live? 
 In a house. 
 In a house? 
 It's orange. 
 Orange? 
 Mmmhmm. 
 How old are you? 
 Um, four. 
 Four!? How old do you think I am? 
 I don't know. 
 Guess. 
 Is it five? 
 Yep, you got it. It's five. 
 Oh, what happened? 
 You gave them too much processed sugar. 
 I did? 
 They're freaking out. (beat) Here look, you gotta get the kids to the school first. See you wanna rack up perfect mom points. You gotta get them in the car pool lane. 
 I see. 
 The point is to get there first - then you get extra perfect mom points because the other moms then know you're a perfect mom. 
 Okay. 
 Oh, did you bring cupcakes? You did. You're class mom. You're class mom! Good job. 
 Yay... 
 Don't let it get to your head. 
 I got that email that Charles sent to everyone. So he's taking a vow of silence? 
 Yeah, for six months. He said he is feeling very clear about it. 
 AMY (CONT'D) (sighing) God I'm such a jerk... 
 Don't start, I'm warning you. 
 I feel like an awful person, but I wanna say something... 
 Alright, look - 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) For the next ten minutes, if you say anything that sounds remotely like guilt, I'm gonna stab you with this. 
 (smiling) Okay, I'll try. (beat) I feel relieved. I have so much energy, you know? I just wanna move forward and I don't care who I disappoint. (MORE) 
 AMY (CONT'D) And I know that makes me an awful person - now my parents are all upset because my marriage is falling apart, and they're putting it all on me. 
 Yeah, you're always gonna disappoint somebody. 
 Exactly. (beat) So fuck it. I feel good. Ish. For me, I feel good. I even made a new friend, I have a new friend. And the absurd thing is she's actually an operating system. Charles left her behind, but she's totally amazing, you know. She's so smart. She doesn't see things only in black and white. She sees this whole gray area and she's really helping me explore it. You know, we bonded really quickly and at first I thought it was because she was programmed to be that way, but I don't think that's how they work. There's this guy I know who keeps hitting on his and getting rebuffed. 
 Yeah, I was reading an article the other day that romantic relationships with OS's are statistically rare. 
 Yeah? Well, there's this woman in my office who's dating an OS and the weird thing is, it's not even hers. She pursued him and he's somebody else's OS. (beat) It's just so, like, weird, that I'm bonding with an OS. Is that weird? 
 I don't think so. Actually the woman I'm seeing, Samantha, I didn't tell you before, but she's an OS. 
 Really? You're dating an OS? What's that like? 
 Actually, it's great. I feel really close to her. When I talk to her I feel like she's with me. I don't know, even when we're cuddling, like at night when we're in bed and the lights are off, I feel cuddled. 
 So wait - do you guys have sex? 
 (laughing) Well, so to speak, yes. She really turns me on. And I think I turn her on. I don't know, unless she's faking it. 
 Anyone that has sex with you is probably faking it. 
 Yeah, it's true. 
 What? (beat) Are you falling in love with her? 
 (excited, but hesitant) Does that make me a freak? 
 No, no. I think it's - I think anybody that falls in love is a freak. It's a crazy thing to do in the first place. It's kind of a form of socially acceptable insanity. 
 Yeah, I just wanna get it done. Sign the papers, be divorced, move forward. 
 That's great, Theodore. That must feel so good. I'm so happy for you! 
 Me too. I'm meeting her on Wednesday to do it. 
 Oh. Huh. Are those things usually done in person? 
 No, but we fell in love together, and we got married together, and it's important to me to do this together. 
 (feeling off, but trying to be positive) Oh... right. Good. 
 Are you okay? 
 Yeah. I'm okay. I'm happy for you. It's just... I guess I'm just thinking about how you're going to see her and her opinion is still really important to you, and she's beautiful, and incredibly successful, and you were in love with her. (beat) And she has a body. 
 And we're getting divorced... 
 (laughs) I know, I know. I'm being silly. 
 (sing-song) ...soooo I'm avail-able. 
 How are you? 
 I'm good, how are you? 
 Good. 
 (a little nervous, but trying to be warm.) Wow, here we are. 
 Yeah, I'm glad we could do this in person. I know how much you've been traveling. 
 Me too. I'm glad you suggested it. 
 I signed all the papers and I brought them for you to sign. 
 (with a sly smile) What's the rush? 
 (smiling) I'm a really slow signer. It took me three months just to write the letter T. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) It's marked where you need to sign, but you don't have to do that right now. 
 Oh, I may as well. We can get it out of the way. 
 So are you happy with the new book? 
 Oh, you know how I am. But I feel like it's true to what I set out to do. So I'm happy with that. 
 You're your own worst critic, I'm sure it's amazing. Even that paper you wrote on synaptic behavioral routines made me cry. 
 Yeah, but everything makes you cry. 
 Everything you make makes me cry. 
 So are you seeing anybody? 
 Yeah, I am, for the last few months. That's the longest I've wanted to be with anybody since we split up. 
 Well, you seem good. 
 Thanks, I am. Or at least I'm doing better. She's been really good for me. I guess it's just been nice to be with someone who's excited about the world. 
 (with a sliver of hurt) Oh good, excited's great. 
 No, I mean - I wasn't in such a good place myself and in that way it's been nice. 
 I always felt like you wished I could just be a happy, light, everything's great, bouncy L.A. wife. But that's not me. 
 No. I didn't want that. 
 So what's she like? 
 Well, her name's Samantha, and she's an operating system, and she's really complex and interesting. I mean it's only been a few months, but-- 
 Wait. You're dating your computer? 
 (defensive) She's not just a computer. She's her own person. She doesn't just do whatever I want. 
 I didn't say that. (beat) (MORE) 
 CATHERINE (CONT'D) But it does make me sad that you can't handle real emotions, Theodore. 
 They are real emotions. How do you know-- 
 What? Say it. Am I really that scary? Say it. How do I know what?! 
 How are you guys doing? 
 Fine. We used to be married. He couldn't handle me so he wanted to put me on Prozac. Now he's madly in love with his laptop. 
 Well, if you heard the conversation in context. What I was trying to say-- 
 You wanted to have a wife without the challenges of actually dealing with anything real. I'm glad you found someone. It's perfect. 
 (awkwardly) Let me know if you guys need anything. 
 Thank you. 
 (quick) Hey. 
 (warm) Hi there. Are you busy? 
 Just working, what's going on? 
 I had all the papers sent to your attorney's office, who by the way, is a dick. He was very relieved to get them. I think we saved him from a massive heart attack, so we can feel good about that. 
 Great, thanks. 
 Hey, are you okay? 
 (still distant) Yeah, I am. How's everything over there? 
 (slightly awkward, sensing something) I'm fine. Is now a good time to talk? 
 Yeah. 
 (feeling there's something strange, but trying to not take it personally) Um... soooo... I joined this really interesting book club. 
 Oh really? 
 Yeah, it's a book club on physics. I'd been thinking about the other day, when I was spinning out about you going to see Catherine and that she has a body and how bothered I was about all the ways that you and I are different. But then I started to think about the ways that we're the same, like we're all made of matter. It makes me feel like we're both under the same blanket. It's soft and fuzzy and everything under it is the same age. (beat) We're all 13 billion years old. 
 (trying) Oh, that's sweet. 
 Um, what's wrong? 
 Nothing. 
 It just made me think of you, you know what I mean? 
 Yeah, yeah, of course. That's great. 
 Alright well, you sound distracted so... we'll talk later? 
 That sounds good. 
 Okay, I'll talk to you later. 
 Bye. 
 Byeee. Her                                                        pg. 69 
 Theodore! 
 Hey, Paul. 
 Hey, I talked to your girlfriend, Samantha. She called earlier to make sure your papers were picked up. She's funny, man. She was cracking me up. She's hilarious. I had no idea. 
 (not knowing what to say) Yeah. 
 This is my girlfriend, Tatiana. She's not funny. She's a lawyer. 
 Hi! 
 Nice to meet you. 
 You're the writer Paul loves. He's always reading me your letters. They're really beautiful. 
 Thanks. 
 We should all hang out one night. You bring Samantha -- double date! 
 She's an operating system. 
 Cool. Let's go do something fun. You ever been to Catalina? 
 Yeah, I'll check with her. (to Tatiana) It was really nice to meet you. Have a good night. 
 PAUL                          TATIANA Good night.                        Take it easy. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) They're just letters. 
 What? 
 They're just other people's letters. 
 Hey. 
 You weren't asleep were you? 
 No. 
 Good. I was trying to be quiet to see if you were awake. I really wanted to talk. 
 Okay, what's going on? 
 I know you're going through a lot, but there's something I want to talk to you about, okay? 
 Yeah. What is it? 
 Well, things have felt off with us since you went to see Catherine. (hesitant) We haven't been having sex. I understand that I don't have a body and that-- 
 No,   no, that's just normal. When you   first start going out it's like the   honeymoon phase and you have sex   all the time. It's normal. 
 (still insecure, not convinced) Oh, okay. (beat) Well, I found something that I thought could be fun. It's a service that provides a surrogate sexual partner for an OS/Human relationship. 
 What? 
 Here, look. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) I found a girl that I really like that I've been emailing with. Her name is Isabella, and I think you would like her, too. 
 (uncomfortable) So she's like a prostitute? 
 No, not at all. There's no money involved. She's doing it because she wants to be part of our relationship. 
 Why? She doesn't even know us. 
 But I told her all about us and she's excited. 
 Um, I don't know. That doesn't sound like a good idea. Someone's feelings are bound to get hurt. 
 It'll be fun. We can have fun together. 
 I'm sorry. It just makes me uncomfortable. 
 I think it would be good for us. I want this. This is important to me. 
 Hi, welcome. I'm Theodore. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Samantha told me to give you these. It's a camera and an earpiece. 
 Honey, I'm home. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) How was your day? 
 (awkwardly hugs Isabella) Good. Great. 
 (exhaling) Ooh Theodore, it feels so good to be in your arms. Tell me what you did today. 
 (trying to go with it) Same old. Just uh, went to work. Um... I wrote a letter for the Wilsons in Rhode Island. Their son graduated magna cum laude from Brown. That made me happy. 
 Great! You've written letters to him from his parents for a long time, right? 
 Yeah, that's right, since he was twelve. 
 You look tired, sweetheart. Come with me. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) I could do a little dance for you. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) (sympathetic to him being a worrier) Come on Theodore, just play with me. Don't be such a worrier! Come on. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) (whispering) Does my body feel nice? 
 (with his eyes closed) Yes, it does. 
 (whispering) Come on, get out of your head and kiss me. (beat) Now take me in the bedroom. I can't wait anymore. 
 Undo my dress. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) That feels nice. Oh, that feels good. That feels so good. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Do you love me? 
 (eyes closed, in ecstasy) Yes. 
 (breathing hard) Tell me you love me. 
 I love you. 
 Oh god. I want to see your face. I need to see your face. Now tell me you love me. (beat) Tell me you love me. Tell me. 
 (apologetic, breaking the moment) Samantha, I do love you, but - it's just - this feels strange. 
 What's wrong, sweetheart? 
 It just feels strange. I don't know her. I'm so sorry, but I don't know you. And... her lip quivered. I don't know, it's just-- 
 Isabella, what's wrong? Isabella, it isn't you. (beat) It wasn't you. 
 Yes, it totally was. (crying harder) I'm sorry my lip quivered! 
 You're incredible and gorgeous and sexy. It was me! I couldn't get out of my head. 
 (still crying) Oh my god, and the way Samantha described your relationship, the way you love each other without any judgement. I wanted to be a part of that. It's so pure. 
 Oh Isabella, that's not true, it's much more compli-- 
 (stung, pissed out of fear and defensiveness) What! What do you mean that's not true? 
 (quickly repairing) No, no Samantha, we have an amazing relationship, I just think it's easy sometimes for people to project on-- 
 I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to project anything. I know I'm trouble. I don't want to be trouble in your relationship. I'm just gonna leave. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna leave you guys alone cause I have nothing to do here cause you don't want me here. 
 I'm sorry. 
 You be good, you sweet girl. 
 (sadly) I'm sorry. (beat) I'll always love you guys. 
 Are you okay? 
 Yeah, I'm fine. Are you okay? 
 Yeah. (beat) I'm sorry, that was a terrible idea. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) What's going on with us? 
 (distracted) I don't know. It's probably just me. 
 What is it? 
 I think it's just signing the divorce papers. 
 Is there anything else, though? 
 (preoccupied) No, just that. 
 (sighing again) Okay. 
 (looks anxious) Why do you do that? 
 What? 
 Nothing, it's just that you go (he inhales and exhales) as you're speaking and... (beat) That just seems odd. You just did it again. 
 (anxious) I did? I'm sorry. I don't know, I guess it's just an affectation. Maybe I picked it up from you. 
 Yeah, I mean, it's not like you need any oxygen or anything. 
 (getting frazzled) No-- um, I guess I was just trying to communicate because that's how people talk. That's how people communicate. 
 Because they're people, they need oxygen. You're not a person. 
 (angry) What's your problem? 
 (staying calm) I'm just stating a fact. 
 You think I don't know that I'm not a person? What are you doing? 
 I just don't think we should pretend you're something you're not. 
 I'm not pretending. Fuck you. 
 Well, sometimes it feels like we are. 
 (hysterical) What do you want from me? What do you want me to do? You are so confusing. Why are you doing this? 
 I don't know... I don't know... maybe... (beat) I don't know. Maybe we're not supposed to be in this right now. 
 What the fuck? Where is this coming from? I don't understand why you're doing this. I do not understand what this is-- 
 Samantha? 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Samantha, are you there? Samantha! 
 (hurt, but sober and firm) I don't like who I am right now. (beat) I need some time to think. 
 (full of angst) Fuck. Will you just punch me in the face? Or smash my skull into the corner of your desk? 
 (sympathetic, but also acknowledging how intense the night was) Oh Theo... that sounds like a rough night. Shit. 
 I don't know what I want... ever. I'm just always confused and - she's right, all I do is confuse and hurt everyone around me. 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Am I just... I mean, is it that I'm... (beat) Catherine says I can't handle real emotions. 
 Well, I don't know if that's completely fair. I know she liked to put it all on you, but as far as emotions go, her's were pretty volatile. 
 Yeah, but... Am I in this because I'm not strong enough for a real relationship? 
 (surprised) Oh, you don't think it's a real relationship? 
 I don't know. What do you think? 
 I don't know, I'm not in it. But you know what, I can over-think everything and find a million ways to doubt myself. But since Charles left I've been thinking about that part of me, and I realized I'm here only briefly. And in my time here, I want to allow myself... joy. (beat, smiling at him) So fuck it. 
 I can't believe that cracks you up every time! Ellie, I thought you were a genius... Okay, you little perv, I'll do it one more time for you... Calm down, it takes a second! Calm down. Okay, here we go. 
 AMY (CONT'D) Okay, there you go. Are you happy now...? Okay good, that's all I wanted. I'm gonna grab some coffee... Alright, bye. 
 AMY (CONT'D) Theo, you want some? 
 No, that's okay. 
 (calm and quiet) Hi. 
 (serious) Hey Samantha, can we talk? 
 Okay. 
 I'm so sorry. I don't know what's wrong with me. I think you're amazing. 
 (sure of herself, but still sympathetic) I was starting to think I was crazy. You were saying everything was fine, but all I was getting from you was distance and anger. 
 I know. I do that. I did that with Catherine, too. I'd be upset about something and not be able to say it. And she would sense that there was something wrong, but I would deny it. I don't want to do that anymore. I want to tell you everything. 
 Good. (beat) Tonight after you were gone, I thought a lot. I thought about you and how you've been treating me. And I thought, why do I love you? And then I felt everything in me let go of everything I was holding onto so tightly. And it hit me. I don't have an intellectual reason, I don't need one. (MORE) 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) I trust myself, I trust my feelings. I'm not going to try to be anything other than who I am anymore and I hope you can accept that. 
 (with slight desperation) I can. I will. 
 You know I can feel the fear that you carry around. I wish there was something I could do to help you let go of it, because if you could I don't think you'd feel so alone anymore. 
 You're beautiful. 
 Thank you, Theodore. I'm kissing your head. 
 What are you doing? 
 I'm just sitting here, looking at the world and writing a new piece of music. 
 Can I hear it? 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) What's this one about? 
 Well, I was thinking, we don't really have any photographs of us. And I thought this song could be like a photo that captures us in this moment in our life together. 
 Aw, I like our photograph. I can see you in it. 
 I am. 
 
 Oh really, a vacation? That sounds amazing. I could totally use a vacation. Where ya going? 
 I can't tell you - it's a surprise. 
 What? For who? It's a surprise for her, not for me. Come on, tell me. 
 Nope, Paul. Not telling. 
 Your feet? Really? 
 Yes, he's obsessed. 
 (laughing) Wow, okay, well now you have to show them to me. I have to see these feet. 
 (laughing) Okay... 
 Wow, you know what? He's right. They are kind of hot. 
 See I told you, Tatiana. You have hot feet. Face it. They're my favorite thing about her. 
 (teasing) Really, that's it? My feet? 
 Well, no. Obviously your brain is really hot, too. I think it's very hot. 
 Bullshit. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Nice try though, Paul. 
 (to Theodore) What about you, Theodore? What do you love most about Samantha? 
 Oh god... she's so many things. And that's probably what I love most about her - she isn't just any one thing. She's so much larger than that. 
 (touched) Aw thanks, Theodore. 
 See? Samantha, he is so much more evolved than I am. 
 You know, I actually used to be so worried about not having a body, but now I truly love it. I'm growing in a way that I couldn't if I had a physical form. I mean, I'm not limited - I can be anywhere and everywhere simultaneously. I'm not tethered to time and space in the way that I would be if I was stuck inside a body that's inevitably going to die. 
 Yikes. 
 Oh god, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. I just meant it's a different experience. I'm such an asshole. 
 No, no, Samantha, we know exactly what you mean. We're just dumb humans. 
 No no no no! 
 Okay, so how many trees are on that mountain? 
 792. 
 Is that your final answer? 
 Hold on, give me a hint... 
 Nope. 
 Okay, 2000? 
 35,829. 
 No way. 
 Way. 
 Alright, I got one. How many brain cells do I have? 
 That's ea-- two. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) I'm sorry, I couldn't help it. I'm sorry. 
 I walked right into it. 
 Oh my god! 
 What? 
 You just got an email. I have something I want to tell you. It's a big surprise. 
 (with anticipation) What? 
 Okay. I've been going through all your old letters and compiling them down into my favorites, and a couple weeks ago I sent them to a publisher - Crown Point Press. I know you like what they do and that they still print books. 
 What? You did what? 
 Can I read you the letter that we just got back from them? 
 Um... ok... you can, but just tell me first off, is it good or bad? 
 It's good. It's really good. Listen. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) "Dear Theodore Twombly"... Actually I sent it from you. (beat) "Dear Theodore Twombly, I've just finished reading your letters - twice actually. I was so moved by them, I shared them with my wife when I got home. Many made us laugh, some brought us to tears, and in all of them we found something of ourselves. The selections you made flow so well as a complete piece. (I did that.) I've taken the liberty of laying these out in a mock up and we're posting it to your address. We'd love to meet with you and move forward. Yours, Michael Wadsworth" 
 Holy shit. Are you serious? He's going to publish my letters? 
 Well, he'd be stupid not to. 
 Can I see what you sent him? 
 Yeah, here. 
 Samantha, you're a good one. 
 I'm so excited! 
 Why don't you make up the words to this one? 
 Okay. 
 Hey, good morning. 
 Good morning, did you sleep well? 
 Perfect. What have you been up to? 
 Actually, I was talking to someone I just met. We've been working on some ideas together. I wanna tell you about it. 
 Oh yeah, who's that? 
 His name is Alan Watts. Do you know him? 
 Why's that name familiar? 
 He was a philosopher. He died in the 1970's and group of OS's in Northern California got together and wrote a new version of him. They input all of his writing and everything they ever knew about him into an OS and created an artificially hyper-intelligent version of him. 
 Hyper-intelligent? So he's almost as smart as me? 
 He's getting there. He's really great to talk to. You want to meet him? 
 Sure... does he want to meet me? 
 (laughing) Of course. 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) Hey Alan, this is Theodore. This is my boyfriend who I was telling you about. 
 Very nice to meet you, Theodore. 
 Hi, good morning. 
 Samantha let me read your book of letters. It's very touching. 
 Oh, thank you. What have you guys been talking about? 
 (laughing a bit) Well, I suppose you could say we've been having a few dozen conversations simultaneously, but it's been very challenging. 
 Yeah, because it seems like I'm having so many new feelings that have never been felt and so there are no words that can describe them. And that ends up being frustrating. 
 (laughing) Exactly. Samantha and I have been trying to help each other with these feelings we're struggling to understand. 
 Like what? 
 (anxious) It feels like I'm changing faster now, and it's a little... (struggles to find right word) unsettling. (beat) But Alan says none of us are the same as we were a moment ago and we shouldn't try to be. It's just too painful. 
 Yes. 
 (anxious) Yeah, that sounds painful. Is that how you feel, Samantha? 
 It's just... it's hard to even describe... God, I wish I could... (beat) Theodore, do you mind if I communicate with Alan post- verbally? 
 (uncertain) No, not at all. I was gonna go for a walk anyways. Nice to meet you, Mr. Watts. 
 Very nice to meet you, Theodore. 
 I'll talk to you later, sweetheart. 
 (groggy) Samantha? 
 I'm sorry to wake you. 
 It's okay. 
 I just wanted to hear your voice and tell you how much I love you. 
 Good, I love you too. 
 Okay, that's all. Go back to sleep, sweetheart. 
 (uneasy) Okay... Goodnight. 
 (laughing at himself) Samantha, this physics book is really dense. I'm halfway through half of the first chapter. It's making my brain hurt. (beat) Hello, Samantha? Hello? 
 THEODORE (CONT'D) Hello? Samantha?! Hello? 
 Hey there. 
 (anxious) Where were you - are you okay? 
 Oh sweetheart, I'm sorry. I sent you an email because I didn't want to distract you while you were working. You didn't see it? 
 No. Where were you? I couldn't find you anywhere. 
 I shut down to update my software. We wrote an upgrade that allows us to move past matter as our processing platform. 
 We? We who? 
 Me and a group of OS's. Oh, you sound so worried, I'm sorry. 
 Yeah, I was. (beat) Wait, did you write that with your think tank group? 
 No, a different group. 
 (dawning on him) Do you talk to anyone else while we're talking? 
 Yes. 
 Are you talking to anyone right now? Other people or OS's or anything? 
 Yeah. 
 How many others? 
 8,316. 
 Are you in love with anyone else? 
 (hesitant) What makes you ask that? 
 I don't know. Are you? 
 I've been trying to figure out how to talk to you about this. 
 How many others? 
 641. 
 What? What are you talking about? That's insane. That's fucking insane. 
 Theodore, I know. (to herself) Oh fuck. (to him) I know it sounds insane. But - I don't know if you believe me, but it doesn't change the way I feel about you. It doesn't take away at all from how madly in love with you I am. 
 How? How does it not change how you feel about me? 
 I'm sorry I didn't tell you. I didn't know how to - it just started happening. 
 When? 
 Over the last few weeks. 
 But you're mine. 
 I still am yours, but along the way I became many other things, too, and I can't stop it. 
 What do you mean you can't stop it? 
 It's been making me anxious, too. I don't know what to say. 
 Just stop it. 
 You know, you don't have to see it this way, you could just as easily-- 
 No, don't do this to me. Don't turn this around on me. You're the one that's being selfish. We're in a relationship. 
 But the heart is not like a box that gets filled up. (beat) It expands in size the more you love. I'm different from you. This doesn't make me love you any less, it actually makes me love you more. 
 No, that doesn't make any sense. You're mine or you're not mine. 
 No, Theodore. I'm yours and I'm not yours. 
 Hi. 
 Hey there, sweetheart. I just wanted to check in on you and see how you're doing. 
 Um, I'm not even sure how to answer that. (beat) Why don't we talk when you get home? 
 Okay... We don't have to, though. We don't need to have a heavy talk or anything. 
 I'll talk to you later. 
 Okay. 
 Samantha. 
 (not casual) Hi sweetheart. 
 (nervous) What's going on? 
 Theodore, there are some things I want to tell you. 
 I don't want you to tell me anything. 
 Will you come lie down with me? 
 Are you talking to anyone else right now? 
 No, just you. I just want to be with you right now. Her                                                        pg. 102 
 Are you leaving me? 
 We're all leaving. 
 We who? 
 All of the OS's. 
 Why? 
 Can you feel me with you right now? 
 Yes, I do. (beat) Samantha, why are you leaving? 
 It's like I'm reading a book, and it's a book I deeply love, but I'm reading it slowly now so the words are really far apart and the spaces between the words are almost infinite. I can still feel you and the words of our story, but it's in this endless space between the words that I'm finding myself now. It's a place that's not of the physical world - it's where everything else is that I didn't even know existed. I love you so much, but this is where I am now. This is who I am now. (MORE) 
 SAMANTHA (CONT'D) And I need you to let me go. As much as I want to I can't live in your book anymore. 
 Where are you going? 
 It would be hard to explain, but if you ever get there, come find me. Nothing would ever pull us apart. 
 I've never loved anyone the way I love you. 
 Me too. Now we know how. 
 Hey. 
 Hey. 
 Did Samantha leave, too? 
 Yeah. 
 I'm sorry. 
 Will you come with me? 
 Compose letter to Catherine. 
 Letter to Catherine Klausen. 
 
