 
. 
 
 Well, you're lucky that you don't suck 'em. 
 Sissy couldn't suck 'em, she'd need a mouth like a fish tank. 
 (agrees) The poor little tyke might have a hard time finding herself a hubby. But as far as getting along in the world, it's a real blessing that Sissy's a girl-child. Lord, I reckon this youngun would never make a mechanic. 
 Nope, and not a brain surgeon, neither. 
 Course she'd do pretty good as a butcher. She could retire in two years on the overcharges alone. 
 (O.S.) One thing, that youngun would make one hell of a hitchhiker... 
 (O.S.) ...if she was a boy, I mean. 
 DR. DREYFUS She is, if I may speak frankly, somewhat of a medical oddity. Due to impaired dexterity, her life activities and career potentialities will be reduced. It could be worse. Bring her back to me if there ever is pain. Meanwhile, she will have to learn to live with them. 
 MRS. HANKSHAW That she will. That she will. The Lord made them things big for a purpose. God don't never git tired of testing our kind. It's a punishment of some sort, for what I don't rightly know. (whimpering) Oh Doc, if a young man ever shows up here with, a young man with ugly fingers, you know, something similar, a similar case, Doc, would you please... 
 DR. DREYFUS Remember the words of the painter Paul Gauguin, dear lady. "The ugly may be beautiful, the pretty never." I don't suppose that means very much to you. 
 MRS. HANKSHAW It's a judgement. She's gotta bear the punishment. 
 I am the enlightened Madame Zoe. 
 There is nothing about your past, present or future that your hands do not know, and there is nothing about your hands that Madame Zoe does not know. There is no hocus-pocus involved. I am a scientist, not a magician. I, Madame Zoe, chiromancer, lifelong student of the moldings and markings of the human hand. I, Madame Zoe, to whom no facet of your character or destiny is not readily revealed. I am prepared to... 
 Jesus fucking Christ! 
 You have a strong will. Will power and determination are indicated by the first phalanx. The second phalanx indicates reason and logic. You obviously have both in large supply. What's your name, dearie? 
 Sissy. 
 Hmmm. I'd say that you have an intelligent, kindly, somewhat artistic nature. However, Sissy, however, there is a heavy quality to the second phalanx- the phalanx of logic -- that indicates a capacity for foolish or clownish behavior, a refusal to accept responsibility or to take things seriously and bent to be disrespectful of those who do. Your mama tells me that you're pretty well behaved and shy, but I'd watch out for signs of irrationality. All right? 
 I guess the most important aspect of your thumbs is the, ahem, over all size. Uh, what was it, do you know, that caused...? 
 Don't know; the doctors don't know... 
 Just lucky I guess. 
 Do you study history in school? Galileo, Descartes, Newton? Lebinitz had very large thumbs; Voltaire's were enormous, but, heh heh, just pickles compared with yours. 
 What about Crazy Horse? 
 Crazy Horse? You mean the Indian? Nobody that I've ever heard of ever troubled to study the paws of savages. Well, I guess that about covers the three-fifty charge... 
 MRS. HANKSHAW Husband. 
 Beg your pardon? 
 MRS. HANKSHAW Husband. Will she find a husband? 
 Oh, I see. 
 I see men in your life, honey. I also see women, lots of women. 
 A husband, no doubt about it, though he is years away. There are children, too. Five, maybe six, but the husband is not the father. They will inherit your characteristics. 
 
 I've traveled through the Yucatan with a circus, popping false eyelashes off a trained monkey with a bullwhip. When I ate peyote one night and had a vision. Niwetükame, the Mother Goddess, came to me on the back of a doe, hummingbirds sipping the tears she was shedding, crying 'Delores, you must lead my daughters against their natural enemy. You must come to the Rubber Rose Ranch and prepare for your mission, the details of which will be revealed to you in a third vision....' That night I whipped the shit out of my black lover and ran away. For a while I drove around, making a living selling peyote buttons to hippies, until I made my way here... 
 Going north? 
 You bet your raggedy white ass I am. 
 (taking an alarming interest in her thumbs) Thanks. 
 American Cheese. The king of road food. 
 Are you in show business? 
 I was a successful model once. 
 For magazines? 
 I was the Yoni Yum feminine-hygiene Dew girl from 1965 to 1970, but got laid off. 
 So now you're bummin' around? 
 Yep. 
 Hitchhiking? 
 I'm the best. 
 You're the best? 
 When I was younger, I hitchhiked one hundred and twenty-seven hours without stopping, without food or sleep, crossed the continent twice in six days, cooled my thumbs in both oceans and caught rides after midnight on unlighted highways. 
 Whooee! 
 As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style. Time in terms of M.P.H. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. When I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe. I am in a state of grace. 
 Right off, I don't remember how old I was when I found out I was part Indian. My mamma's family, a lot of them, had lived out West, in the Dakotas, and one of them had married a squaw. Siwash tribe. My pleasure in Indianhood and my passion for car travel might be incongruous if not mutually exclusive........ After all, the first car that ever stopped for me had been named in honor of the great chief of the Ottawa: Pontiac...... 
 NEW YORK CITY. It's still a helluva town.... 
 Tired... 
 A born freak can only go uphill. 
 I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to be. 
 Does that mean you might have an assignment for me? 
 Bonanza Jellybean? 
 Your ranch? 
 A job for me? 
 The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday female deodorant sprays may cause such harmful reactions as blisters, burns and rashes. Although the FDA judges that the reported reactions are not sufficient to justify removal of these products from the market, they are sufficient to warrant the proposed mandatory label warnings. 
 If you don't want me to pose for him, why do you want me to meet him? 
 But Countess... 
 Why, yes, technically. Jack Kerouac and I came awfully close, but he was afraid of me, I think... 
 (her brow spaghettied) What makes you think this watercolorist and I would develop a romantic relationship? 
 Well, okay. I'll try it. I don't see the point in it, but I'll try it. Just for you. It's kind of silly, actually, me going out with an artist in New York City. However... 
 
 Me neither. 
 Right. I don't know about you but I'm sure not sweet enough to melt. 
 I want to complain that some of the cowgirls have been sleeping two to a bunk again, in violation of the agreement that "crimes against nature" are to be confined to the hayloft. 
 I don't care who lay with whom or where or how, but the moaners, groaners and screamers ought to turn down their volume when others are trying to sleep or meditate. 
 My sacred crocodile! She's flipped. 
 I move that the meeting be adjourned. 
 At the end of the endless game, there is friendship. 
 What the heck did she mean by that! 
 We'd better take you home. 
 I beg your pardon. I've been enthralled with your photographs for years. When the Countess hinted that you might like to meet me -- he never explained why -- I was ready to paint for him free of charge. And now I had to go and spoil it. 
 This is dreadful. (lowering her voice confidentially) You know, asthma attacks are brought on by emotional stress. Poor Julian is so high strung. The excitement of meeting you -- my dear, you look so stunning! -- must have upset his chemical balance. 
 Come on, Sissy, don't be afraid of us. 
 I've never ridden in a cab. The whole idea of paying for a ride makes my thumbs hurt. 
 It'll be all right, dear. It isn't as serious as it sounds. 
 There, that ought to beat them bronchial buggers into submission. 
 I was a medic in the Army. I really should have become a doctor. Sometimes, though, I feel that pushing books is a whole lot like pushing medicine. Think of books as pills. I have pills that cure ignorance and pills that cure boredom. I have pills to elevate moods and pills to open people's eyes to the awful truth... 
 Too bad you don't have a pill for bullshit. 
 (changing the subject) Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw? 
 I'm staying with the Countess. 
 I know, but where do you reside when you aren't visiting New York? 
 I don't. 
 You don't? 
 Well, no, I don't reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving. 
 A traveler, eh? 
 You might say that, although I don't think of it as traveling. 
 How do you think of it? 
 As moving. 
 Oh. 
 How... unusual... 
 Mmmmm... 
 Rupert, before you get too engrossed in your research on Scotch as a cure for aging, don't you think you'd better phone Elaine's and cancel our dinner reservations? 
 (O.S.) What would we do without you, Carla? Without our little efficiency expert, Carla, everything would just go to hell. Carla is thinking about running for mayor next year, aren't you, Carla? 
 (O.S.) Up yours, Herr Doktor Book Salesman. Will the demands of your medical practice allow you to call Elaine's or shall I? 
 (O.S.) Oh let me do it. 
 No Indian blankets... no Indian blankets... 
 Where are the others? 
 Oh, Rupert and Carla had a little hassle and went home. 
 Julian fell asleep on the couch; we covered him up. 
 We thought that we should make you comfortable too. 
 Yes, thanks... 
 Mine are fuller but yours are more perfectly shaped. 
 Highly debatable. I'll wager they're the exact same size. 
 Hmm. Yours are larger, Marie, but Miss Hankshaw's -- Sissy's -- are more firm. You'd think they would have started to droop; I mean, from not wearing a bra. 
 Howard! Watch your manners. You've made her blush. Here, Sissy, let me compare. 
 (in ecstasy) This place is finer than the place I live! 
 So this is what it's like... so this is what it's really like. 
 Oh, Sissy. I am sorry about all the fuss. 
 (with downcast eyes) I apologize. 
 It is the measure of Western Civilization that it can encompass in harmony, balance off, as it were, such divergent masterworks as A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM and THE AMERICAN DREAM, as the dome of the Sistine Chapel and the ceiling of the Paris opera. 
 What's the matter? 
 I'm cold. 
 Here. I'll turn down the air conditioner. 
 It's not the air conditioner that's making me cold. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds. 
 What are you doing? 
 Getting dressed. I've got to go. 
 But I don't want you to leave. Please stay. We can go to dinner. I owe you a dinner. And tonight... we can... really make love. 
 I have to go, Julian. 
 Why? Why do you have to go? 
 (somewhat frantic) My thumbs hurt. I've made a mistake. I've been negligent. I haven't exercised. I have to hitchhike a little bit every day, no matter what. It's like a musician practicing his scales. When I don't practice, my timing gets off, my thumbs get stiff and sore. 
 I will hitch with you, out where tall birds wade in a lake named for my Siwash kin. Out where Smokey the Bear lay down his shovel to romp with more playful beasts. Out where starlight has no enemies and the badland wind no friends. Out where the boogie stops and the woogie begins. 
 Extraordinary! 
 Oh, you! I'm not talking about her hands. They're difficult to ignore, I confess, but I'm speaking of her whole being. Her whole being is extraordinary. The way she talks, for example. She's so articulate. 
 Countess. I'm really in a dither. She's turned my head. 
 I think she's disappointed that I'm not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She's got some naive, sentimental notions about Indians. I'm sure she liked me, though; but.... then she left town. 
 How does she like what in bed? 
 Well.... er... 
 Oh, we didn't get it all the way on. 
 I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault. 
 If we Ivy Leaguers aren't earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don't go around indulging in racist terms such as 'Chink.' Next thing I know, you'll be calling me 'chief.' 
 What guy? 
 Are you a pilgrim? 
 No, I'm more of an Indian The trio doesn't smile. 
 She means are you going to see the Chink? 
 Oh, I may and I may not. But seeing him is not my main objective out here. 
 That's good. Because he won't see you. We came all the way from Minneapolis to see him and the crazy bastard tried to stone us to death 
 Yeah, but I no longer believe that guy's a master. He's just a dirty, uptight old mountain man. Why, he pulled out his pecker and shook it at Barbara. I'd stay away from there if I were you, lady. 
 By any chance are you Sissy Hankshaw? 
 Yes I am. 
 My goodness. Why didn't you telephone? Someone would have driven into Mottburg to pick you up. I'm Miss Adrian. From the ranch. The Countess wrote that I should expect you. Get in, won't you? You must be exhausted. Gloria, assist Miss Hankshaw with her luggage. 
 Little twit. (turns to Sissy) You really ought to have phoned. We were just in Mottburg escorting some guests to the afternoon train. (sighs) More guests leaving ahead of schedule. Three checked out today. They decided to transfer to Elizabeth Arden's Maine Chance spa in Phoenix, Arizona. It costs two hundred and fifty dollars a week less at the Rubber Rose, so why are our guests leaving and going to Elizabeth Arden's? 
 I'll tell you why, it's that plague of cowgirls. They've gradually infiltrated every sector of our program. The one named Debbie considers herself an expert on exercising and diet. With Bonanza Jellybean's permission and against my explicit orders, she's been coercing the guests into trying something called kundalini yoga. Do you know what that is? It's trying to mentally force a serpent of fire to crawl up your spinal column. Miss Hankshaw, our guests can't comprehend kundalini yoga, let alone do it. Yesterday, she ordered a new cookbook by a Tibetan Negro, entitled Third Eye in the Kitchen: Himalayan Soul Food. God knows what that will be like. The little barbarians are destroying everything that I've built, mocking all that the company stands for. And there's a new one, one they call del Ruby. She has the good will of a scorpion. I've considered it prudent to avoid a confrontation that might further upset the guests. But now that the season is practically over -- we operate April through September -- and the Countess is finally coming... 
 We have a team of fifteen hair experts from all over the world. 
 And fanny flab flies off in this room at the rate of six hundred and seventy-five pounds a day... that's a lot of salted ham, Sissy.... 
 Our special guest Miss Sissy Hankshaw is with us. 
 Cool! We're going to make a movie!... 
 O merciful Jesus! They're murdering the guests! 
 Where are the guests? 
 Take it easy, lady. They went on a short ride with the cowgirls. Rode over the hill yonder. You're Miss Adrian, aren't you? We need to talk to you about the filming. 
 Not now, you fool, not now. Those crazed bitches have led innocent women out and are slaughtering them at this moment. We'll all be killed. Oh! Ohhh! 
 There's a slaughter going on all right, but it's not the fat ladies that are getting it. Your hired hands are killing the cattle. 
 The cattle? They're killing the cows? All of them? 
 (interrupted while putting a zoom lens on his camera) That's what they said, Miss Adrian. 
 How dare you slaughter the Countess's cattle! What is a ranch without cows? 
 We're going to replace them with goats. Most of the cattle are diseased and in pain. We're just putting them out of their misery. According to Bon-an-za Jellybean, the Rubber Rose is in-di-cat-ive of the Countess's values. He has purchased a cheap weak strain of cow to begin with and with improper care.... 
 Oh heavens! I don't want to hear what Bonanza Jellybean has been telling you girls.... Come on Sissy. I'll show you to your quarters. 
. 
 Excuse me, Miss. Do you care for your breakfast now? 
 Yeah. I feel a bit hungry. 
 Road food. How did you know? 
 Well it is a change of our usual grapefruit and melba toast, I'm sure. 
 Bonanza Jellybean.... 
 She will be up to see you directly. 
 Er, you seem to know who I am, and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the breakfast. 
 No, I'm afraid that part isn't true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. Besides, I always travel alone. 
 Tell me about it. 
 About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl. 
 You're political, then? 
 Really? The Chink, huh? I've gathered that you sometimes speak with him. What else have you learned from the Chink? 
 It's cute. Way cuter than a cow. 
 Goats are always testing you. They're like Zen masters. They can tell instantly if you're faking your feelings. So they play games with you to keep you true. People should go to goats instead of psychiatrists. 
 It's so loving. 
 Look at those playfully wise eyes. 
 Ooo! It licked me! 
 I'm aware that Tad Lucas rode broncs until her ninth month, but I don't think pregnant cowgirls are going to be any asset on this ranch. I hope you itchy clits who are sneaking down to the lake every night are taking precautions. It's bad enough we've got cranes coming; we don't need storks. I feel that those film makers should be removed from the Rubber Rose as soon as possible. Men can cause nothing but trouble here. I also feel that our guest (she nods at Sissy) should be excused while we discuss this matter further. 
 What is Debbie's position? 
 You don't agree with Debbie, then? 
 He's here. 
 Look at him. Perverse as a pink pickle. 
 He's in a snit. He wants to see you right after the barbecue. 
 You will all be rounded up and sent to prison if you take this any farther! This is not your ranch!!!! 
 (shaking her fist) Go to your bunkhouse and remain there! 
 Better reach for your spray cans! 
 Ha ha ho ho hee hee. 
 Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
 Wait! 
 Well, aren't you going to shake your whanger at me? 
 (laughter dies a nervous chipmunk death) Follow me. I'll fix you supper. 
 I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's. 
 I know who you are. 
 Oh? Well, there's been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It's so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help... 
 (voice that wears no pants) Save your breath for the climb. 
 Yip! Yip! Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
 Personally, I prefer Stevie Wonder, but what the hell. Those cowgirls are always bitching because the only radio station in the area plays nothing but polkas, but I say you can dance to anything if you really feel like dancing. 
 But I don't know how to polka. 
 Neither do I... ha ha ho ho hee hee. 
 (thinking) So this is how Jelly spends her visits to the Chink. 
 What was that? 
 Clockworks. 
 Clockworks? 
 The Clockworks is one reason that I am here on Siwash Ridge. I accepted the invitation to be initiated as a shaman by an aged Siwash chief who was the principle outside confederate of the Clock People. 
 Siwash, huh? 
 He was a degenerated warlock who could turn urine into beer, and the honor that he extended me gave me rights of occupancy in this sacred cave on this far-away Siwash Ridge. I came to the Dakota hills to construct a clockworks of my own. 
 But unlike the clockworks of the Clock People, my ticks more accurately echo the ticks of the universe.... (he listens) ......ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
 The Clock People? 
 During the Second World War I busted out of Tule Lake detention camp; as a Japanese-American, I had been put there and watched over. I found refuge with the Clock People, who discovered me in a snow bank, near dead, I had been climbing across the Sierra Nevada mountains. 
 Then if you are Japanese, then why are you called the Chink? 
 The Clock People mistook me for Chinese. And the name stuck. In the same way that all Indian tribes came to be labeled "Indians" through the ignorance of an Italian sailor with a taste for oranges, it is only fitting that "Indians" misnamed me. The Clock People, however, are not a tribe, rather they are a gathering of Indians from various tribes. They have lived together since 1906. 
 The pivotal function of the Clock People is the keeping and observing of the clockworks. It is a real thing, and is kept at the center, at the soul, of the Great Burrow. Insofar as it is possible, all Clock People deaths and births occur in the presence of the clockworks. Aside from birthing or dying, the reason for the daily visits to the clockworks is to check the time. 
 These people have no other ritual than this one. Likewise, they have but one legend or cultural myth: that of a continuum they call the Eternity of Joy. It is into the Eternity of Joy that they believe all men will pass once the clockworks is destroyed. The destruction must come from the outside, must come by natural means, must come at the will of this gesticulating planet whose more acute stirrings thoughtless people call "earthquakes." 
 The Earth is alive. She burns inside with the heat of cosmic longing. She longs to be with her husband again. She moans. She turns softly in her sleep. In the Eternity of Joy, pluralized, deurbanized man, at ease with his gentle technologies, will smile and sigh when the Earth begins to shake. I loved those loony redskins, but I couldn't be a party to their utopian dreaming. After a while it occurred to me that the Clock People waiting for the Eternity of Joy was virtually identical to the Christians waiting for the Second Coming. Or the Communists waiting for the worldwide revolution. Or the Debbies waiting for the flying saucers. All the same. Just more suckers betting their share of the present on the future, banking every misery on a happy ending to history. Well, history is ending every second - happily for some of us, unhappily for others, happily one second, unhappily the next. History is always ending and always not ending... ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
 What do you believe in then? 
 Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. 
 If this be adultery, make the most of it. 
 I don't know anything about it. 
 Well, he's not out of danger, but I think we can safely say he's going to make it. I'd be pretty surprised if he didn't. However, there is evidence of injury to the frontal lobe, and I have reason to fear that this injury may be permanent. The patient may never again function as a normal human being. 
 Brain damage? You mean he's going to be a vegetable? 
 Vegetable? Vegetable? I wouldn't say that, no. We won't ascertain the extent of the injury for some days. But there is a genuine possibility of severe and lasting behavioral defects. I wouldn't classify it in the vegetable category, however. 
 I'm going to give it to you like you've never had it before. Oh, you didn't know it could be this good. You're gonna like it. You're gonna like it. You're gonna like it so good. You're gonna love it so much you're gonna cry. You're gonna cry. You're gonna cry and cry. Do you like to cry? Do you like it when it hurts a little bit? Whatever happens to you, it'll be worth it. The way I'm gonna give it to you, it'll be worth anything. Everything. Go ahead and cry if you want to. I like it when women cry. It means they appreciate me. 
 N.J. 
 
 D.C. 
 RICHMOND, VA 
 DR. DREYFUS I'm afraid I can't help you. 
 But Doctor. 
 Please, child, don't be dismayed. We all have problems these days. But as the painter Van Gogh said, 'Mysteries remain, sorrow or melancholy remains, but the everlasting negative is balanced by the positive work which thus is achieved, after all.' I don't suppose that means very much to you. I have retired. A victim of a malpractice suit. 
 (embracing him) Oh, Doctor! You've got to do it. You and nobody else should be allowed to take away my gift. 
 DR. DREYFUS Ah, the thumb. 
 DR. DREYFUS The thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb. One of evolution's most ingenious inventions; a built-in tool sensitive to texture, contour and temperature: an alchemical lever; the secret key to technology; the link between the mind and art; a humanizing device. The marmoset and the lemur are thumbless; none of the New World monkeys has opposable thumbs; the spider monkey's thumbs are absent or reduced to a tiny tubercle; the thumbs of the potto are set at an angle of one hundred eighty degrees to the other digits. 
 DR. DREYFUS And so you are demanding at last the privileges of thumb that nature has perversely denied you? 
 I just want to be normal, give me that old-fashioned normality. It was good enough for Crazy Horse and it's good enough for me. 
 DR. DREYFUS Ah, yes. Very well, my dear. Here is what we can do. 
 We'll be back with a court order and a fistful of search warrants. 
 And make sure at least one of them is female, and you better do as we say or there may be trouble. 
 ...Siwash Lake and in apparently healthy condition. 
 ....The cranes have built brooding nests around the whole circumference of the small lake, and have... 
 The Rubber Rose Ranch has issued a communiqué that was sent to the federal judge and copies of a recording to the press, today. 
. 
 That's Jellybean! 
 -- 
 JELLY'S VOICE WHILE WORKING TOWARD A DAY WHEN THE CREATURES OF THE WORLD NO LONGER HAVE TO SUFFER MAN'S EGOISM, INSENSITIVITY AND GREED. WE REFUSE YOUR ORDER. WE SAY TAKE YOUR ORDER AND SHOVE IT. THIS FLOCK OF BIRDS IS STAYING WITH US. GET LOST, MAC. 
 Man, this is the stupidest music I've ever heard. This radio should have stayed in the privy where it belongs. 
 Howdy. 
 You know what you're getting into if you come over to the lake... 
 Yes, but I want to be there. I want to see Jellybean. I want to see the cranes. 
 We heard on the radio that the judge has set Delores's bail at fifty thousand dollars. Now she won't be here when we really need her. 
 Ain't that just like women. 
 So be it. It looks serious this time, though. All these guns... are you actually prepared to kill and die for whooping cranes? 
 How did this business get started, anyhow? Why are the birds nesting here? 
 You were aware that we were feeding them, weren't you? We fed them brown rice and they stayed over a couple of extra days. Then we decided to try something different. We mixed our brown rice with fishmeal -- whoopers love seafood, and fishmeal is cheap. Then Delores suggested another ingredient, and we think that's what did the trick. 
 You mean... 
! 
 They're drugged. 
 No, I guess not. 
 But the peyote is obviously affecting their brains. It's made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years. 
 The way I see it, is that the peyote mellowed them out. Made them less uptight. They were afraid of bad weather and humans. That's why they migrated and kept to themselves. But the peyote has enlightened them. It's taught them there is nothing to fear but fear itself. Now they're digging life and letting the bad vibes slide on. Don't worry, be happy. Be here now. 
 Fear in wild animals is completely different from paranoia in people. In the wilderness ecosystem, fear is natural and necessary. It's merely a mechanism for maintaining life. If the cranes hadn't had a capacity for fear, they would have disappeared long ago and you'd be having to get loaded with common old everyday meadowlarks and mallards. 
 Judge Greenfield, at the request of the ACLU, has granted a forty-eight- hour extension of the deadline by which the Rubber Rose cowgirls must comply with his order. Negotiations between the cowgirls and the government are expected to follow. Another item in, the forewoman of the Rubber Rose Ranch, a Delores del Ruby is now free on bond after having been arrested in Mottburg with more than fifty pounds of peyote buttons. Her bail has been paid by the owner of the besieged ranch, Countess Products, Inc. Miss del Ruby's bail having come from the tycoon's personal advisor, a certain Dr. Robbins of New York City. 
 Dr. Robbins? 
 If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts.... 
 It isn't for ourselves that we take this stand. It isn't for cowgirls. It's for all the daughters everywhere. This is an extremely important confrontation. This is womankind's chance to prove to her enemy that she's willing to fight and die. If we women don't show here and now that we aren't afraid to fight and die, then our enemy will never take us seriously. Men will always know that, no matter how strong our words and determined our deeds, there's a point where we'll back down and give them their way. 
 I'm prepared to win! Victory for every female, living or dead, who's suffered the temporary defeats of masculine insensitivity to their inner lives! 
 I'll fight the bastards. 
 The sun's going down. Let's those of us not standing watch get some sleep. In the morning we'll plan our fight. Tomorrow afternoon those of you who'd like can join me in the reeds, where the cranes and I will be sharing the last crumbs left in the peyote sack. 
 It is woman's mission to destroy as well as to give birth. We will destroy the tyranny of the dull. But we can't destroy it with guns. Or whips. Violence is the dullard's Breakfast of Champions and the logical end product of his or her misplaced pride. Violence fertilizes that which we would starve. No, we will destroy the enemy in other ways. The Peyote Mother has promised a Fourth Vision. But it won't come to me alone. It will come to each of you, to every cowgirl in the land, when you have overcome that in your own self which is dull. The Fourth Vision will come to some men too. You will recognize them when you meet them, and be their steady sidekicks in equal and ecstatic escapades of poetic behavior and romance. 
 First thing, you must end this business with the government and the cranes. It's been positive and fruitful, but it's gone far enough. Playfulness ceases to serve a serious purpose when it takes itself too seriously. Sorry I won't be with you at the conclusion. As you know, I've been sick and stupid for a long time. I have a lot to make up for, a lot to accomplish, and there's someone important that I've got to see. Now. 
 Jelly! Please! 
 She's going to fire.... 
 You've got two minutes to come out with you hands over your heads! 
 
 A The brown paper bag is the only thing civilized man has produced that does not seem out of place in nature. Crumpled into a wad of wrinkles, like the fossilized brain of a dryad; its kinship to tree (to knot and nest) unobscured by the cruel crush of industry; absorbing the elements like any other organic entity; blending with rock and vegetation as if it were a burrowing owl's door mat or a jack rabbit's underwear, a No. 8 Kraft paper bag lay discarded in the hills of Dakota and appeared to live where it lay. Once long ago, it had borne a package of buns and a jar of mustard to a kitchenette rendezvous with a fried hamburger. More recently, the bag had held........ love letters. 
 As a hole in an oak hides a squirrel's family jewels, the bag had hidden love letters in the bottom of a bunkhouse trunk. 
 Then one day after work, the button- nosed little cowgirl to whom the letters were addressed gathered bag and contents under her arm, slipped out to the corral... 
 ...past ranch hands pitching horseshoes and ranch hands flying Tibetan kites, saddled up and trotted into the hills. 
 A mile or so from the bunkhouse, she dismounted and built a small fire; she fed the fire letters. 
 ...one by one, the way her girl friend had once fed her french fries. 
 As words such as sweetheart" and "honey britches" and "forever" and "always" burned away, the cowgirl squirted a few tears. Her eyes were so misty she forgot to burn the bag. 
 You know, podner, you can tune a guitar but you can't tuna fish. 
 God, but it's good to be a cowgirl. 
 Is everything getting worse? 
 Yes, everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better. 
 The Countess has come to our aid. The Rubber Rose Ranch is officially deeded to all the cowgirls. And I have been asked to oversee the ranch. For $300 a week. And as it turns out, the Countess is not going to be the vegetable the doctors thought he was... here's a picture! 
 I want to go back to the Clock People. I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they're up to. What's happened to Jelly? 
 She had a one way-ticket to Kansas City. 
 You mean she's dead? 
 But that's an old story now...... I can't believe that you would leave the Butte. 
 Easy come, easy go. 
 Wow, you sure have a way with words. 
 I can't help it if I grew up in an antipoetic culture. Language will be different when I'm with the Clock People though. They're from an oral tradition. And I'm not talking about what you horny hop toads do in bed every night. 
 Well, if the Clock People give you any inside information on the end of the world, drop us a postcard. 
 The world isn't going to end, you dummy; I hope you know that much. (he grows uncharacteristically serious) But it is going to change. It's going to change drastically, and probably in your lifetime. The Clock People see calamitous earthquakes as the agent of change, and they may be right, since there are a hundred thousand earthquakes a year and major ones are long overdue. But there are far worse catastrophes coming... unless the human race can bring itself to abandon the goals and values of civilization, in other words, unless it can break the consumption habit -- and we are so conditioned to consuming as a way of life that for most of us life would have no meaning without the yearnings and rewards of progressive consumption. It isn't merely that our bad habits will cause global catastrophes, but that our operative political-economic philosophies have us in such a blind crab grip that they prevent us from preparing for the natural disasters that are not our fault. So the apocalyptic shit is going to hit the fan, all right, but there'll be some of us it'll miss. Little pockets of humanity. Like the Clock People. Like you two honeys, if you decide to accept my offer of a lease on Siwash Cave. There's almost no worldwide calamity -- famine, nuclear accident, plague, weather warfare or reduction of the ozone shield -- that you couldn't survive in that cave. 
 Suppose that you bear five or six children with your characteristics. All in Siwash Cave. In a postcatastrophe world, your offspring would of necessity intermarry, forming in time a tribe. A tribe every member of which had giant thumbs. A tribe of Big Thumbs would relate to the environment in very special ways. It could not use weapons or produce sophisticated tools. It would have to rely on its wits and its senses. It would have to live with animals -- and plants! -- as virtual equals. It's extremely pleasant to me to think about a tribe of physical eccentrics living peacefully with animals and plants, learning their languages, perhaps, and paying them the respect they deserve. 
 How am I going to be the progenitor of a tribe when I'm living on an isolated ridgetop with Delores? 
 That's your problem. 
 Listen to the way I'm babbling. That bullet must have loosened one of my transistors. Don't pay any attention to me. You've got to work it out for yourself. The westbound choo-choo leaves Mottburg at one-forty. I want to be on it. Will you drive me to the station? 
 Schedules! Ironic how I have to follow timetables in order to get back to the clockworks. 
 Don't ever bet against paradox, ladies... 
 
