 
 What should we eat? 
 (very sexy) You know what I'd really like? 
 Some fruit. 
 
 (THINKS) No. He scans the nearby trees. 
 
 
-- The game is no longer cute but he still plays along. 
 
-- 
 Nope. 
 
 (POINTS) That one. Zed looks. It's a beautiful tree with lush, apple-like   red fruit hanging from it. 
 (SCOFFS) Yeah, right. Okay. 
 Why not? 
 Why not? 
 Why not? 
 So do you always follow the rules? 
. 
 Okay, fine. We won't. Forget I mentioned it. I understand if you're afraid-- 
 No, really, it's all right. I just thought you might be curious why we can eat everything else that walks, crawls, swims, flies, or grows in the ground, but not that particular fruit. And I thought you might be the kind of man who's willing to take a chance and start thinking for himself, but I guess I was wrong. She glares defiantly at Zed, then starts to walk away. It's not Paradise anymore. Then like every man that ever lived and will ever live, he caves. 
 You first. 
 We both bite at the same time. Zed considers for a long moment then decides. 
 So you're saying it's not good? 
 (noticing something) Ooh, banana! 
 (blunt grunt) For you. 
 (forces a grateful smile) Thank you, Marlak. 
 
 Why did you eat that fruit? It's forbidden. Everybody knows that. 
 I think, and I could be wrong, that all the poop makes the ground more fertile, which in turn, gives the leaves in the area a softer feel. It's a vicious circle. Oh notices a very pretty young woman, EEMA, standing near the communal fire with TWO HUNTERS. His heart leaps.                                                              (cont'd) (calls out eagerly) Hi, Eema! Eema turns, sees it's him and gives him a perfunctory wave, then turns back to the hunters and says something about Oh that makes them laugh. 
 (LOVE-STRUCK) I want to lay with her so badly. 
 Of course not! She's your sister! It'd be like sleeping with your mother. 
 My hut's a mess. And what if she struggles? 
 
 (SIGHS) No. She only likes hunters-- not gatherers. They look over at Eema, who is now slowly stroking the shaft of a hunter's spear. 
 You didn't hunt today. 
 (points at a drawing) What's that supposed to be? 
 That's not a bear. That's just some lines on a skin. 
 (SIGHS) It's not a real bear. It's a "representation" of a bear. You know, a "picture." 
 That's stupid. 
 And what's that? He picks up a skin with another of Zed's drawings on it, this one of a big-breasted naked girl. Zed quickly grabs it and holds it upside down. 
 (trying to look at it upside down) It looks like Maya. 
 Stay away from my woman. 
 (walking off) Stay away. 
 (taking the pipe from Zed) Okay, I think somebody's had enough. 
 You make babies-- 
 You always get like this when you smoke. Oh takes a big toke on the pipe, chokes, and starts coughing uncontrollably. 
 (looks up at the sky) No. 
 There's nothing on the other side of the mountains. Everybody knows that. The world just ends. You'd fall right off the edge. (makes a sharp gesture) 
)) And if you keep walking you eventually come right back to where you started? He traces the circumference with his finger. 
 
 (SCOFFS) Oh, yeah, that's plausible. Zed flings the rock away. 
 A (O.C.) Oww! 
 (tries to cheer him up Will you stop with that crazy talk? We're at a feast. You love feasts. There's women, there's boar meat, there's an assortment of berries-- there's women-- Oh looks over at Eema. Zed picks up on it. 
 You think? They're playing the Jackal Dance. I don't do that one so well. 
 Hey! Wait your turn! There's a line here, buddy! 
 Enmebaragesi said he saw you in the garden with Maya. 
 I'd kill you. 
 Enmebaragesi doesn't lie. Villagers gather around them, Maya and Eema among them. Marlak puts his spear point to Zed's throat. (cont'd) The truth! 
 Zed, just admit it. You're just making it harder on yourself. 
) Maya and I lay together on occasion. We're consenting adults and we have an adventurous sexual relationship. Maya looks shocked, and tries to signal Zed to shut up. 
 
 No, I saw you eat the Forbidden Fruit. 
 
 (FORCEFUL) Hey! What's going on? Marlak growls at him. OH                                                        (cont'd) (quickly looks up at the 
) Oooh, shooting star. 
 (standing over Zed) Your father was a great hunter, but you're like-- a girl. The hunters laugh. 
 Good one, Marlak. 
 Zing. 
 Now I kill you. He's about to spear Zed when suddenly the Shaman screams and jumps between them. The villagers step back as the Shaman howls an incantation and shakes his magic rattle at Zed. 
 (leaning close to Zed) We need to talk. 
 You really ate the fruit? 
 (halfheartedly shakes a chicken-foot rattle at 
 Whatever. You're screwed now. 
 You're cursed, man, and if you stay here then we'll all be cursed. You have to leave. 
 Up to you. From now on you're completely on your own. 
 (DEFIANT) Oh, really? 
 (to Zed, re the hunters) You should probably get going now. You better take this knife. He hands him a flint knife with a leather-wrapped handle.                                                          (cont'd) And some of the guys got together and they want you to have this bow. He hands him a strong hunter's bow. 
 (to Zed) You'd better get moving. Zed looks around at his fellow villagers, trying to summon what dignity he has left. 
 (DEFIANT) Okay, but before I go I just want to say something. I know I'm not the greatest hunter-- 
 (O.S.) --Or gatherer-- 
-- Zed looks at oh, who suddenly becomes very interested in an imaginary piece of loincloth lint. ZED                                                             (cont'd) (looks directly at Oh) I don't know where we're going or when we're going to get there, but I will lead the way-- (he picks up a burning 
) lighting up the darkness-- pointing us in the right direction, and keeping us entertained with humorous anecdotes from my childhood. Now who's with me? He enthusiastically thrusts the torch in the air. 
 (raises his spear, to Zed) Now you die. Marlak throws his spear and misses as Zed takes off running into the forest with the hunters right behind him and the whole village ablaze. 
 I see you. 
 Yes, I do. 
 You're trying to trick me. 
 (nobody's fool) You think I'm going to turn around and look, but I'm not. (pulls his knife) I'm going to gut you like a pig. He is about to plunge his knife into Zed when suddenly he is struck from behind by a heavy tree branch. He falls heavily, knocked senseless by Oh who is standing over him with the makeshift club. Zed sits up and smiles gratefully at Oh. 
 I guess I'm with you. 
 No, the fire. I lost everything. 
 Can we talk about this later? Oh pulls Zed to his feet, and they sneak off into the deep woods. 
 
 (SULLEN) Yeah, it's great. 
 I don't think they'll forget the fire. 
 If it's that huge how would we carry it back? 
 Yeah, we'll make everyone watch us eat a squirrel. Will you get real? There's no going back! There's, nothing to go back to! It's just ashes. 
 (SCOFFS) Yeah, like it's so hard to build a new hut. It's just a pile of sticks and dung-- 
 
 (SCOWLS) You're a pile of sticks and dung. Suddenly, Zed stops and stands perfectly still. 
 What are you doing? Zed makes a minimal gesture with his head. Oh looks up. A COUGAR crouches on a tree limb above them, poised to leap. Oh freezes. They talk like ventriloquists. 
 Will that work? 
 What are you going to do? 
 
 (BITTER) I just want to know why you told me not to move, and you ran. 
 Yeah, big favor. 
 Yes, you did! You looked right at me-- twice. 
 
 (HUFFY) No, eat your weasel. You deserve it. He turns his back to Zed, and starts sorting through the pile of sticks. 
 No, arrows. We're going to need them. 
 
 (in amazement) Incredible. He takes a step forward, the rock shelf gives way beneath his feet and he falls a great distance, screaming all the way down, bouncing painfully off the big boulders, then a long, tumbling slide over sharp rocks and gravel to the bottom. 
 (WINCES) Oooh.                                                           - (then calls out) I'll go around! Wait for me! 
 I see a pattern. Every time something terrible can happen to me, it does. 
 (looking around) You think? There's about a thousand footprints here. 
 No, thank you. 
 (a little disgusted) Okay. 
 Okay! Enough! Can we just go? Maybe we can find where they peed. 14                                                              Then Zed sees light through the trees and creeps   14 stealthily to the tree line. Oh creeps up beside him and they peer through the bushes. THREE COWS are grazing in a green pasture. Beyond it, well- tended fields of growing grain. Zed snaps into stalking mode, ducks down and silently signals Oh to be quiet and stay put. 
 (WHISPERS) This one's mine. He takes his bow, pulls an arrow from his quiver, and slowly draws the bow, taking deadly aim at one of the cows. He shoots. The blunt, pointless arrow hits the cow in the side and bounces off. The cow looks up. 
) Yeah, well-- we're hunters. 
 (covering for himself) He's a hunter. I'm more of a "maker." I made this loincloth, I do arrows-- I made a shelf unit for my hut-- 
 You are called suck. 
 My brother is angry because God looked on my sacrifice with favor. 
 (mimics him) "God looked on my sacrifice with 
--" (to Oh) Okay, is he a total suck or what? 
 Well, it's hard to say-- we just 
-- 
 Why are you dragging them into this? What do they know? They're morons. 
 (to Abel) You think you're so superior to everyone else. 
 Superior-er than you. 
 Really? Let's see how good you are at getting your ass kicked. (shoves him) 
 Yeah? Bring it! (shoves him back) 
 (won't let it go) No! This smug asshole insulted you and I want him to take it back. 
 (pushes Abel hard) Take it back! 
 (pushes back) Make me! Zed steps between them, trying to make peace. 
 Shouldn't we do something? 
 (turns on him sharply, still holding the bloody 
) What?! 
 He's all right. Probably just 
 (humoring him) Probably just tuckered out from the fight. 
 (looking around nervously) Yeah. 
 (turns on them) You could've stopped me! There's two of you and only one of me. 
 You calling me a murderer? (he clutches the rock) 
 It was an accident! (to Oh) Right? 
 Right! You were holding the rock and he-- accidentally ran into it-- really hard-- with his head. 
 (calming down) Okay-- yeah-- good. But it might be better if we don't mention the "accident" to anyone. People might get the wrong idea. Understand? 
 Oh, yeah, people could so easily misinterpret that. 
 (SHRUGS) Why even bring it up? 
 
 (NODS) I like you guys. You're all right. Why don't you come with me? Have supper with the family. 
 I think you should come with me. 
 (his idea) why don't we go with you? 
 They're wheels, numbskull. They make the cart roll. 
: 
 (hailing Cain) Cain, my son! 
 Hail, Father. Cain stops the cart and dismounts with Zed and Oh.                                                             (cont'd) Can these guys stay for supper? (off Adam's questioning 
) I bring strangers who would sojourn with us this night. Cain turns to Zed and Oh and furtively mimes an elaborate lip- sewing gesture, ancient precursor to the modern lip-zipper. 
 Greetings, strangers. I am called Adam and you are welcome to share the fruits of our toil. 
 (to Cain) Where is thy brother, Abel? 
 (badly overplaying) Abel? Haven't seen him. I thought he was with you. (to Zed and Oh) You guys see him? They shake their heads and cough nervously. 
 (to Cain) Your sister Lilith said she saw him in the field with you. 
 I think that was yesterday. 
 No, this day. She said you both made offerings. 
 That might've been Boaz--- 
 No, you and Abel. She said it looked like you were arguing. 
 Hey, we're brothers, we argue sometimes- it's not that big a deal. 
 And his flock was untended in the 
-- 
 
 (EXPLODES) Okay! What am I-- his keeper? Get off my back, will you? He smashes his plate against the wall and storms out. An awkward silence as Zed and Oh exchange guilty looks. 
 I fear the worst for Abel. I am sorely vexed. 
 For my sin the ground is cursed. Thorns and thistles does it sprout for us, and we are doomed to toil all the days of our lives. For as the Lord has commanded, by the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat until you return to the ground from which you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust shall you return. 
 It's the way of the world. 
 (rises abruptly) You are welcome to stay the night and lay with my daughter Lilith. Zed looks at the luscious Lilith, then back at Adam. 
 She is without a husband, and as the Lord has said, thou shalt be fruitful and multiply. Lilith nods demurely and exits through a curtain. Zed starts to follow her out. 
 Hey! What about me? 
 You may share the bed of my son Seth. 
 I multiplied with a sheep. (Oh just stares at him) My thingie smells like lamb chops. 
 (making room on the cot) My bed is small but you're welcome to share it. It's the way of my people. 
 I don't like men. 
 I like girls. 
 (SUAVE) So we have that in common-- 
 (stares at him for a beat) I'm attracted to women. 
 I like to have sex with other women. 
) I'm really not getting this. Lilith shakes her head, turns away from him, and pulls up her blanket. Zed shrugs and rolls over to sleep. They lie there quietly in the dark for a long beat. Then-- Zed                                                             (cont'd) You're kidding! Whoa! That's amazing! 
 Oooh, listen to this one. Seth lifts his knees to his chest and farts a surprisingly long cadenza. 
 That's really good. 
 Want to see a trick? 
 Do I have to? 
 It's been the same damn thing my whole life. (swings the axe-- thwack!) "Why can't you be more like Abel?" (thwack!) "Oh, your sacrifice was good, too, but Abel's was-- wow!" (thwack!) 
 (trying to change the 
) Your brother Seth is an interesting guy. Did you know he can put his penis in his mouth? Adam and Zed come out of his dwelling. KINSMEN from other dwellings start gathering. 
 Cain! 
 Yeah, hey-- where's everybody going? 
 To look for Abel. 
 
 (MUTTERS) Good luck. 
 What did you say? 
 (louder, mock sincerity) I said good luck. I'm really worried about him. He turns aside and makes a goofy sarcastic face for Oh's benefit. 
 You're not coming? 
 Yeah, I am. I just have to finish toiling over here, then I'm right behind you. Adam and the others hurry off, and as soon as they're gone, Cain rushes over and starts harnessing the oxen to the cart.                                                           (cont'd) (to Zed and Oh) Now listen, I'm getting out of here, and you better come with me. I have a feeling they're going to try and blame this whole "Abel- killing-thing" on you. 
 Because when they find him and his head is all bashed in, they're going to start pointing fingers, and you guys are drifters, so they'll put two and two together and that makes-- He stares expectantly at Zed and Oh.                                                           (cont'd) Four! It makes four! Now stop asking so many questions and hop on. We gotta get out of here! He urgently whips the oxen and they climb aboard as the cart lumbers forward. 
 
-- (to the others) After him! The farmers shout and race back to the hamlet. 
 (urgently, to Zed and Oh) They're gaining on us! Zed and Oh look back. 
 The other oxcarts are a hundred yards back, "chasing" them at maybe two miles per hour. Cain whips his oxen and they step up the pace to 3 MPH. 
 
 (GLEEFUL) Hah! They'll never catch us now! An aerial view shows Cain's cart slowly pulling away from his pursuers. Suddenly a bolt of lightning splits the bright blue sky and strikes Cain right on the forehead, knocking him back into the cart. He sits up stunned, with a still-smoking, jagged burn mark on his forehead. 
 (to the Merchant) Can I have one of those? He reaches for a loaf but the MERCHANT strikes his hand with a cane.                                                              (cont'd) Ow! 
 Two silver pieces. 
 
 (HUNGRY) We're gonna need some money. 
 (addresses the crowd) Next up, an unusual item-- looks like a Caucasian-- he's big, he's strong, he's a good breeder, so I'm going to start at                                               100        gold minas. Do I hear                                                       100? As the bidding starts, Zed spots Maya, his sister Eema, and Enmebaragesi among the chained-up slaves waiting to be sold. Zed and Oh push their way through the crowd and go to them. 
 
 (SHEEPISH) Hi, Eema. 
 Oh. 
 Well, after the fire-- (she shoots him an accusing look)) --the hill tribes raided the village. The men fought them but they were too many. They took us captive, marched us to the sea, then traded us to the boat people who brought us here. 
 (to Eema) Are you all right? Did they-- rape you? 
 
 (SHRUGS) Just a little. Zed and Oh look at her curiously. The SLAVE TRADER sees them talking to Eema and approaches. 
 You interested in some slaves? 
 You have money? 
 (CAGEY) Well, that depends on what you mean by money? 
 Look, pal, money talks and bullshit walks. I don't have time for looky- loos. 
 
) Let me talk to the guy. Maybe I can make a deal with him. You guys wait here. Cain puts his arm around the slave trader's shoulder and walks him away. CAIN                                                        (cont'd) (to the slave trader) So what are we lookin' at here? From a distance, Zed and Oh watch them talking, but can't hear what they're saying. 
 (to Eema) What an amazing coincidence-- running into you and Maya and them. 
 
 (THINKS) I don't know. Why do you think? 
 To get laid? 
 Hey! 
 which omnipotent force? 
 I don't know! What's "omnipotent" mean? 
 Why would he want that? 
 How do you know God's a "He?" Zed rolls his eyes. 
 You think we've been chosen by God? 
 Why would God choose you? Why wouldn't he choose Marlak? He's stronger. 
 You do have a fat face. 
 
 (SCOFFS) You're not even-- I'm smarter than you! 
 You're both idiots! 
 Because of you? 
 (calls them over) Hey! Come here. I think we worked something out. 
 
 
 (to the crowd) All right! Next up is a twofer-- I'm selling them as a pair-- I know they don't look like much-- but I'm starting the bidding at sixty gold minas. Do I hear sixty? 
 (NOTHING) Remember, it's two for one here. Do I hear fifty? Anyone? That's only twenty-five apiece, folks. 
 (NOTHING) Zed looks out at the crowd, starting to get offended. SLAVE TRADER (cont'd) You're breaking my heart here. How about forty? Do I hear forty? 
 (NOTHING) 
 Thirty-five? Thirty? 
 (SHOUTS) Come on, people! We're a steal at thirty! 
 They probably don't know how smart you think you are. Finally, a Bedouin SHEIK raises his giraffe-tail fly whisk and waves it at the slave trader. 
 Yes! Sold to Sheikh Hassan for                                  30 gold minas! (to Zed and Oh) Have a good time in the salt mines, boys. 
 
 ZED                                                             (CONT'D) 
 (GROUCHY) Hey, pal! You can take your foot out of my ass anytime now. 
 (BEAT) And your foot is still there. If I turn around, you will be sorry. Zed twists violently and manages a full turn which brings him face to face and crotch to crotch with Maya. ZED                                                             (cont'd) That's better. 
 For you maybe. 
 So does everybody else. 
 (over his shoulder) Get away from my woman! 
 I'll kill you! Marlak starts muscling and squirming his way through the body pile trying to get to Zed. 
 
 (MEEKLY) Why? Suddenly Zed feels Marlak's hands around his neck, grabbing him from behind. Zed struggles but Marlak manages to pull him into a full headlock, forcing Zed's face into his hairy armpit. 
 (calling to Zed) Hold on! I'm coming! Oh tries to maneuver to Zed, but can't move an inch.                                                            (CONT'D)                                            (cont'd) If everyone could just move to the right. Please? Thank you in advance for your cooperation. (then, giving up hope) You can do it, Zed! Use his weight against him! Marlak now has Zed locked in a lethal choke hold. 
 (shouts at the slaves) Knock it off! Don't make me come in there! 
 A comes flying over the crest of the wadi followed by TWENTY ARMORED FOOT SOLDIERS wearing bronze helmets and breastplates. The soldiers attack the caravan, slashing and slicing the Bedouin guards. Their commander, SARGON, his helmet topped with a magnificent plume, rides up in the chariot and with one mighty stroke of his sword cuts the head off ANOTHER BEDOUIN GUARD. Marlak reaches through the bars, grabs the fallen Bedouin's sword and hacks off the lock on the door of the slave wagon. The door flies open and the slaves tumble, jump and stumble out onto the ground. Zed and Oh look around, gawking at the massacre taking place. Then Zed sees Marlak, sword in hand, looking for him. 
 (shouts an order) Take the slaves! Marlak starts for Zed but two soldiers ride up and throw a heavy restraining net over him. Zed grabs oh and takes off running over the nearest sand dune. Sargon watches them flee. 
 A Sir, shall I pursue them? 
 No. Let the desert have them. They won't get far. 
. 
 Tend to the slaves. We leave for Sodom before daybreak. 
 Yes, sir. 
 (WHISPERS) I wonder who they are. Their hats are really great, aren't they? 
 Their hats? I'm sorry, but when that one guy cut the other guy's head off, my first thought wasn't, "Gee, what a great hat." 
 (WATCHFUL) Now we just need to figure out a way to rescue Maya and Eema. 
 How are we going to rescue anybody? They're killers! 
 
 (YAWNS) Not that well. I think I was over- tired. Then Zed suddenly remembers Maya. He looks and sees that the soldiers and slaves are long gone. 
 Now where do we go? Zed sniffs the air, puts his ear to the ground, and tastes the sand. 
 (too weak to move) Why do I listen to you? Now we're going to starve to death or die of thirst. 
 You know, I've asked people about that and no one else seems to remember it. 
 (practically delirious) He was a small man. Oh collapses face down in the sand. Pull back to reveal that they are surrounded by hungry jackals, vultures and hyenas. 
 Hey, Dad? We making a burnt offering? 
 Yes, Isaac. As God has commanded me. 
 
 The Lord will provide the sheep. Abraham takes a cord and starts tying Isaac's hands together. 
 
 (PANICKED) All right, this isn't funny anymore! Abraham raises the knife. ISAAC                                                           (cont'd) I'm telling mom! The knife flashes in the sun as it descends toward the boy. 
! Abraham and Isaac both turn to see Zed and Oh step out from behind the rocks. Their clothes are tattered and they are burnt raw by the sun. ZED                                                             (cont'd) What are you doing to that kid? 
 
 No, I was going to sacrifice him. There's a difference. 
 By what right do you interfere? Art thou an angel of the Lord? 
 (nods sagely) Verily, thou wast sent to stay my hand by the Eternal one, blessed be He. 
 (NODS) Whatever you just said. Oh helps Isaac off the altar stone and unties him. 
 (confidentially to Oh) He's nuts! I'm telling you-- he's totally lost it. 
 (to Zed) I am Abraham, son of Terah of the house of Nahor. 
 The tents of my kinsmen lie just beyond. There will you find all that you desire. Come. 
 (to the assembly) My brothers, let us give thanks unto God for staying my hand on the mountain this day. 
 (humoring him) Best dad in all the land, everyone! 
) Praise be to God, hallowed be His name. 
 And for the bounty which He hath bestowed unto us. 
 Friends, whence comest thou? Zed and Oh look at each other blankly. 
 
 
 Are they nice? 
 The Lord has cursed them for their abomination. 
 They bow down before false Gods and worship graven images. 
 The men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink. 
 Their women are whores; their shameless lust knows no bounds. They flaunt their flesh without shame and any man may have knowledge of them. 
 (he's sold) And where exactly are those cities? 
 
 (getting up) Accompany me. Abraham sweeps out of the tent. Zed and Oh jump to their feet and follow. Isaac tags along. 
 Their fate is sealed. But for my faith and devotion, the self-same God has given unto me the whole of this land, from the Jordan to the Negev, from the river of Egypt to the great Euphrates. This did He grant to me and my seed. He raises his arms and spreads them wide. 
 For eternity. 
 
 (SCOFFS) Yeah, God just forgot to tell anyone else. we're having a war with someone like every five minutes. 
 (scowls at him) I and my kinsmen have vanquished our enemies by the mighty hand of the Lord, praised be He. Zed and Oh fake their way through a ritual response. 
 --of his wealthy bounty. Abraham gets a strange faraway look in his eyes. 
 Therefore, to signify my Covenant with the One True God, on this night will I circumcise the flesh of my foreskin, and of you and every male who dwells hereby. 
 ZED                                                 OH Excuse me?                                          I'm not clear-- 
 Here we go again-- 
 we will grasp the foreskins of our penises and cut therefrom the extra flesh. 
 (AGHAST) I'm not sure I have any extra. 
 Couldn't we could just get our ears pierced? 
 (aside to Zed) Okay, what did I tell you-- nuts? 
 No. So it shall be written, so it shall be done. (to Isaac) Get my big knife. Zed and Oh both reflexively cover their crotches. 
 You have any idea where we're going? 
 The city! He said God's going to smite them with holy fire! 
 He seemed to know what he was talking about. 
                                                           (O.C.) Hey, wait up! Zed and Oh turn to see Isaac running towards them. 
 (out of breath) I'm coming with you. 
 You're going to Sodom, right? 
 Yeah, whatever. If I show you how to get there, will you buy me a bottle of wine? 
 Fine. Then we'll just stand here. 
 Shining in the moonlight, the magnificent city of Sodom set atop a broad hill surrounded by high walls. 
 Me and my friends sneak in on the weekends. We hang around, pick up on the babes, drink some wine, get wasted on killer hash-- 
 Thanks, Grandpa, but I've been smoking for four harvests, so I think I'm okay. They start down toward the city. 
 Gee, they're not open. We should probably come back later. 
 You just have to knock. They always let me in. (to Oh) Go ahead. 
 Me? Why do I have to knock? What if we're waking somebody up? Let's just get out of here. 
 
 (shouts at him) Halt! Isaac stops a safe distance away and turns back to taunt the guards. 
 You gonna make me? (dancing and dodging like a boxer) You and what army? 
 (shouts back) Yeah! 
 What's this now? 
 They were banging on the gate. Hebrews, from the look of them. 
 Should we wake the Sergeant? 
 You don't want to do that. He gets pretty mean when you wake him. 
 Meaner than this? The sentry grabs Oh's nipple and twists. Oh SCREAMS loudly. The guards freeze at the sound of his scream and look nervously to a closed door at one end of the room. 
 (from behind the door, 
) 
 Don't have to wait 'til morning. 
 (to another guard) Get my big stick. I'll deal with the fat one first. 
 (to Zed and Oh) Welcome to Sodom. As he takes a big backswing, Zed and Oh shut their eyes and prepare for the worst. 
                                                         (O.C.) Stop! Zed and Oh turn to see Cain at the door, dressed like the other guards in breastplate and helmet. 
 Wait! I know these guys! 
 Brothers!! He embraces them. They look confused and doubtful, but relieved. 
 You know, you guys are lucky that sergeant is a friend of mine. I let him sodomize me once right after I got here and he's been real nice to me ever since. 
 
 wait a second. Do I detect a tone here? 
 (instantly offended) Whoa whoa whoa! Hold a grudge much? That was like a fortnight ago. 
 Give me a break! I was dealing with the death of a close family member and I needed some space. But now I realize that you guys are like my brothers. And it's so rare to find a brother that you love. Right? He embraces them. 
 
 (EXUBERANT) Now, you guys hungry? Watch this. Cain walks up to a food vendor's stall and stares menacingly at the VENDOR. He raises his fist. The vendor cowers. 
 We are so in! She's eye-knowing us like crazy. 
 You're gonna love Sodom. Trust me. It's crazy. This morning, I almost got a handie behind that pita stand. 
 Well, I kind of have a girlfriend-- not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl I like, so I shouldn't-- 
 Hey, what happens in Sodom, stays in Sodom. He takes a jug of wine from the stall of a WINE MERCHANT. The merchant just bows obsequiously and keeps his mouth shut.                                                            (cont'd) You know, if you guys are staying you should join the guards. The pay's not great, but there's tons of perks. I'm telling you, it's the only way to go. Cain grabs a piece of candy from a SMALL CHILD and stuffs it in his mouth. The child starts crying, Cain kicks her in the ass and she runs away. 
 (to the child) Sorry. 
 Come on, I'll introduce you to the captain. 
 You look good, but I think my hat's too big. They notice an OFFICER staring at them.                                                              (cont'd) (to the officer) Do you happen to know where I could get a smaller hat? The officer pops him on the head with a truncheon. 
 
 (ROARS) Line up! Zed and Oh hustle into line, orders are shouted and the troop marches off. 
 Pretty much. We just look for troublemakers and kick the living shit out of 'em. 
 If we see a thief or a pickpocket, we just slap him around-- maybe cut off a finger or an ear, or the tip of his nose, lower lip-- anything you can just grab and slice in one fluid motion-- then we take our share of the loot and let him go. Mostly what we worry about are activist types, rabble rousers, getting people all riled up against the King or the Temple Priests. That's death for sure. 
 Harsh times, brother. We're in the middle of a famine. People are starving. If we don't get some rain soon, it could get ugly. (looking forward to it) Then we'll get to start kicking ass big time. He stops to flog a BEGGAR with his hand out.                                           (cont'd) Beat it, you filthy beggar! 
 You can't blame people for being hungry. 
 Yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the people. 
 Gee, I wonder why? The royal guard takes his foot off Zed's neck and they all get back to their feet. 
 The Princess Inanna. She's totally hot, but don't even think about it. 
 Because she's royalty and you're scum? The entire crowd starts moving in the same direction as the royal entourage. 
 Where's everybody going? 
 To the temple. Let's go. (starts walking) You have to see this. 
 Everybody will be there. 
 The Princess isn't eating? 
 I find it hard to eat when so many are hungry. 
 (as if ) Your concern is enviable. 
 
 (POUTY) And besides, I'm so fat. The Queen,                                                    40's, still beautiful, reacts. 
 (for the hundredth time) You're not fat-- 
 Yes, I am, mother! Those new linen pants you got me from Egypt make my ass look just huge. 
 Well, you can't keep starving yourself. 
 Why not? Everybody else is starving-- present company excluded. 
 Careful, Princess. You may be my step-daughter, but these are dangerous times and those are dangerous words. I weep for the suffering of my people, but the spirit of rebellion is alive in the city and if necessary I will crush it with every means at my disposal. 
 
 (warning her) For the good of everyone who enjoys the favor of the throne. 
 Whatever. I'm just so incredibly bored. 
 (intoning pompously) O El, lord of Heaven and Earth; Baal, the Sublime; Shapash, goddess of the sun; Hadad, the storm god, over-ruling son of Dagon, the bountiful, god of grain, our earthly sustenance-- 
 Isn't that the idiot who was standing up in the street? Maya sees him, too, and starts fuming. The High Priest continues. 
 We come before you in humble supplication, invoking your blessing, the sweet rain which waters our fields, enriches the harvest, fills our storehouses, makes mighty the house of Ish-ka-bi- baal and the city of Sodom-- The King nods graciously.                                                   (cont'd) --and feeds us, your children, with the bounty of your grace. 
 She glances at Zed again, but this time a slight smile crosses her lips. Zed grins back at her. The Princess whispers something to her handmaiden Maya and subtly points Zed out to her. Maya nods obediently, glaring at Zed, and starts fanning the princess a little too vigorously. 
 Accept now this humble sacrifice to the power and glory of your magnificence. He starts inspecting the Vestal Virgins, beautiful young women in diaphanous, almost transparent white gowns. 
 He's picking a virgin. 
 
 To throw into the fire. 
 (like talking to an idiot) Offering to the Gods. There's a famine going on. If we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. No rain, no harvest. No harvest, no food. Get it? 
 It's pretty self-explanatory. 
 You throw the virgin in the fire so it'll rain? 
 Duh. 
 
 For the love of the Gods and the glory of their Creation, the great dome of Heaven, the green growing Earth, we commit this maiden to your Holy Fire. Another great cheer from the crowd as they throw her into the fire. 
 (eyes downcast) The Princess wishes to see you. 
 (staring at her cleavage) Her wish is my command. 
 Not you. Him. (points at Zed) 
 The three of us are inseparable. We're like brothers. Cain squeezes both their shoulders and gives Maya an artificial smile. 
 The two of you follow me. 
 (to Oh) This is Zaftig the Eunuch. You go with him. Oh is led away by the Eunuch as she takes Zed off in the opposite direction. 
 Can't I go with him? 
 (laughs at the thought) Hah! No? That would be weird. 
-- The Eunuch just shrugs, apparently not that weird to him. OH                                                            (cont'd) 
 You've been living here since you were nine? (looks around, impressed) I should look into that. How do you get to be a eunuch? 
 
 (SHRUGS) Trust me, after a while you don't even miss them. 
 
 Six sacrifices in the last ten days and still no rain. What do the entrails predict? 
 (nervously poking at the sheep heart) Well, the liver is streaked with gray-- that's not a favorable sign-- but the heart looks good. See how nice and red it is here. That's always a good omen. 
 What does it mean? 
 Usually it means that the sheep took very good care of itself, probably sticking to a high-fiber diet of grass and hay. 
 What does it mean for us? 
 Well, it could mean either a surprise visit from a former friend or sweetheart-- or that you're going on a long sea voyage! Wouldn't that be fun? 
 
 Because I'm your brother? 
 Perhaps it's time for a new High Priest. 
 (his eyes go wide) Perhaps it's not time for a new High Priest. Aaaahh! He dramatically flings his fingers out at the Prime Minister, as if wielding the power of the Gods. Nothing happens.                                                     (cont'd) And let that be a warning to you. Next time, I will hurl a lightning bolt at your face. 
 (CONSIDERS) Or a fire-ball. 
 (ignores him) Majesty, there's talk of revolution in the streets. Grain and oil are scarce, prices are high, starving peasants are pouring into the city looking for food-- 
 Poverty has a bitter taste, but it's the flavor they were born to. It's the will of the Gods. The Queen and Princess Inanna are lounging on cushioned divans, listening. 
 
 (BLASE) Can the Gods really be so cruel? 
 I don't think that's cruel. It's just practical. If everybody was rich, who'd wait on us? Maya approaches and whispers something to the Princess. 
 Good. See that he's bathed and dressed, then bring him to me. Maya frowns and exits. (cont'd) (to the queen) This should be amusing. 
 
 Just like Abel. I oughta just bash your head in-- 
 
 As you wish. 
 I had no choice. I'm a slave, remember? 
 (not buying it) Wait here until you're sent for. 
 Of course not. You were just chosen again. Maybe after you and the Princess get together you can start thinking about someone beside yourself. She walks off before he can answer. Zed shakes his head, looks around the room, then STARTS walking past a row of "LIVING STATUES," semi-nude men and women on pedestals covered head to toe in gold body paint, frozen in heroic postures that show off their beautiful bodies. Zed looks closely at one beautiful nude "GODDESS", then furtively reaches out and fondles her breast. The goddess slaps his hand, then resumes her pose. 
 watch it, jerk! 
 (through clenched teeth) I'm not supposed to talk. I'm a statue. 
 How's it going? I just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what I mean. How's it going with you? 
 That sounds nice-- for you. 
 There's Eema! Eema has been beautifully groomed and is now dressed as a household slave. She stops to serve some rowdy OFFICERS who take the opportunity to tease and fondle her. She tries to pull away but Sargon, the general, grabs her arm. 
 Stand still, wench! I want to see what's under that skirt. As he starts to lift her hem, she drops the whole tray of food on him. His cohorts laugh. 
 I'm sorry! It was an accident. 
 That was no accident! Sargon grabs her and raises his hand to hit her. Zed steps in quickly. 
) I told you to fetch me more wine! Apologize to this officer--- now! 
 I'm sorry. 
 Try using a hot poker. That they understand. 
 We were sold to the palace. But I won't serve these people! I'd rather die! 
 What are you doing here? (notices his clothes) Have you joined them? 
 I haven't joined anything. (re the gold body paint) Does this look like fun? They both look accusingly at Zed. 
 What? Like human sacrifice? 
 (to Oh) What happened to him? 
 Here we go again-- 
 
 
 (MIFFED) Why would I think that? Just because you couldn't take your eyes off her-- 
 
 (not buying it) Forget it. Maya sees A GUARD watching them and reverts to her slave attitude. (cont'd) (bowing to Zed) The Princess awaits you. 
 He has no idea what he's doing, does he? 
 I don't know. So much has happened. Sometimes I think-- She walks away.                                                              (cont'd) (wistfully, to himself) I love you. 
 (to Oh) You there! Golden boy! Rub me with oil. The High Priest dismisses the young men, then stands and lets his rich outer robe fall to the floor. His chest, back and shoulders are incredibly hairy. 
 I'd rather not, if you don't mind. I'm not really a slave. I'm a guard. 
 Then maybe you'd rather I speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. Or perhaps I whip you myself? How would you like that? 
 Are those my choices? 
 I'd say so. The High Priest lies back down. Oh looks around, finds a pitcher filled with precious oil and dribbles some on the High Priest's hairy chest. 
 How's that? 
 More. 
 (splashes a few more drops on him) That enough? 
 (getting angry) No! More oil! Much more, you insolent dolt! Oh pours oil liberally over his chest, back, and shoulders.                                                   (cont'd) That's good. Now rub it in. 
 
 Do it! Oh grimaces and starts gingerly massaging the oil into his hairy chest and shoulders.                                                   (cont'd) (in ecstasy) Mmmmm, I love it. The sweet scent of precious oil. The oily-- oiliness. Eema walks by with a pitcher of wine and sees Oh massaging the High Priest. She gasps. 
 
 
 No, really! I'm just-- rubbing oil on this man. She exits. 
 Mnum imam. I have an idea. Why don't we go back to my place and see what's under all that paint? 
 
 Good luck. 
-- She leaves him. A haze of heavily scented incense hangs in the air. 
 (O.S.) Come to me. Zed turns and sees the Princess standing on the terrace. 
 Beautiful, isn't it? You can see Gomorrah just over the hill. 
 They're called the "twin cities." 
 (toying with him) And what do you think? Am I evil? 
 Do you find me attractive? 
 (moving closer) I have body issues. 
 (a beat) My eyes are brown. 
 I don't know. I just find you-- interesting. They say it's the will of the gods that some men should suffer while others rule-- that we're all just victims of our fate. And I believed that until this morning when I saw you standing up, alone, in the square. And I said to myself, finally here's one man who refuses to bow down to anything-- 
-- (considers explaining but just lets it go) Yeah. That's me. 
 Yes, finally a man who has the courage to question the order of things--- a man chosen by the Gods to do something great. 
 (gets very, very close) I know why. To bring you here-- to this place-- to me. 
 (SMITTEN) I couldn't agree more. I'm trying to agree more, but I can't. That's how much I agree. 
 Come. She takes his hand and leads him away. A SHADOWY FIGURE watches them from behind a curtain. 
 My life is devoted to the service of the Gods and the good of the people. I take nothing for myself. He has a huge gold ring set with precious gems on every finger, and a gold tiara on his head studded with rubies and emeralds. 
 That's so-- unselfish of you. 
 Yes, it is. It's just so-- lonely. Sometimes i hunger for the touch of another human being. 
 (COY) Here's a riddle: what has two thumbs and wants another oil rub? (pointing thumbs at 
 So where does that hall lead to? 
 (his eyes light up) Come, I'll show you. He takes Oh's arm and leads him down the hail toward a set of incredibly impressive doors covered with cuneiform writing and arcane religious symbols.                                                     (cont'd) Behind those doors is the Holy of Holies-- the earthly domain of the 
 Wow. (a long beat) So who cleans it? 
 it needs no cleaning. 
 No, of course not. (can't let go of it) Kind of makes you wonder though-- the guys who built it, did they just die the minute they finished, or did the Gods give them a second to get out? 
 (starting to get annoyed) I assume they finished it, then the Gods descended. 
 Yeah, that's probably it. (another long beat) So you're saying we can't go in? 
 I just told you! To enter is instant death! Only I can go in and only once a year after very elaborate purification rituals and days of special prayers and offerings. 
 
 (BEAT) What if we just open the doors and stick our heads in? 
 Fine! Enough! I'm sorry I brought it up. Let's go. (pushes Oh along) Move. Move. He shoos him down the hall. 
 I want you to enter the Holy of Holies. 
 
 (POINTS) That's the Holy of Holies-- you have to go in there and talk to the Gods. 
 So they say, but the only one who ever goes in is the High Priest. They say it's instant death for anyone else to enter. 
 
 (IMPATIENT) Because you were chosen? If the Gods wanted you dead they would have killed you already. 
-- 
 This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside. 
 Do you always follow the rules? 
 Do this for me. 
) Okay, I don't know the right words-- so I'm just going to say what I have to say-- if that's all right. (waits for a response, gets none, proceeds) I know I haven't always done the right thing. Eating the fruit was bad, I know that-- and the Cain thing-- and I have done somethings with women-- I do love the ladies-- well, you probably know all that because you're watching everything-- (a thought occurs) Do you really watch everything? That's got to be a little disgusting sometimes-- but probably pretty hot, too-- 
 (NOTHING) Feel free to jump in anytime. I could use a little guidance here. Still no response. He rolls over onto his back. ZED                                               (cont'd) Look, I know you think this place is evil and it kinda is-- I see that-- but that's not everybody. There are a lot of good people, too. So what if there were, like, fifty really good people? Would you still destroy the city? 
 (SILENCE) Okay, you're right, that may be a reach. How about twenty? I could probably get you twenty extremely good people if I really looked around. 
 (SILENCE) How about five? Five awesome people-- including myself. I personally know at least five people worth saving. Does that sound good? 
 (NOTHING) Hello? A little help? Am I getting warm here? Okay, is it me? Are you punishing me for stuff I did? (an insight) Or setting me up for what I need to do. Or both! Or neither? 
 (NOTHING) Could you give me some kind of a sign-- please-- anything? Zed listens but hears only a profound silence. Then a revelation. He sits up on the floor. ZED                                                           (cont'd) Okay, wait. Is that the sign? The silence? Is that it? (waits for confirmation) It is, isn't it! Just this really silent-- silence. 
 
 
 (SHRIEKS) Seize them! 
 (scared, points at Zed) Seize him! The guards arrest Oh as Cain steps up and takes hold of Zed. 
 
 What have you done for me? I've been attacked by a cougar, I've fallen down a mountain, I almost had the tip of my thingy cut off, I've been greasing up the High Priest all night, and now I'm hanging upside down in a dungeon. And I have to pee real bad. All because of you. You call yourself a friend? Name one good thing you've done for me. 
 (in distress) I really have to pee-- 
 
 (STUNG) Okay, be mad, but I'm going to get us out of here, if it's the last thing I do. Zed starts frantically yanking on his shackles to no avail. ZED                                                           (cont'd) That was just my first idea-- and I'm also accepting ideas. 
 
 (SHOUTS) Guard! I have to pee! Now! Seriously! (can't hold it anymore) Oh, no-- 
 For the crimes of blasphemy-- (the crowd grumbles its 
) 
-- (grumble, grumble) 
-- (serious grumbling) 
-- (admiring oohs and aahs) And the murder of my brother Abel-- 
 Shut up! For these and other crimes they may not actually have done yet but we're pretty sure they were thinking about, the prisoners will be stoned to death. The crowd roars as GUARDS stationed around the square pull canvas covers off big baskets of rocks and the people rush to grab stones to throw. Zed and Oh instinctively move closer to each other. 
 The King, Queen, High Priest and Royal Ministers observe the stoning from their vantage point above the square. Princess Inanna refuses to look. 
 Observe, my dear. It seems the least you could do, since it was you who lured him to his death. She reluctantly turns and looks at Zed. 
 I didn't intend for this to happen. 
 (to Zed and Oh) Anything to say before the sentence is carried out? 
 
-- 
 (SHOUTS) 
 
 (some eagerly raising their hands and waving like school children) Yes! Ooh, me! Pick me! Me! 
 (re Cain) What is that idiot doing? 
 Him? 
 He's just a kid! 
 Yeah! What's he got against kids? Children are the future! Give the kid a shot! The kid! The kid! On the balcony, the King shifts uncomfortably, intimidated by the power of the mob. He nods to Sargon who signals to Cain. 
 All right! All right! We'll try it. Kid! Grab a rock. The boy picks up a good-size rock. Zed turns to Oh. 
 
 Okay, everybody on this side now! On the count of three! One-- two-- 
 And his friend! Don't forget his friend! On the balcony, the King and his ministers hastily confer with the High Priest. 
 Could it be? Is he truly chosen? 
 I don't-- I suppose it's possible- I'd have to examine some new 
-- 
 Imbecile! 
 Majesty, with respect, whether he's chosen or not is no longer the issue. To kill him now, given the public mood, could inflame the situation enough to prompt a radical "regime change," if you take my meaning. The King looks grimly at his ministers, all of whom have lean and hungry looks. Princess Inanna smiles contemptuously at him. 
 By order of the King, the sentence has been commuted. The crowd cheers. Zed and Oh exchange hopeful looks. 
 
 (PLAINTIVE) Can't we just stone them a little? 
 It is the judgement of our most merciful King that the prisoners are to be enslaved to toil at hard labor until they die of exhaustion or starvation. 
 Okay, you think that actually makes anybody work harder? It just makes them resent you. Is that what you want? 
 (whips him again) Faster! 
 Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace. 
 No. You're not just like me. 
 #2 Take those bricks to the top. The masons are waiting. 
 #2 (strikes him across the back with his stick) I said move! 
 #2 One more word and you die-- 
) Okay, boys, on the count of three. One-- two-- three! Marlak and Enmebaragesi lunge against the ropes, but Zed makes no effort to pull. They glare at him. ZED                                                           (cont'd) Learned that from Maya. Good trick, huh? Okay, together this time. Go! 
 Up to Heaven, I guess. That's how tall they usually build 'em. 
 We worked on the Tower of Babel. Now that was a ziggurat. 
 Incredible erection. Zed looks down at his crotch. 
 The tower. 
 See, the Egyptians are working on an entirely different concept. Four sides, slanting walls, pointy top. 
 Like a pyramid? 
 Exactly. 
 Wow. Far out. Yet timeless in a way. A SLAVE CHILD approaches with a water bucket. 
 (to Zed) Want some water? As the child offers him the ladle, Zed recognizes her. 
 (standing over him) Who's going to take her there? The Chosen One? Marlak kicks gravel and dirt in Zed's face. Zed just lies there and takes it, feeling like he's failed everyone. Then he hears the beating of drums and trumpet fanfares coming from the temple square below. 
 Get in line! Now! Move! 
 Where're we going? 
 To watch the sacrifice. The King demands it. 
 Is that compulsory? Because I saw one when I first got here and it made me a little sick-- The guard's whip catches him across the back.                                                             (cont'd) Ow! Why don't you try using your words for a change? 
 (leering seductively) At your service, my lady. Anytime, anywhere. 
 
 
 Are they booing me? How dare they! 
 Your Highness, with all due respect, those were "Woos." They love you. They were "wooing" you. The King looks doubtfully at the hostile crowd. 
 All is in readiness, Majesty. 
 (glares at the King) What now? More virgins to sacrifice? 
 Yes, two, followers of the Chosen One, discovered by this loyal soldier. Cain bows to the King. 
 Just doing my duty. 
 And one more to demonstrate our own faith and charity. The King stands and makes a proclamation loud enough for everyone to hear.                                                       (cont'd) In supplication to the Gods, for the love of the People, we offer a humble sacrifice to the sacred temple fire-- our own step- daughter, the Princess Inanna! The crowd gasps.                                                       (cont'd) (to Inanna) For the good of the people. 
 (stands in protest) You wouldn't dare! 
 Wouldn't I? If you like, I could arrange for you to join her. The Queen slowly sits back down.                                                            (cont'd) (to Inanna) How long did you think I'd tolerate your insolence? (to Sargon) Burn her.- Sargon and Cain seize Inanna, but she shrugs them off and rises with dignity. 
 I'll see you all in Hell. 
 (casually name-dropping) See the High Priest? I know him. Dear friend of mine. 
 
 (PANICKED) That's Eema! And Maya! I know them! 
 
 That's far enough, slave. Oh stops right there, frustrated and frightened. 
 They're bringing out the women. 
 I see your sister, Eema-- 
 We have to do something! Somebody has to stop it. (turning to the other 
) We can't let them do this! The slaves start to mutter. The guards draw their swords and heft their spears, now on high alert. 
 #2 
 (SNORTS) Over my dead body. 
 All right. Without a moment's hesitation, Marlak grabs him and tosses him off the top of the ziggurat. He screams all the way down. 
 Now what? Zed looks around quickly, grabs the end of a long coiled rope attached to a big pulley, and hands Marlak the other end. 
 We implore the great Gods of heaven to show us a sign that we may honor your divine will and be worthy of your blessing. 
 The whole crowd watches in amazement as the 250                 foot scaffolding slowly collapses and crashes to the ground, bringing tons of debris with it, sending up a great cloud of dust. 
 He seizes the opportunity. 
 A sign! It's a sign! The Chosen One comes! The other slaves and people in the crowd pick up his excitement. 
 The Chosen One! A sign from the Gods! 
 Yes! Well and truly, the Gods are with us-- The crowd drowns him out. 
 Burn them! Now! He grabs Maya and starts dragging her toward the gaping mouth of the idol and the raging fire within. She struggles but is too drugged to put up much resistance. He grabs the sacramental pitcher of oil and starts sloppily anointing her.                                                     (cont'd) 
 (SHOUTS) I don't think so! Zed is standing atop the idol's head, brandishing a sword and shield. 
 She sees him and starts to revive. 
 Zed! 
 (cupping his ear) What did you say? 
 (SHOUTS) I said, 'I don't think so!' 
 (shakes his head) Still not getting it. Zed rolls his eyes in frustration and starts tentatively climbing down from the top of the idol. He jumps the last few feet and lands right in front of the fire, blocking the High Priest's way. 
 
 
 (THINKS) I forgot. 
 (SHOUTS) Guards! 
 (to the Edomite slave) I know him, too. Oh springs into action, attacking the big guard in front of him. The other slaves see that and start fighting with their guards, a genuine slave revolt. 
 Death to the idolators! Abraham's small army of HEBREWS reveal themselves, draw their weapons and attack the reinforcements. The last Hebrew to unrobe is Isaac, who just stands there observing the growing chaos. 
 (shaking his head) Just fucking nuts. 
 Tough guy, huh? You want a piece of me? Get ready to have your head bashed in! 
 I knew I could depend on your loyalty. The ministers all draw daggers from their robes and move in for the kill.                                                            (cont'd) 
 (MUTTERS) Assholes. He falls to their flashing knives. 
 (suddenly shy again) Hello, Eema. 
 (still a little dazed) Oh? He stares at her full red lips and big blue eyes. 
 (suddenly forceful) Eema, you're my woman! You hear me? 
 Okay. 
 Really? It's okay? He pulls her into an embrace and kisses her hard on the mouth. Then, out of the corner of his eye, Oh sees a guard rushing at him. Oh whirls and falls off the platform, accidentally cutting the guards legs out from under him. 
 (screaming and crying) Keep away! 
 (his mascara running) No! The Gods demand a sacrifice! And you ruined it! He wrestles Maya even closer to the fire. 
 
 (SCREAMS) No! A duck would not be good! 
                                                              (U.S.) Then how about this? The High Priest turns to Oh. Oh is holding the big sacramental pitcher.                                                              (cont'd) More oil? 
 
 (SCREAMS) Hot! 
 Everyone goes silent, stunned by the incredible turn of events. All eyes turn to Zed and Oh, now standing before them on the center stage of the temple. 
 All hail the Chosen One! With that the crowd explodes into rousing cheers. In the midst of the crowd, Abraham looks around and scowls. 
 What am I? Chopped liver? At the altar, Maya, revived now, embraces Zed. 
 You're incredible, you know that? 
 Hey, babe. Ever made it with a circumcised guy? Marlak grunts at him and reaches for his knife.                                                           (cont'd) 
 
 We'll tell stories about you around the fire. 
 
 (by his side) I'll listen to you. Oh swells up with pride. 
 (turns to Zed) Come back to the village sometime. Zed nods, they shake hands, then they embrace. Stifling a tear, Oh breaks away and whips the lead camel.                                                           (cont'd) (shouting at camel) Hee-ya! (beat, quietly to camel) Come on. People are watching. The camel looks at him and slowly lumbers off. Oh sighs gratefully and signals the caravan to follow. As the great caravan moves off, Zed is left standing there with nothing but a long staff, and a bundle on the ground beside him to which is tied his sword, shield and helmet. Maya joins him. 
 Where will you go now? 
 Are you going alone? 
 I'll get my things. She gestures off and he sees a small train of camels and horses loaded with a ton of her personal possessions. (cont'd) The Princess gave me a few gifts when she freed us. 
 (POINTS) To the west! 
 (correcting him) That's west. 
 
