 You keep your work station so clean, Jerome. 
 --Next to Godliness, isn't that what they say? 
 I reviewed your flight plan.  Not one error in a hundred thousand keystrokes.  Phenomenal. (placing a hand on Jerome's shoulder) It's right that someone like you is taking us to the Belt. (glancing to notification on Jerome's screen) You have a substance test. 
 (staring admiringly at the discharge) Jerome...never shy.  Pisses on command. You've got a beautiful cock.  I ever told you that, Jerome? 
 (deadpan as he continues to urinate) Only every time I'm in here. 
 I see a lot of cocks.  I speak from experience. Yours is a beautiful example.  Why didn't my folks order a cock like that for me? 
 (walking Jerome to the door) If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while.  One week to go.  Please tell me you're the least bit excited. 
 I'll tell you at the end of the week. 
 JEROME (VO) The most unremarkable of events.  Jerome Morrow, Navigator First class, is only days away from a one-year manned mission to 951 Gaspra in the Outer Asteroid Belt.  Nothing so unique in that.  Last year over one thousand citizens from every walk of life embarked on some space mission or other.  Besides, selection for Jerome was virtually guaranteed at birth.  He is blessed with all the physical and intellectual gifts required for such an arduous undertaking, a genetic quotient second to none. 
 JEROME (VO) No, there is truly nothing remarkable about the progress of Jerome Morrow, except that I am not Jerome Morrow. 
 JEROME (VO) I was conceived in the Riviera.  Not the French Riviera. 
 JEROME (VO) The Detroit variety. 
 JEROME (VO) They used to say that a child conceived in love, has a greater chance of happiness.  They don't say that any more. 
 What are you doing? 
 (shaking her head) I can't do this. 
 (misinterpreting the problem) I told you, the government pays.  It's all taken care of. 
 No, you don't understand.  I can't. 
 (reassuring) The doctor will give you something. 
 (removing the hand, adamant) I'm not doing it. 
 (trying to make her see reason) Honey, you've made one mistake-- 
 (softening her tone) --I've read your profile.  I don't know about the father but you carry enough hereditary factors on your own. (pause) You can have other children. 
 (holding her swollen stomach protectively) Not like this one. 
 (trying to be diplomatic) Honey, look around you.  The world doesn't want one like that one. 
 (irate) You don't know what it will be! 
 (calling out to Maria as she disappears out of the door) The child won't thank you! 
 JEROME (VO) Those were early days--days when a priest could still persuade someone to put their faith in God's hands rather than those of the local geneticist. 
 What's wrong? 
 JEROME (VO) Of course, there was nothing wrong with me. Not so long ago I would have been considered a perfectly healthy, normal baby.  Ten fingers, ten toes.  That was all that used to matter. But now my immediate well-being was not the sole concern. 
 JEROME (VO) My destiny was mapped out before me-- all my flaws, predispositions and susceptibilities - most untreatable to this day.  Only minutes old, the date and cause of my death was already known. 
 The name? (typing details into birth certificate) For the certificate. 
 Antonio-- 
 (correcting her) --No, Vincent Antonio. 
 (hysterical) Oh, Vincent, Vincent, Vincent...I can't let you out of my sight. 
 JEROME (VO) I was born Vincent Antonio Luca.  And from an early age I came to think of myself as others thought of me - chronically ill. Every skinned knee and runny nose treated as if it were life-threatening. 
 JEROME (VO) And my parents soon realized that wherever I went, my genetic prophecy preceded me. 
 JEROME (VO) They put off having any more children until they could afford not to gamble - to bring a child into the world in what has become the "natural" way. 
 JEROME (VO) It meant selling the beloved Buick. 
 VINCENT (VO) My father got a good price.  After all, the only accident he'd ever had in that car was me. 
 (to the nurse, without taking his eyes from his binocular microscope) Put up the dish. 
 Your extracted eggs... (noting the couple's names from data along the edge of the screen) ...Maria, have been fertilized with... Antonio's sperm and we have performed an analysis of the resulting pre-embryos. After screening we're left with two healthy boys and two healthy girls.  Naturally, no critical pre-dispositions to any of the major inheritable diseases.  All that remains is to select the most compatible candidate. 
 First, we may as well decide on gender. Have you given it any thought? 
 (referring to the toddler on her knee) We would like Vincent to have a brother... you know, to play with. 
 You've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin.  I have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions - premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity-- 
 (interrupting, anxious) --We didn't want--diseases, yes. 
 (more diplomatic) We were wondering if we should leave some things to chance. 
 (reassuring) You want to give your child the best possible start.  Believe me, we have enough imperfection built-in already.  Your child doesn't need any additional burdens.  And keep in mind, this child is still you, simply the best of you. You could conceive naturally a thousand times and never get such a result. 
 (squeezing Maria's hand) He's right, Maria.  That's right. 
 Is there any reason you'd want a left-handed child? 
 (blank) Er, no... 
 (explaining) Some believe it is associated with creativity, although there's no evidence.  Also for sports like baseball it can be an advantage. 
 (shrugs) I like football. 
 (injecting a note of levity) I have to warn you, Mr Luca, he's going to be at least a head taller than you. Prepare for a crick in the neck in sixteen years time. 
 (scanning the data on the screen) Anything I've forgotten? 
 (hesitant about broaching the subject) We want him--we were hoping he would get married and have children.  We'd like grandchildren. 
 (conspiratorial smile) I understand.  That's already been taken care of. (an afterthought) Now you appreciate I can only work with the raw material I have at my disposal but for a little extra...I could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability. 
 (suddenly enthused) Antonio, the choir... 
 (interjecting, covering himself) I have to caution you it's not fool-proof. With multi-gene traits there can be no guarantees. 
 How much extra? 
 It would be five thousand more. 
 I'm sorry, there's no way we can. 
 Don't worry.  You'll probably do just as well singing to him in the womb. (rising to end the appointment) We can implant the most successful pre-embryo tomorrow afternoon. 
 What will happen to the others? 
 (reassuring) They are not babies, Maria, merely "human possibilities". 
 Smaller than a grain of sand. 
 JEROME (VO) That's how my brother, Anton, came into the world - a son my father considered worthy of his name. 
 JEROME (VO) By the time we were playing at blood brothers I understood that there was something very different flowing through my veins. 
 JEROME (VO) And I'd need an awful lot more than a drop if I was going to get anywhere. 
 JEROME (VO) Our favorite game was "chicken".  When our parents weren't watching, we used to swim outside the flags, as far out as we dared.  It was about who would get scared and turn back first. 
 JEROME (VO) Of course, it was always me.  Anton was by far the stronger swimmer and he had no excuse to fail. 
 JEROME (VO) My genetic scarlet letter continued to follow me from school to school.  When you're told you're prone to learning disabilities, it's sometimes easier not to disappoint anybody. 
 How many astronauts are there, anyway? 
 I bet I could be one. 
 You're standing on Venus. 
 JEROME (VO) I was popular enough until it got around that I wasn't a long-term proposition. 
 JEROME (VO) Those who didn't know already could easily find out for themselves.  It was certainly no problem coaxing the information out of me. 
 JEROME (VO) I didn't blame them.  You need to know if a prospective husband can qualify for a mortgage or life insurance or can hold down a decent job. 
". 
 (trying to break it gently) Vincent, you have to be realistic.  A heart condition like yours-- 
 --I don't care.  I'll take the risk. 
 It's not just you they have to be concerned about.  Perhaps we could get you one of those new pacemakers.  They're not perfect but-- 
 (letting his frustration show) For God's sake, Vincent, don't you understand. The only way you'll see the inside of a space ship is if you're cleaning it! 
 JEROME (VO) My father was right.  It didn't matter how much I lied on my resum», my real C.V. was in my cells.  Why should anybody invest all that money to train me, when there are a thousand other applicants with a far cleaner profile?  Of course, it's illegal to discriminate - "genoism" it's called - but no one takes the laws seriously. 
 JEROME (VO) If you refuse to disclose, they can always take a sample from a doorhandle... 
 JEROME (VO) ...or a handshake... 
 JEROME (VO) ...even the saliva off your application form. 
 JEROME (VO) But for the most part we know who we are. And if all else fails, a legal drug test can just as easily become an illegal peek at your future in the company. 
 JEROME (VO) I didn't blame Anton for his free ride.  You can't blame someone for winning the lottery. 
 (cocky) You sure you want to do this? 
 JEROME (VO) It was the last time we swam together. Out into the open sea, like always, knowing each stroke towards the horizon was one we had to make back to the shore.  Like always, the unspoken contest. 
 Vincent, you damn fool!  You could have killed Anton with your ridiculous contest!  Why should he risk his life to save yours?!  When are you going to get it through your thick head--you can't compete with your brother!  Why try?! 
 Why didn't you say anything? 
 Why didn't you? (staring back at his father knowingly) It's okay.  It's the way they want it. 
 JEROME (VO) It confirmed everything in the minds of my parents - that they had taken the right course with my younger brother and the wrong course with me.  It would have been so much easier for everyone if I had slipped away that day.  I decided to grant them that wish. 
 JEROME (VO) Like many others in my situation, I moved around a lot in the next few years, getting work where I could.  I must have cleaned half the toilets in the state. 
 When you clean the glass, Vincent, don't clean it too well. 
 (confused) What do you mean? 
 (glancing to the Gattaca workers) You might get ideas. 
 But if the glass is clean, it'll be easier for you to see me when I'm on the other side of it. 
 Where's Earl? 
 He fell.  Lucky it was only the second floor. 
 JEROME (VO) Of course the best test score in the world wasn't going to get me in the front door unless I had the blood test to go with it. 
 What do you think? 
 (to Vincent) I thought I told you not to get any ideas. 
 (staring through his glasses) German, is that you? 
 JEROME (VO) For the genetically superior, success is easier to attain but is by no means guaranteed.  After all, there is no gene for fate.  And when, for one reason or another, a member of the elite falls on hard times, their genetic identity becomes a valued commodity for the unscrupulous. One man's loss is another man's gain. 
 I hope he's not just a body. 
 How do I square the accident? 
 (looking around for a likely candidate but finding none) Where is he? 
 (still not fully convinced) That's the hair color in his profile? 
 (touching his own dark strands) I'd have to bleach my hair. 
 (a thought occurs, addressing the paraplegic for the first time) How tall are you? 
 (deadpan) Four foot six. 
 Okay, how tall did you used to be? 
 (apathetic, still under the influence of whatever he's been smoking) Six one. 
 (to German, disappointed) He's too tall. 
 Even with lifts I'm never that tall. 
 JEROME (VO) I confess, at first I wondered if I had rescued a man who was already dead. 
 You okay, Jerome? 
 (ironically referring to their mutual immobility) Yeah.  You want to go dancing tonight? 
 What's wrong with it? 
 I think I'd better choose the menu.  After all, you're learning how to be me, I'm not learning how to be you. 
 (shrugs) Suit yourself. 
 (trying to be more diplomatic) Listen, I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful --I know you and that little broker--what do you call him? 
 German. 
 You're both going to a lot of trouble-- (trying to be tactful) Maybe you can con somebody into believing you're me to get your foot in the door--but once you're inside, you're on your own.  I'm sure you're sincere... (glancing to the space paraphenalia) ...but I was being groomed for something like this myself.  Even without the accident I don't think I would have made it.  My point is--how the hell do you expect to pull this off? 
 (shrugs and states it simply) I don't know exactly, Jerome. 
 (laughing) At least you're honest. (a thought occurs) Call me by my middle name--Eugene--If you're going to be Jerome, you may as well start getting used to it. 
 (guiltily closing the book) I have to know where you come from. 
 If anybody asks, tell them the truth-- your family disowns you.  You are a disappointment, Jerome. 
 (referring to Eugene's medal, impressed) What about this? 
 Wrong color.  It's silver. (tossing the bag of blood to Jerome) It's not easy living up to this. 
 (wheeling by, looking over Jerome's shoulder at the signature) It needs work. 
 (rueful) You had to be a right-hander. 
 Noone orders southpaws anymore. 
 JEROME (VO) Myopia is a dead giveaway - one of the earliest and most justifiable of the quality-of-life corrections.  Anybody with impaired vision is certain to be suffering from all the other deficiencies of a "nonadvantaged" birth. 
 (still grimacing, referring to the follicles) You really need that much? 
 More than that.  You'll get used to it. 
 (yanking out another hair) God, what wouldn't you do to leave the planet? 
 (inspecting a hair follicle) Leave?  Just a few million years ago every atom in this hair--in our bodies--was a part of a star. I don't see it as leaving.  I see it as going home. 
 (marvelling at Jerome's earnestness) God, you're serious, aren't you? 
 It's not too late to back out. 
 You don't know what a relief it is not to be me.  Are you sure you want the job? 
 What about you?  What's in this for you, Eugene? 
 (referring to the bladder bag he wears) Listen, I bag this stuff anyway.  It may as well pay my rent. 
 (perplexed) What about the interview? 
 JEROME (VO) The majority of people are now made-to-order. What began as a means to rid society of inheritable diseases has become a way to design your offspring--the line between health and enhancement blurred forever.  Eyes can always be brighter, a voice purer, a mind sharper, a body stronger, a life longer.  Everyone seeks to give their child the best chance but the most skilled geneticists are only accessible to the priveleged few. 
 JEROME (VO) Anyone who is the product of an altered DNA is proudly referred to as a "DAN", "self-made man or woman", "man-child". 
 JEROME (VO) Those parents who, for moral or, more likely economic reasons, refrain from tampering with their offspring's genetic makeup or who fail to abort a deprived fetus condemn their children to a life of routine discrimination. 
 JEROME (VO) Officially they are called "In-Valids"*.  Also known as "godchildren", "men-of-god", "faith births", "blackjack births", "deficients", "defectives", "genojunk", "ge-gnomes", "the fucked-up people". 
 JEROME (VO) They are the "healthy ill".  They don't actually have anything yet - they may never. But since few of the pre-conditions can be cured or reversed, it is easier to treat them as if they were already sick. 
 JEROME (VO) By means of a donor I have cheated the system for the last four years to open doors that would otherwise be closed to me. 
 JEROME (VO) In the guise of Jerome Morror I have risen quickly through the ranks of Gattaca.  Only one of the Mission Directors has ever come close to discovering my true identity. 
 JEROME (VO) Strange to think, he may have more success exposing me in death than he did in life. 
 1 (staring at the Director's body) Awful. 
 2 Yeah, awful it didn't happen sooner. 
 You're lucky to be getting out of this. 
 We're still going ahead as planned? 
 The launch window is only open until week's end.  Tragic though this event may be, it hasn't stopped the planets turning. 
 You'll have to excuse me, Jerome.  I have to meet with the authorities--naturally, we're co-operating in any way, although I won't tolerate a major disruption. (as he departs) I wish I was going with you, Jerome. 
 ANNOUNCER (OC) Thank you for your co-operation.  Please return to your work stations immediately. 
 3 (sarcastic aside) What, no counselling? 
 Excuse me, Jerome.  I'm sorry to bother you. 
 No bother. 
 (referring to her notepad) I've been asked to compile a log for the investigators--they want to know everyone's whereabouts last night. 
 Last night?  I was at home. 
 Can that be, er, verified?  Were you alone? 
 No it can't be verified.  Yes I was alone. 
 (wry smile) Looks bad, doesn't it, Irene?  What about you?  Where were you last night? 
 I was at home. 
 Were you alone? 
 (hesitant) Yes. 
 (teasing) So we don't know for sure about you, either. 
 (wary, wondering where the conversation is headed) No. 
 Why don't we say we were together? 
 (confused) Why would we do that? 
 I have better things to do this week than answer the foolish questions of some flatfoot. Don't you? 
 (gently pressing) Well, shall we say we spent the evening together? 
 To be convincing, Jerome, I would have to know what that was like. 
 You didn't forget the truffles? 
 (sensing something amiss, trying to keep his humor) Who died? 
 The Mission Director. 
 (misinterpreting the deadpan remark) You wish. 
 They found him in his office this morning-- beaten so bad they had to check his nametag. 
 What an act of benevolence--a service to the community.  So that's it.  Now there's nothing between you and ignition. 
 He was still warm when they confirmed. 
 (confused by Jerome's attitude) This calls for a celebration.  Doesn't it? 
 The place is crawling with Hoovers. 
 So what?  You didn't kill him, did you? 
 That's not the point. 
 (scoffing) Hey, how much of you can be there?  Even if the "J. Edgars" do find something, in a week-- (glancing up to the night sky) you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction. (gently chiding) Come on, we've got to get drunk immediately. 
 (still tempering Eugene's enthusiasm) You're going to have to earn your supper.  I've got my final physical tomorrow. 
 (confused) Me? 
 (proudly) I kissed him five minutes ago.  A real good one. 
 Good evening, gentlemen.  Your table is ready. (referring to Jerome's mission) Not long now, sir.  You'll be upstairs before you know it.  We're going to miss you. 
 Not as much as I'll miss your Stroganoff. I'd like to take one of your chefs with me. 
 (aghast at the sight of his lifeless legs) I'm so sorry.  Did I hurt you? 
 (smiling, a trace of bitterness) Honey, if you'd hurt me, I'd be cured. 
 You want to meet a real-life spaceman? 
 Let's get out of here. 
 (knocking back his drink, misinterpreting the hasty departure) You're right, there's more atmosphere where you're going. 
 You drive. 
 (screaming in both fear and exhilaration) I gotta stop!!  I gotta stop!! 
 Keep going!!  Keep going!! 
 (gently chiding Jerome over the joyride) You idiot.  You could ruin everything with a stunt like that. 
 (gazing up into the night sky) At least up there your piss will be worth something. (smiling at the thought) You'll all be showering in it, right? 
 (zipping his fly) And drinking it.  It's like Evian by the time it's filtered. 
 (referring to the rocket ship) What is that one? 
 (looking at his watch) 11.15 to the port.  A maintenance crew. 
 How long do you stay up there before you go? 
 A day or so. 
 (beaming) I still can't believe they're sending you to the Belt--you of all people--never meant to be born, on a mission to discover the origin of life. 
 You should be going instead of me. 
 Up there they wouldn't be a problem. 
 (glancing heavenwards, shaking his head) You know I'm scared of heights. 
 (to the tongue, as he inserts the tip of the swab into an analyzer) Let's see what you've got to say for yourself. 
 The tongue is male.  Mature.  Blonse hair. Brown eyes.  Light complexion.  Between 5'11 and 6'1.  Pronounced Caucasian nose. Thin lips.  Weak chin.  Lobeless ears. Prematurely balding.  Slightly bow-legged. Broad shoulders.  Barrel chest... (pause) Blind. 
 (interest piqued) Blind? (mildly amused, checking the monitor for himself) The tongue is blind? 
 (confused) Who cuts out the tongue of a blind man? 
 (shrugs) Someone who is mindful that the blind still speak. 
 (sarcastically referring to the pool of vomit) I'm sorry.  Did you want it? 
 Let me get it for you. 
 (maudlin, sobbing like a child) I'm sorry.  I'm sorry. 
 (attempting to comfort) It's okay, Eugene. 
 You know I wasn't drunk--I knew what I was doing when I walked in front of that car-- 
 --What car?--Go to sleep. 
 --I walked right in front of it.  I was never more sober in my life. 
 It's all right. 
 (grabbing Jerome by the collar) I'm proud of you, Vincent. 
 (smiling to himself) You must be drunk to call me Vincent. 
 I don't understand why you were dragged out here, Sir.  It's hardly worth wasting your time--a no-nothing case like this. 
 (gently rebuking his subordinate) A man's dead, Detective. 
 Of course, Sir.  We're checking the entry log, alibis, grudges... 
 Grudges? 
 (looking out over the balcony) I look around, I see a lot of dry eyes. The Director was not... (searching for the words) ...universally loved.  He was leading the cut-backs in the program.  You're looking at a room full of motives. 
 (shaking his head adamantly, referring to the bag in his hand) No, this is your man. 
 (not so convinced) With respect, Sir--it may be the only unaccountable specimen but the profile suggests-- 
 --What about his profile? 
 According to this, he's a sick man.  Congenital heart condition.  Who knows how long the specimen has been here but there's an 80 percent chance the owner of that eyelash has already died himself from natural causes. 
 (terse) So there's a 20 percent chance he's not dead. 
 Even if this Vincent Luca is alive, is it likely he could bludgeon a man to death? 
 No.  Not likely. 
 I take it you're thinking along the lines of a robbery gone sour--a thief disturbed in the act? 
 (skeptical) Of course that doesn't jibe with what we found.  This was an angry killing. 
 (glancing to the profile in Hugo's hand) Who knows with these "deficients"?  His profile indicates a proclivity for violence. 
 (trying to appear co-operative) I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections-- 
 --I've already run it.  There's no record of any living relative. 
 What a pity. 
 (irritated, glancing to the sample bag) Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and found.  All we have to do is locate the man who's minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself. 
 Napoleon, you're late for your substance test. 
 Director, Napoleon's helping me today. 
 Well, you take it for him, Jerome. 
 Why did you do that? 
 (exiting to the testing lab) Don't worry about it. 
 You're excused, Irene.  You may resume your duties. 
 (marveling at Jerome's heartrate) Six miles later it's still beating like a Goddamn metronome.  I could play piano by that heartbeat of his. 
 Director Josef, this is our lead Investigator. 
 How often do you test, Director? 
 Often. 
 (intrigued) Surely you know what you have. 
 We have to be certain.  Once they're up, we can hardly turn the boat around. 
 (still marveling at Jerome) I swear if I went to lunch and came back, he'd still be there. 
 We believe we have a suspect. 
 What a relief. 
 (referring to the profile of VINCENT on Hugo's computer notepad) This unaccountable specimen was found in the south wing corridor. 
 An age enhancement is being prepared as we speak. 
 (referring to his assistant) Irene will make it available to security. 
 I'll take care of that for you, Mr Morrow. 
 (eyes fixed on the view) We were looking at each other.  You stopped. 
 I'm sorry.  I didn't mean anything. 
 (shrugging as if it makes no difference to him) We were just looking. 
 I know about you. 
 (offering the hair to Jerome) Here, take it. 
 (a challenge) If you're still interested, let me know. 
 (never taking his eyes from her) Sorry, the wind caught it. 
 (as if making conversation) Have they found our friend? 
 Friend? 
 (shrugs) It was a mercy-killing after all. 
 They found an eyelash. 
 Where? 
 In the South Wing. 
 Does it have a name? 
 Just some In-Valid.  Vincent-- (trying to come up with the last name) --somebody. 
 Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene. 
 (a smile playing around her lips) You celebrate, Jerome? 
 (into phone) --I know what I ordered.  I ordered "Honey Dawn" and you sent me "Summer Wheat". 
 JEROME (OC) Call German. 
 Any particular reason? 
 (collecting up sample bags from the work bench) We can't stay here. 
 What are you talking about? 
 They think I offed the Director. 
 What makes them think that? 
 They found my eyelash. 
 (a flicker of anxiety) Where? 
 In a corridor. 
 (blas» once again) Could be worse.  They could have found it in your eye. 
 (resuming his collection of samples) Come on--we're taking off. 
 I'm not going anywhere.  Less than a week to go. Not on your life-- 
 --You don't understand, they'll make the connection, they'll hoover again.  We should cut our losses. 
 (angrily grabbing a tray from Jerome's hands) Where is your head, Jerome?  You're acting like a guilty man.  They won't marry the eyelash to you.  They won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years. 
 They'll recognize me. 
 (scoffing) How could they recognize you? (referring to the torn photo of 20-year-old Vincent on the wall) I don't recognize you.  Anyway, you don't have a choice.  You run, you may as well sign a confession, turn us both in right now.  No, we stick this out-- find out what we can but change nothing.  This is a minor inconvenience is all it is.  We've taken worse heat than this. (angry now) Jesus, if I'd known you were going to go belly up on me at the last fucking gasp, I wouldn't have bothered.  You can't quit on me now.  I've put too much into this. (returning the samples to the fridge) Besides, this stuff is mine.  I had other offers, you know.  I could have rented myself out to somebody with a spine.  You want me to wheel in there and finish the job myself? (meeting Jerome's gaze) We'll take off all right, from pad 18 just like we planned. 
 And keep your lashes on your lids where they belong.  How could you be so careless? 
 I'm sorry. (reluctant admission) I think I was crying. 
 Well save those tears. 
 You really had other offers? 
 (shrugs) I'm sure I could have. 
 Mind if I borrow a tie? 
 So it's not just the Hoovers who've got you rattled. 
 You're the one who said not to change anything. She's my ear to the investigation. 
 (skeptical) Is that all? 
 I've got enough on my mind without that. 
 If you say so. (referring to the ties in Jerome's hand) The stripe. 
 (agreeing with the selection) Good choice. 
 Not thirsty? (referring to the fridge) We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week. 
 I don't feel too good.  I think I'm still drunk from last night. 
 Never stopped you before. (regarding Eugene's head) And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure you wouldn't go bald. 
 If I were you I'd worry about myself. (nodding to Jerome's spectacles) Haven't you forgotten something? 
 (looking away) You got it, German. 
 (enthusiastic) Not our fish, but sometihng stuck in the net. 
 This is the age enhancement we're working with. 
 (referring to the line-up) As you requested, we've kept the parameters wider than usual. 
 We're in the wrong place.  We're wasting time. 
 This is the most likely location-- 
 --There's that word again.  I have a feeling This man doesn't play the odds, Detective.  Not exactly a slave to probability.  Is it "likely" that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for fifteen years--a brutal killer--is going to come to us now like a lamb? 
 (taken aback by the outburst) Is there something more we should know about this suspect, Sir?  I mean besides what's on his sheet. 
 Since going underground, traces of this In-Valid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies.  Do you need any more than that? 
 With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes.  Maybe he's just unlucky. 
 I don't like anybody this unlucky. (pause) Widen the sweep.  The West side.  Draw a five mile radius around Gattaca.  Hoover some of the classier establishments.  Random car stops. 
 We're already getting complaints about frivolous search. 
 This is a murder investigation.  The public should be happy to co-operate, to get this disease off the streets. 
 (catching his look of astonishment) You didn't know? 
 (trying hard to convince) Yes...yes... 
 (picking up a resentment, confused) You're angry-- 
 Why would I be angry?  It was beautiful. 
 Shit!  One of those Hoovers is back. 
 It's alright.  He's here to see me. 
 (to an unseen woman in the next room) Sonja, I can't see anyone else tonight. 
 I don't understand you, Investigator. 
 (teasing good-naturedly) You hunt us by day and fuck us by night.  Do you only get it up for In-valids? 
 Wouldn't you be happier with one of your made-to-order whores? 
 (gently stroking her hair) You are so beautiful, are you sure you weren't altered?  This is not the face, the body, of a Godchild.  How could something so lovely be a product of chance? 
 Is that what keeps you coming back? (meeting his gaze) Look at you.  Such angry, beautiful, perfect eyes. Do you ever wonder what they would see if they weren't quite so perfect?  They will never see what I see. 
 (a cruel edge to his voice) You have so much wrong with you, you'll be lucky to see next year. 
 Are you so much more alive, Investigator? 
 (parting her legs) I'm not paying you to talk. 
 (conspiratorial) Better not. (nodding in Irene's direction) Don't want to give you a contaminated specimen...if you get my meaning. 
 Thanks. (answering her unasked question) You never know where those swabs have been. 
 I want to show you something. 
 (calling back urgently from the other side, mindful of the light beginning to leak into the sky) Come on!  We'll miss it! 
 Come on.  We'll miss it. 
 What did I tell you? 
 I envy you, Jerome. 
 You'll be next. 
 I don't think so.  The only trip I'll make in space is around the sun-- (letting a handful of sand slip through her fingers) --on this satellite right here. 
 (blurting out what's really on her mind) --Listen, I don't want to waste your time and I really don't want you to waste mine. I don't know what you're after but I have a feeling I'm not it. 
 (enjoying his unease) It's here.  My heart. (adding quickly) I'm careful--weekly check-ups.  I'm on a drug maintenance program, blood thinners, diet-- (slowly removing his hand) I just want you to know what you'd be getting yourself into. 
 What exactly is wrong? 
 Nothing yet.  I'll start experiencing symptoms in my late-fifties. (matter-of-fact) But unless they come up with something between now and then, I won't live much past 67. 
 Of course I think about it every day. 
 (still not quite recovered from his surprise) Of course. 
 How was your evening? 
 Complicated.  I couldn't stop her apologizing. 
 (teasing) You are a catch.  No doubt she's worried that she would lower the standard of your offspring. Everybody wants to "breed up". (idly curious) What's wrong with her? 
 (trying to be blas») You know how it is with these altered births --somebody told her she's not going to live forever and she's been preparing to die ever since. 
 You're not thinking of telling her, are you? 
 Of course not.  But she's have to know eventually. 
 (adamant) She doesn't have to know.  She doesn't want to know. 
 A. 
 (chagrined) The skin flake was found in Michael's Restaurant. The employees are all accounted for. 
 A customer?  Does this Michael's cater to misfits? 
 (shifting the view of the map to include the Gattaca complex) No.  But one or two "borrowed ladders" have shown up there in the past. 
 We have to consider the possibility that he's playing somebody else's hand. 
 (taking a perverse pleasure in the slowly dawning revelation) Of course.  He's a "de-gene-erate". (glancing to a photo of the Gattaca crime scene) He works at Gattaca.  Why else would we find the eyelash near the washroom?  Nobody stops to take a leak during a murder. 
 (quickly covering himself) It's still possible the eyelash specimen came from a janitor, delivery man--it could have blown in through an open window. 
 (mind racing) He was afraid of being exposed.  That's why he did it. 
 (puzzled) It is hard to believe he could be one of their elite workers.  You've seen their security system.  They know who works there. (referring to 20-year-old Vincent's profile) Even if you ignore the man's expiration date, his profile suggests that he doesn't have the mathematical propensity let alone the stamina to pass their physicals. 
 Don't underestimate these imposters. 
 (skeptical, referring to a file of Gattaca employee ID photos) None of the ID photos match the enhancement. 
 (smiling to himself) A man can change his face--but blood is forever. Sample every employee within the parameters I gave you. (pause) Intravenous. 
 (immediately protesting) You know their workforce.  Two-thirds at least fall into the category.  We'll be closing down their operation for days. (seeking a compromise) At least go with a fingertip sample or urine. 
 (shaking his head) Blood.  From the vein. 
 Look like anybody to you? 
 Not to me. 
 Ugly sonofabitch though, isn't he? 
 --Somewhere in the dust of Gaspra is the key. (warming to his theme) Back to the beginning of the book--the life we became.  With the original building blocks who knows how far we can take "the godding". 
 (wry smile) Even someone as advanced as Jerome will be last year's model by the time we're done. 
 (smiling back) I wouldn't get your hopes up, Commander. 
 Excuse me, Mr Morrow.  The investigators have begun their testing. 
 This is so inconvenient, Irene.  They can make an exception for Jerome. 
 I'm afraid not. 
 I apologize, Jerome. 
 It's not yor fault, Director. (afterthought) If your predecessor were still around we may not be going to Gaspra at all. That's what I would call inconvenient. 
 (referring to the table lined with syringes) What's with the plungers, Lamar?  What are you doing, opening a blood bank? 
 (sarcastic) The gentlemen of law enforcement are concerned that my testing methods may have been compromised. 
 Damn!! 
 (grabbing a nearby wad of gauze) Jesus--I'm sorry, Jerome. 
 (unfazed, putting Lamar at his ease) You must be out of practise, Lamar. 
 (examining and removing the switched vial from the bent syringe) I've got enough here. 
 (regarding the squimish detective, as he holds the gauze to his arm) Need any more, you can always get it off his shoes. 
 So you didn't do it after all. 
 (joking darkly) I guess somebody beat me to it. 
 That's the last. 
 Something's not right. 
 (losing his patience) He's not here.  It's a blind alley. 
 (resolute) No, we've missed something.  We Hoover again. 
 We don't have the manpower. 
 Get it.  From outside, if you have to. 
 From what budget? 
 (angered by Hugo's excuses) I'll take it out of your damn pension if you question my authority one more time! 
 Would you care to look--in the telescope? 
 Thank you, no. 
 (still referring to the telescope) One look through there and you would know why I can't possibly allow you to disrupt operations any further. 
 (unfazed) You're so unconcerned that you have a killer in your midst. 
 Right now, your presence is creating more of a threat.  I don't think you have any concept of what we do here--how meticulous our preparations must be.  We are about to send twelve people through 140 million miles of blackness to rendezvous with an object the size of a house and the color of coal.  So it's rather critical to point them in the right direction. And we certainly don't need you looking over our shoulders.  Besides, I don't believe there is any evidence that the killer is amongst us.  I don't see too many other dead bodies littering the place. 
 (surveying the mostly empty facility) No, but since there aren't too many live ones tonight either, you won't mind us conducting one further sweep.  If he does not work here, then there should be no other trace of him. (to Hugo) I think you'd better get some people out of bed, Detective. (a thought occurs) In the meantime we can re-check his favorite haunt. 
 (to Josef, referring to the telescope) You see, Director, I prefer my microscope. 
 Where are we going? 
 (slightly guilty) I'm sorry.  I've got plans. 
 (feigning hurt) Again? 
 (referring to his bandage) She's already got her doubts.  I have to act like nothing's wrong. 
 I'm sure you'll be very convincing. 
 Where are you taking her? 
 Michael's. 
 Everybody goes there. 
 (incredulous, glancing around the room) You may as well invite her here. 
 (afterthought as he picks up his jacket) Will you be okay? 
 Don't worry about your little pin cushion. To be honest, I'm looking forward to having the place to myself. 
 (seeing through the bravado) We'll still be able to talk when I'm away. The conversation will just keep getting longer. 
 How long? 
 By the time I'm at the Belt, you phone and say, "How are you?"  Forty-five minutes later I reply, "Not bad.  How are you?" 
 I guess I'd better have something important to say if it takes that long to get an answer. 
 What is this place? 
 (wry smile, enjoying her fascination) You've never been here? (a dessert trolley is wheeled up) Let me order for you. 
 I'd better not. 
 So sure of what you can't do.  Do you even know what it tastes like, Irene? 
 Take the side door. 
 (to his colleagues) Check for lenses, hairpieces-- 
 Why are we leaving? 
 (attempting to explain the hasty exit) Those checks take forever. 
 (stunned) Jerome! 
 What about the car? 
 (grabbing her by the hand) Let's walk. 
 Who are they? 
 (holding his bruised knuckles) It's not safe.  I shouldn't have brought you here. 
 I can't. 
 (anxious) Come on. 
 My medication.  I left it back there. 
 We'll get it later. (forcing her to look him in the eye) Irene, please. 
 (an accusing tone) You run a clean establishment. 
 Are you a health inspector? 
 (showing Vincent's mugshot) Do you recognize this man? 
 My eyes aren't so good. 
 I bet. 
 Sir. 
 (to the still dazed Detective, examining his injuries) Did he hit you with his fist? 
 (head in his hands) More like a hammer. 
 (reprimanding the beaten Detective) Don't touch your face.  Don't swallow. Don't spit. (to Hugo) Quick, clean his teeth. 
 (upset, a strangled protest) Are you trying to kill me?  Are you?! Don't you understand, I can't do that! 
 You just did. 
 INVESTIGATOR (OC) Vincent!  Vincent! 
 (to Hugo, covering his frustration) What are you waiting for? 
 Where do we start? 
 We'll vacuum these streets if we have to. 
 (handing the Investigator Irene's pill box) We caught them trying to flush these, Sir. 
 So sure of what you can't do. 
 (referring to the shins) What happened? 
 You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. (shrugs) Looked right instead of left. 
 (comforted by the thought) So you're not so smart after all. (awkward about raising the subject) I want you to know--if it ever came to it-- I'd be willing to get an ovum from the Egg Bank.  In fact, I'd rather use a donor egg-- (quickly covering herself again) --if it came to it. 
 But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your-- (searching for an appropriate body part) --nose. (stroking her face) How perfect does your child have to be? 
 (mildly irritated by what she perceives as his mocking) You hypocrite.  Do you think for one moment you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't for who you are--what you are?  Don't you get any satisfaction knowing that your children will be able to live to a ripe old age unless they do something foolish? 
 That's precisely what scaresme--that they won't do anything foolish or courageous or anything--worth a Goddamn. 
 (reading newspaper) My wife and I--we're thinking of starting a family. 
 (shrugs, ambivalent) Why not? 
 These new personality corrections I've been reading about. 
 You worried about the cost? 
 Not that. 
 (regarding Hugo with a condescending smile) They said the same thing about myopia and obesity.  You think your children would be less human if they were less violent, angry, spiteful?  Maybe they'd be more human.  From where I sit the world could stand a little improving. 
 Don't touch that.  It's evidence. 
 Positive saliva match.  The cup was definitely used since the original sweep. 
 So we have two choices.  Either our suspect came back to the murder scene for a drink of water and I don't know anybody that thirsty or... (looking out over the empty complex) ...he is here. (resolute) We test again.  You're right, Hugo, this was a desperate act.  Someone had a lot to lose that night--perhaps their place in line. (to Director Josef) I'd like the profiles of everyone with an upcoming mission. 
 (nervous) Twelve have a mission within the week. 
 This time I will supervise each test personally. 
 What is it? 
 I forgot something--something at home. I'll see you later. 
 I'll miss you. 
 (looking skywards) --when you go away. 
 We could go together one day. 
 He's the only absentee. 
 A little nausea.  Quite common. 
 At least it's nothing contagious. 
 (unduly agitated) I will not permit any further testing on the eve of a mission.  We're already counting backwards. 
 (picking up a phone) I'll call and let him know. 
 Let's not spoil the surprise. (to Irene) I understand you can show us the way. 
 Hello? 
 JEROME (OC) How would you like to be yourself for the day? 
 (nonchalant) I was never very good at it, remember? 
 (taunting) You don't know who he is, do you, Irene? 
 You think you have problems? 
. 
 EUGENE (OC) (through intercom, no trace of his distress) Hello. 
 (a moment's hesitation) Jerome--? 
 Hello, sweatheart.  Come on up. 
 Where's my kiss? 
 Good to see you're feeling better. 
 Now you're here.  Who are your "friends"? 
 It's about the Director. 
 (feigning boredom) Again? 
 Forgive me for not getting up. 
 (to the Investigator) Couldn't we do this another time? 
 I don't believe so. 
 This won't take a moment. 
 (reassuring to Irene, referring to the blood flowing into the syringe) It's okay.  Maybe they can find out what I've got. 
 Mind if I take a leak? 
 As long as you don't do it in my closet. (nodding to the other side of the room) Over there. 
 (to Eugene, referring to ther mini-vac) May I? 
 Clean the whole house if you want. 
 (taking Eugene's lead) Actually, the kitchen needs doing. 
 (urgent, to Investigator) Come quickly.  We have him. 
 (numb) How are you, Jerome? 
 Not bad, Jerome. 
 How the hell did you get here. 
 (deadpan) I could always walk.  I've been faking it. 
 (calling after her) Irene. 
 (gazing at the Director, struggling to come to grips with the turn of events) This can't be him. 
 (intrigued) We found his spit in the dead director's eye. He's signed a confession--supplied us with the suit he wore on the night.  What more do you want? 
 (a trace of desperation, grasping at straws) Luca could still be an accomplice. 
 --Finally, I'd like to welcome Navigator Morrow on his debut mission--if we get lost out there, nobody has a map of the heavens in his head like Jerome. 
 (adopting a more serious tone) I'm gratified that there is no longer a cloud hanging over tomorrow's launch.  Now we can put this unpleasantness behind us and concentrate on the task at hand.  I don't have to tell you how important this mission is--the Belt could hold the key to the origin of life - why we are what we are. (injecting a note of levity) I know many of you have been asking that question about me for long enough. (referring to a projected photograph of a misshapen asteroid behind his head) Gaspra--how could something so ugly hold so many beautiful secrets? 
 Enjoy your final evening with your families. We'll all be a year older when they see us next.  And don't be late tomorrow.  You don't want to miss this. 
 (excited) Hugo!  I've found him! 
 I've found him too. 
 (not listening, referring to his discovery) A fingerprint.  There's something to be said for nostalgia. (realizing what Hugo has said) What did you find? 
 It's not exactly him. 
 (interest piqued) Where did you get this? 
 (referring to the tissue) But this man does share some common characteristics with your suspect.  Not so many but enough.  It appears the eyelash has a brother--of a kind. 
 So you've finally seen sense and come back to your old job, Vincent. 
 Not yet, I'm afraid. 
 No?  What's keeping you? 
 I guess I'm a slow learner. 
 I guess so. (looking up through the small window) Well, while you're up there, maybe you could tidy the place up a bit. 
 I'll see what I can do. 
 And don't go getting everybody lost out there. You'll give us a bad name.  You won't have me to keep an eye on you, you know. 
 (glancing to Caesar's locker) By the way, I left some trash in your locker. 
 (happy to oblige) I'll take care of it. 
 Vincent-- 
 Vincent, what are you running from? 
 (disturbingly calm) From Vincent. 
 Has it been so long, you don't remember who I am? 
 (nodding to the Investigator's badge) Maybe it's you who's forgotten. (meeting his gaze) What are you doing here, Anton? 
 I could ask you the same question. (glancing to the impressive complex) I have a right to be here, you don't. 
 You almost sound like you believe that. 
 (ignoring the remark, extending his hand) Come with me now, Vincent.  You've gone as far as you can go. 
 (refusing Anton's hand, glancing to the telescope above them) There are a few million miles to go yet. 
 (adamant) It's over. 
 (shaking his head) Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, to see me fail? 
 It's for the best. 
 (increasingly angered) God, even you want to tell me what I can't do. In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't need rescuing.  But you did, once. 
 (goading) Well?  You have all the answers.  How is that possible? 
 (resolute) You didn't beat me that day.  I beat myself. 
 Who are you trying to convince? 
 (angry) I will prove it to you.  Come swim with me now, Vincent.  Now--tonight. 
 Hello. 
 EUGENE (OC) Quite something, isn't it? 
 (referring to the incinerator) That's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded. 
 I've been looking for him.  Do you know where he is? 
 (unconcerned) He's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes. 
 Don't be deceived, Irene.  These are just the clothes.  He has to wear them. Something I could never do. 
 What's wrong with him? 
 (sympathetic smile) You have more in common than you know. 
 But they say hisis already ten thousand beats overdue.  I have my doubts. (wry smile) For all my gifts, they could never engineer me a heart like Vincent's. 
 (attempting to conceal his distress) How are you doing this, Vincent?  How have you done any of this? 
 Now is your chance to find out. 
 (panic starting to show) Vincent, where's the shore?  We're too far out. We have to go back! 
 (calling back) Too late for that.  We're closer to the other side. 
 What other side?  How far do you want to go?! Do you want to drown us both? (becoming hysterical) How are we going to get back?! 
 (eerily calm) You wanted to know how I did it.  That's how I did it, Anton.  I never saved anything for the swim back. 
 (wry smile, offering the hair to Irene) Here, take it. 
 (echoing Irene's words from their first encounter) If you're still interested, let me know. 
 (never taking her eyes from him, echoing Jerome's words from their first encounter) Sorry, the wind caught it. 
 (awakening) A year is a long time. 
 Not so long--just once around the sun. 
 I have your samples ready. 
 (confused) Have you forgotten?  I don't need any samples where I'm going. 
 (meeting Jerome's gaze) No, but you might need them when you get back. 
 Everything you need to last you two lifetimes. 
 There's an extra specimen.  I wish I could give it to her myself. (afterthought) But then, you always were better at being me. 
 (struggling to come to terms with the discovery) Why have you done this? 
 (as he seals the mirrored door) In case you get back before I do. 
 Where are you going? 
 (glancing to the suitcases) I'm travelling too. 
 Thank you. 
 I got the better end of the deal.  I just lent you my body--you lent me your dream. 
 (referring to the note, glancing heavenwards) Not until you're upstairs. 
. 
 (as he takes the plastic cup from Lamar) What's this, Lamar? 
 New policy. 
 (intrigued by the out-of-character discharge) Flight got you nervous? 
 There's a problem, Lamar. 
 (apparently not listening) Did I ever tell you about my son, Jerome?  He's a big fan of yours.  He wants to apply here. 
 (as he urinates) Just remember, Lamar, I could have gone up and back and nobody would have been the wiser-- 
 (cutting him off) --Unfortunately my son's not all that they promised.  But then, who know what he could do. 
 For future reference-- (a brief glance to where Jerome has just zipped his fly) --righthanded men don't hold it with their left.  It's just one of those things. 
 (knowing smile) Have a safe trip, Vincent. 
 JEROME (VO) We came from the stars so they say, now it's time to go back.  If I was conceived today, I would not get beyond eight cells, and yet here I am.  In a way they were right, I don't have the heart for this world. (pause) The question is, why am I having so much trouble dying? 
 A 
 Blind from birth 
 Epileptic 
 Arthritic 
 Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (Lou Gerhig's Disease) 
 Alzheimer's Disease 
 Blind and deaf 
 Lou Gerhig's Disease 
 
