 Corso: Yup. Balkan: You're privileged, Corso. Very few people have ever set foot in here. This is my private collection. Some bibliophiles specialize in Gothic novels, others in Books of Hours. All my own rare editions have the same protagonist: the Devil. Corso: (impressed but does his best not to show it) May I take a look? Balkan: That's why I brought you here. (Balkan goes over to the 'monolith' and punches a keyboard on a control panel, gestures to Corso to come closer. Corso puts out his hand. Before he can touch the glass, it glides aside with a faint hum. He fixes his glasses and glances at Balkan, who looks on calmly. His eyes roam along the spines of the books. Balkan comes and stands beside him.) Beautiful, aren't they? That soft sheen, that superb gilding... Not to mention the centuries of wisdom they contain - centuries of erudition, of delving into the secrets of the Universe and the hearts of men. I know people who would kill for a collection like this. (Corso shoots him a quick glance) The Ars Diavoli! You'll never see as many books on the subject anywhere else in the world. They're the rarest, the choicest editions in existence. It has taken me a lifetime to assemble them. Only the supreme masterpiece was missing. Come. 
 Balkan: One. Corso: The catalogs list three copies surviving in private ownership: the Fargas, the Kessler, and the Telfer. Balkan: True. You've done your homework, but you're wrong nonetheless. According to all the sources I myself have consulted, only one is authentic. The author confessed under torture that he'd hidden one copy. Only one. Corso: Well, three are known. Balkan: That's the trouble. Corso: (resumes his inspection of the book) Where did you get it? Balkan: I bought it from Telfer. Corso: (surprised) Telfer? Balkan: (looking out the window): Yes, he finally sold it to me. The day before he killed himself. Corso: Good timing. Balkan: (ignores this. Corso turns the pages with care. He lingers over an engraving of a knight in armor riding toward a castle with a finger to his lips as though enjoining the reader to silence. Below it is a caption. Balkan draws closer and reads over Corso's shoulder) Nemo pervenit qui non legitime certaverit. Corso: You only succeed if you fight by the rules? Balkan: More or less. Ever heard of the 'Delomelanicon'? Corso: Heard of it, yes. A myth, isn't it? Some horrific book reputed to have been written by Satan himself. Balkan: No myth. That book existed. Torchia actually acquired it. (he returns to the window overlooking the sheer drop. Gazing down, he goes on) The engravings you're now admiring were adapted by Torchia from the 'Delomelanicon'. They're a form of satanic riddle. Correctly interpreted with the aid of the original text and sufficient inside information, they're reputed to conjure up the Prince of Darkness in person. Corso: You don't say. (he continues to turn the pages) Balkan: Are you a religious man, Corso? I mean, do you believe in the supernatural? Corso: I believe in my percentage. I also believe that books grow old and decay like the rest of us. Don't you get dizzy, standing there? (Balkan continues to stare down at the city) What the hell do you want from me, Balkan? Balkan: (leaves the window and confronts him) I want you to go to Europe and play the detective. The other two copies are in Portugal and France. You must find some way of comparing them with mine: every page, every engraving, the binding - everything. I'm convinced that only one can be authentic, and I want to know which one it is. Corso: Could be an expensive trip. Balkan: (takes a folded check from his pocket and hands it to Corso, who slips it into his breast pocket unexamined) That's to get you started. Spend what you need. Corso: What if I find your copy's a forgery? Balkan: (stares at him coldly) It's quite on the cards. Corso: (seeming mildly surprised. He looks at the book again, 'listens' to the quality of the paper by putting his ear to the pages and riffling them with his thumb) Really? It doesn't appear to be. Even the paper sounds kosher. Balkan: Even so. There may be something wrong with it. Corso: (continues to examine the book. He smiles)You mean the Devil won't show up? (shuts the book and replaces it on the lectern) Balkan: Don't be flippant. (quotes) 'There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy.' Corso: Hamlet believed in ghosts, not demons. Balkan: If all three copies turn out to be bogus or incomplete, your work will be done. If one of them proves to be genuine, on the other hand, I'll finance you further. (Corso stares at him, then unfolds the check and glances at the amount - a substantial sum, from the way he raises his eyebrows) I shall want you to get it for me at all costs, never mind how. Corso: Never mind how sounds illegal. Balkan: It wouldn't be the first time you've done something illegal. Corso: Not that illegal. Balkan: Hence the size of the check. Do a good job, and I'll double it. (He picks up 'The Nine Gates' and holds it out. After a moment's hesitation, Corso replaces the check in his pocket and takes the book) Be careful, Corso. Corso: What do you mean? (indicates the book) With this? Balkan: Just be careful. 
 Corso: Absolutely. Liana: A Black Mass, you mean? Corso: More or less. An attempt to conjure up the Devil. Liana: Andrew was a trifle eccentric, Mr. Corso, but he wasn't insane. It's true he'd been acting strangely those last few days. He shut himself up in here - seldom emerged except for meals. (She draws a deep breath, glances at the chandelier) That morning I was woken by the screams of the maid: he'd hanged himself. (pauses, looks at him) Whatever he was up to, I certainly can't see him chanting mumbo-jumbo or trying to raise the dead. 
 Corso: Bernie? 
 Corso: She? Pablo: (without looking up): Senora Telfer. 
: ...interested. Pedro: (finished examining the text. He looks at the spine) A superb specimen. Corso: (hesitates briefly): Could it be a forgery? Pedro: (suspiciously, almost indignantly) A forgery? (turns to) You heard that,?: (wags his finger reprovingly in Corso's face) I took you for a professional, senor. You speak too lightly of forgeries. Pedro: Far too lightly.: Forging a book is expensive. Paper of the period, the right inks.... (makes a dismissive gesture) Too expensive to be profitable. 
 Corso: Collaborator? Pedro: (shrugs, Pablo refocuses on Corso) You cannot have proceeded very far with your research. Come, look closely. 
 Pedro: Think. 
 Corso: Lucifer? Pedro: (he and Pablo chuckle heartily) You're a clever man, senor. Torchia was not alone when they burned him alive. Corso: But that's absurd! You don't honestly believe... Pedro: The man who wrote this did so in alliance with the Devil and went to the stake for it. Even Hell has its heroes, senor. 
 Girl: Guess. Corso: (shrugs, smiles): Greeneyes. Girl: That'll do. What's yours? 
 Corso: Corso. Girl: Strange name. Corso: Italian. it means 'I run'. Girl: You don't look like a runner to me - more the quiet type. 
 Fargas: Yes? Corso: Dean Corso, Mr. Fargas. (Puts out his hand) How do you do. Fargas: (hesitates before shaking hands.) Corso, ah yes. Please come in. 
 Girl: Reading. Corso: I can see that. Girl: And bumping into people unexpectedly. Corso: Unexpectedly is right. Girl: Are you on a business trip? (indicates his shoulder bag) Is that why you always carry that thing around? Corso: (doesn't answer, adjusts his glasses. He looks at the book she has. She hands it to him. We see the title: 'The Devil in Love' by Jacques Cazotte) You like Gothic novels? Girl: I like books. I never travel without one. Corso: Been traveling long? 
 Girl: Ages. Corso: (eyes her, intrigued) You said you were a student? Girl: Did I? (shrugs) So I am. In a way. Hotel Porter: (appears at Corsoís elbow) Excuse me, senor. Phone call. Corso: (surprised): For me? Are you sure? Hotel Porter: Si, senor. (he leaves.) Corso: (turns back to the girl) Well, sorry I disturbed you. (hands back the book and turns to go. Corso goes to the hotel phone and picks up the receiver with a puzzled frown) Yes? Balkan: (Voice Over) Mr. Corso? Corso: (startled): Balkan? How did you find me? Balkan: Made any progress? Corso: Progress? You could call it that. Balkan: Well? Corso: I've examined the Fargas copy. It's authentic. At least it looks that way. Like yours. But there are discrepancies. 
 Balkan: Discrepancies? Corso: In the engravings. Like keys in different hands, doorways open in one copy and bricked up in the other. Balkan: I see. Corso: And there's another thing. 
 Balkan: Yes? Corso: The ones that differ are ail signed 'LF'. Seems like some kind of riddle. ( A long pause) Are you still there? Where are you, anyway? Balkan: I think you'd better get it for me. Corso: The old man wouldn't sell it to save his life - he said as much. (Another long pause) Balkan? 
 Concierge: Monsieur? Corso: The Kessler Foundation. She jerks her head in the direction of an old-fashioned elevator like a gilded cage. 
 Girl: What? Corso: (aims a feeble kick in the air) That stuff. Girl: (casually): Oh, ages ago. Corso: No shit. 
 Waiter: Pardon? Corso: Madame, ou elle est? Waiter: Je ne sais pas, m'sieur. 
 Corso: Yes? Balkan: (Voice Over) Come down. I'm in the cafe across the street. 
 Balkan: Problems? Corso: Yeah, like someone tried to total me a couple times. Aside from that, three people have died on me since I took this job. (thinks for a moment) Well, two. Telfer was dead already. Balkan: I don't follow you. Corso: It's simple enough. You give me 'The Nine Gates' and they start dropping like flies. I'm thinking of giving it back. Balkan: Who are you talking about? Corso: My pal Bernie Feldman, for one. Balkan: The book dealer? He's dead? Corso: Murdered. He was holding your book for me. Someone was after it. He wouldn't give it to them. 
 Corso: Baroness? 
 Corso: Liana... Gruber: Which reminds me, sir: the lady and gentleman you mentioned - they're staying at the Hotel Crillon, Suite 236-238. Corso: Good for you, Gruber. Thanks a lot. Gruber: Always glad to be of service, Mr. Corso. Corso: I owe you one for those cops, too. Gruber: Ah yes, sir. Interpol. Corso: Interpol! What exactly did they want? Gruber: They expressed an interest in your whereabouts. Corso: And? What did you tell them? Gruber: That you were out. Corso: Anything else? Gruber: They asked if I knew whether you had recently visited Portugal. 
 Corso: And? Gruber: I said that our guests do not make a habit of providing us with their itineraries. Corso: (extracts a 500 franc bill from his billfold and slips it into Gruber's hand. Gruber acknowledges this with a gracious inclination of the head) For what it's worth, Gruber, I don't know what they think I've done, but I'm innocent. Gruber: (impassively): Naturally, Mr. Corso. All our guests are. 
 Corso: Damn! 
 Corso: Bastard! 
 Girl: Coming? 
 Girl: Look. 
 Girl: So? 
 Corso: Monsieur? Baker: (looks up, wipes his hands on his smock, and walks over to the window.) M'sieur? Corso: Nous cherchons la maison de Madame de Saint-Damien. Baker: Le chateau, vous voulez dire. Corso: (to the girl): Chateau! That's it - got to be. (to the baker) Ou il est, le chateau? Baker: (gestures): La route apräs ''Çgllse, m'sieur. 
 Corso: No. Girl: They aren't there. 
 Liana: You! Corso: Where is it? Liana: How dare you! Corso: That book isn't yours, Madame. 1 need it. Liana: Get out of here, both of you! 
 Balkan: Mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo!!! 
 Balkan: Mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo!!! 
 Waiter: Pardon? Corso: Madame, ou elle est? Waiter: Je ne ''ai pas vue, m'sieur. 
 Corso: Oiga! 
: ANOS?! 2nd Workman: Ingles? 
 Corso: Americana. 
