 (V.O.) God, she's beautiful. 
 (V.O.) She's got the prettiest eyes, and she looks so sexy in that sweater. 
 Hi, how are you? 
 (V.O.) I just want to be alone with her and hold her and kiss her... 
 (V.O.) ...and tell her how much I love her and take care of her.  Stop it, you idiot.  She's your wife's sister. But I can't help it. 
 (V.O.) I'm consumed by her.  It's been months now.  I dream about her.  I- I, I think about her at the office. Oh, Lee. (sighing) What am I gonna do? 
 (V.O.) I hear myself mooning over you, and it's disgusting.  Before, when she... 
 (V.O.) ...squeezed past me in the doorway, and I smelled that perfume on the back of her neck... 
 (V.O.) ...Jesus, I, I thought I was gonna swoon!  Easy... 
 (V.O.) You're a dignified financial advisor.  It doesn't look good for you to swoon. 
 (nibbling on an hors d'oeuvre) Elliot?  Elliot? (rubbing his shoulder) Sweetheart? 
 (turning to Hannah) Mm-hm? 
 (pointing to the tray) Have you tried these?  These are wonderful. (nibbling, swallowing) Holly and her friend made them. 
 (swallowing) They're fantastic. 
 (overlapping, still eating) Aren't they great? 
 Your sister is an unbelievable cook. 
 (swallowing) I know!  I know! 
 (walking offscreen) She has all the cooking talent. 
 (walking offscreen swallowing) No, she doesn't, either.  You've got tons as well. 
 (offscreen) Ohhh, but I've eaten five of these. 
 (offscreen, overlapping Holly) Holly, why don't you open your own restaurant? 
 (offscreen) What?  You're kidding! 
 Perfect! 
 (nodding) Great idea. 
 (agreeing) I know. 
 (overlapping Hannah) That's where your talent lies. 
 Oh, sure. 
 (calling after them as he nibbles on an hors d'oeuvre) I'm her husband!  She tells me anything! 
 (stirring some food in a saucepan on the stove) Mmm, I never get upset over that. Mmm? 
 Holly, please.  Don't insult me. 
 I know.  H-how much do you need? 
 (trying to nod her head casually) Uh-huh. 
 (nodding, back at the stove now, stirring in a pot) Yeah. 
 (looking at her sister) Will you just tell me one thing? 
 Are we talking about cocaine again? 
 EVAN & NORMA (singing) "A whimpering, simpering Child again Bewitched, bothered, and bewildered Am I..." 
 Mom and Dad are floating down memory lane again! 
 (smiling and turning to Lee) Aah... Hey, have you tried Holly and her friend's shrimp puffs? 
 (nodding to Holly, touching her arm) I think they're fantastic. 
 (to Holly) You've outdone yourself. 
 (interrupting, to Hannah) I need an antihistamine.  Mom thinks she's feeling her asthma, and so... 
 (overlapping) Ohh? 
 (continuing) ...before she starts turning into Camille... (laughing) 
 (turning to Holly) At least she isn't drinking.  Did you notice? 
 (turning to look at her sisters, laughing) Doesn't she look great in that new dress? 
 (nodding) Yeah. 
 Don't you think she does? 
 (turning towards the sink) Yeah, she knows it, too, 'cause she's flirting with all the men here. 
 (scooping out some cantaloupe seeds) Maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around. 
 (laughing) Yeah. 
 (laughing, to Hannah) Where are the antihistamines? 
 Oh, I don-- Ask Elliot for that. Uh, he's got them somewhere. 
 (nodding) Okay. 
 (turning to Holly, still working at the sink) When does Frederick ever come with her? 
 EVAN & NORMA (singing) "A pill he is But still he is All mine and I'll Keep him until he is Bewitched, a'both--" 
 (to the children) Watch out, you guys.  Beep-beep! 
 (walking through the doorway) Bye!  Bye! 
 (setting down the turkey on the opposite end of the table) Oh, gosh.  Well, you know, that's why I invited Phil Gammage tonight. 
 (overlapping) It's, uh, you never know-- 
 He's not a loser at all! 
 (overlapping, lighting a set of candles on the table) He's the headmaster of Daisy's school. 
 (laughing) Listen.  He's a lot better than your ex-husband.  He's got a good job. (handing a pack of matches to Holly) Would you light those, please? He's-he's-he's not a dope addict or anything. 
 (offscreen) Am I interrupting... 
 (continuing) ...any sister talk? 
 (offscreen) Mm-mm! 
 Oh, good... 
 (overlapping, still offscreen) Come in, come in. 
 (gesturing) ...because there are no interesting single men at this party! 
 (now onscreen) Oh, listen... 
 (shaking her head) I mean, I've looked everywhere. 
 (picking at the turkey and gesturing) Maybe April would like Phil.  Phil Gammage, the tall guy in there by the piano. 
 (pointing to herself) Hm-mm.  Oh, yeah.  I met Phil. 
 (looking at April, nodding) Mmm? 
 He's the--He looks like Ichabod Crane? 
 (laughing with the sisters, gesturing) I love that.  That's my type. 
 (shaking her head, laughing) I can't believe it! 
 (nodding and looking at Hannah) No, really, I really like him a lot. 
 (overlapping) Mmm. 
 (overlapping, to April, who has just set down her apples) Here.  Be careful with those. 
 (turning to her sister in surprise) Oh! 
 (searching) Must be here someplace. 
 (offscreen) Oh, you know, I, I love that book you lent me.  The Easter Parade? You were right.  It had very special meaning for me. 
 How's Frederick?  He didn't come. 
 (offscreen) Oh, well, you know Frederick.  One of his moods.  Although it wasn't a bad week.  He (onscreen) uh, sold a picture. 
 (offscreen) Oh, great. 
 Yeah, it was, it was one of his better drawings, a very beautiful nude study.  Actually, it was of me. (laughing) It's funny, you know, it's a funny feeling to know you're being hung naked in some stranger's living room. 
 Well, you can't tell it's me, although-- (pausing) You're turning all red, Elliot. 
 (laughing self-consciously) Really?  So, so, what else?  Wh- what are you up to? 
 (offscreen) Oh, I don't know.  My unemployment checks are running out.  Um, I was thinking of taking some courses at Columbia with the last of my savings. 
 Like, uh...? 
 (offscreen) I don't know exactly. 
 Uh, sociology, psychology maybe.  I always thought I might like to work with children. 
 (gesturing with the bottle of pills gripped in his hand) Incidentally, I-I always have clients who are furnishing places. Some of them might-might be interested in buying art.  Shall I, shall I call you? (chuckling self-consciously) 
 Yeah, sure. (taking the bottle of pills Elliot hands her) You know, uh, Frederick would really by grateful for a sale. 
 (offscreen) Hey, you guys? 
 (offscreen) Dinner's ready. 
 (offscreen) Oh, great. 
 (overlapping) You look so beautiful. 
 (offscreen) Come on. 
 (standing by Elliot and Lee) Doesn't she look pretty? 
 I bumped into your... 
 (overlapping, agreeing with Hannah) Yeah. 
 (continuing) ...ex-husband on the street the other day. 
 (biting her carrot) Oh, yeah? 
 (gesturing) He was, he's just as crazy as ever. He was on his way to get a blood test. (laughing, Elliot joining in) 
 (reacting) God, Mickey's such a hypochondriac. I wonder how he'd handle it if there was ever anything really wrong with him? 
 (standing up) Let's go have dinner, shall we? 
 (overlapping) Mmm. 
 (standing up, overlapping) Good idea. 
 (clanking a piece of silverware against his water glass) Now, ladies and gentlemen... 
 (reacting, to Holly) Oh... 
 (still clanking) No, now... 
 (clanking away) ...this is a toast!  This is a toast. 
 (reaching across the table for Evan's wine glass, laughing) Get his wine away. 
 This is a toast.  You know this beautiful Thanksgiving dinner was all... 
 ...prepared...by Hannah. 
 (modestly pointing to the maid) Uh, and a little help... 
 (to her daughters) Hey! 
 (continuing) ...from Mavis, also. 
 (hugging Hannah) You bet. 
 (overlapping, looking down the table while still in Elliot's embrace) Holly and April, thanks for helping. 
 (overlapping the noise) No, you did it. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) I am... I did slave all day. 
 (overlapping, holding out his wine glass) And we drink to her, and we all congratulate her on her wonderful accomplishment during this last year...her great success in A Doll's House! 
 (overlapping, laughing) Ya-a-a-a-y! (laughing) I played Nora.  I hate to tell you what year... 
 (continuing) And it's very difficult to behave like Torvald's little chipmunk without making a perfect ass out of yourself! (pausing while the guests laugh heartily) Now I think that Ibsen would have been damn proud of our Hannah! 
 (overlapping the applause and clapping loudly) Speech!  Speech!  Speech! 
 (overlapping) Yea-a-a-a-ah! 
 (reacting) I don't know about that.  Oh, no, I just, see, I-I've been very, very lucky.  W-when I had the kids, I decided to stop working and just, you know, devote myself to having the family, and I've been very, very happy (banging her fists lightly on the table) but...I've always secretly hoped that maybe some little gem would come along and tempt me back on the stage... 
 (nodding) Yeah. 
 (overlapping) ...just for a second.  So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me happiest. 
 (chuckling) Oh, bravo!  Bravo! 
 (V.O.) Is it my imagination, or does Elliot have a little crush on me? (chuckling slightly) It's funny.  I've had that thought before.  He pays a lot of attention to me all the time, and he blushed tonight when we were alone in the bedroom.  I wonder if he and Hannah are happy?  It's funny, I...I still feel a little buzz from his flirting. 
 (to an offscreen Frederick) Want some coffee or tea? 
 (offscreen) No, thank you. 
 (stirring her coffee) How about something to eat? 
 No, nothing. 
 Are you sure? 
 Absolutely. 
 (walking around the screen to Frederick) Mmm, what am I gonna do with you? (laughing) 
 God! (sniffing) And why didn't you come tonight? We all had a terrific time.  I really think you would have enjoyed yourself. 
 (not looking at Lee) I'm going through a period of my life where I just can't be around people. (putting down the brushes and wiping his hands with the same rag) I didn't want to wind up abusing anyone. 
 You're not going to abuse them. They're all so sweet. 
 (taking off his glasses) Lee... (pausing, reaching for Lee's hand) you are the only person I can be with...who I really look forward to being with. (pulling Lee to him, around the board) 
 (compliantly) You're too harsh with everyone. You know that, don't you? 
 (looking into Lee's eyes) Isn't it enough that I can love you? 
 (sighing) Mmm... 
 Hmm? 
 (overlapping) ...you're such a puzzle. (chuckling) So sweet with me and so...contemptuous of everyone else. (sighing) 
 (sniffing) Well, there was a time (sniffing again) when you were very happy to be only with me.  You wanted to learn everything about poetry, about music. 
 (nodding) Mm-hm. 
 Have I really taught you everything I have to give? (shakes his head) I don't think so. 
 (turning her head in Frederick's direction) Oh, Elliot said he might have a couple of clients for you. 
 (offscreen) I'm sure all those morons he handles have a deep feeling for art. 
 (flipping through the book) Mmm (chuckling) you never know.  They might.  He's just trying to do the nice thing. 
 (offscreen) Because he likes you. 
 (looking up from the book) Me? 
 Yeah. 
 (looking at Lee as he goes by) Elliot lusts after you. 
 Based on what?  You never even see him. 
 Based on...whenever you see him, you always come home full of books he's recommended... 
 (continuing) ...or films you must see or... (shrugging) 
 (walking over to him) Oh, no, no, no.  He's my sister's husband.  And I think if you gave him half a chance, you'd like him. He's very intelligent. 
 He's a glorified accountant, and he's after you. (kissing Lee's hand) And I prefer to sell my work to people who appreciate it, not to rock stars. (kissing Lee's face) You understand? 
 (sighing) Ohhh! 
 (gesturing) What do you mean, they won't let us do the sketch? 
 Talk to Standards and Practices. They think it's too dirty. 
 But we showed it to them in rehearsal! 
 (to Paul) You know, what'd they do, figure out what the words mean? 
 Mickey, we got a half hour to air! 
 We're short!  The show is five minutes short! 
 How could it be short?  We timed everything (offscreen) long. 
 (offscreen) If we have to... 
 (continuing) ...pull out the sketch, then we'll be ten minutes short! 
 (gesturing) I don't know how they can do that to us.  That's-- We go on in thirty minutes, right? 
 (squeezing past several passersby) They're doing it because our ratings are low. 
 (nervously rubbing his forehead) I got such a migraine. 
 (offscreen) Hey, Mickey! 
 Mickey!  Listen, we better go right to Ronny's dressing room.  This kid must have taken sixteen hundred Quaaludes.  I don't think he's going to be able to do the show! 
 (gesturing towards heaven) Why me, Lord?  What did I-- 
 You-- (pointing) Standards and Practices? 
 Ed Smythe, yes. 
 Okay.  Why, all of a sudden, is the sketch dirty? (putting his hands on his hips) 
 (gesturing) Child molestation is a touchy subject... 
 (overlapping, looking at Gail) Could you-- 
 (continuing) ...with the affiliates. 
 (overlapping and grunting) Read the papers!  Half the country's doing it! 
 (pointing at Mickey) Yes, but you name names. 
 (gesturing) We nev-- We don't name names! (turning to Gail for support, briefly touching her shoulders, then looking back at Ed) We say the Pope. 
 (gesturing emphatically) We always say the Pope! 
 That sketch... 
 (overlapping) We-- 
 (continuing) ...cannot go on the air. 
 Oh, Je-- 
 (interrupting, shouting) Hey! 
 (angrily, slapping his script) Who changed my sketch about the PLO? 
 (gesturing) I had to make some cuts.  It's four lousy lines! 
 The whole premise is ruined! 
 (gesturing, trying to calm the writer down) Oh, you're crazy!  It's not so delicate.  Everybody's married to every line. 
 (tapping Mickey's shoulder) Mickey, I can-- 
 (interrupting, angrily gesturing) I don't care!  I don't want anyone tampering with my goddamn work without telling me! 
 (shrugging) Okay. 
 (pointing angrily) You want 'em cut?!  I'll cut 'em myself! 
 (shrugging, distracted) All right, all right. (muttering) 
 (overlapping, trying to get Mickey's attention and gesturing) Mickey, Mickey, listen, listen. 
 (distractedly, his mind still on the writer) You know... (muttering as the writer passes him and walks away) 
 (overlapping, gesturing) In-in-in-instead of the child molestation sketch, why don't we repeat the Cardinal Spellman Ronald Reagan homosexual dance number? 
 (still distracted, looking off) No-- 
 (overlapping) I don't feel good, Mickey. 
 (gesturing) Yeah, wh-- Yeah, what did you do? Swallow a drugstore?! 
 (to Gail) Look at this guy. 
 (overlapping, touching Ron's chair) Yeah? 
 (groaning) I lost my voice. 
 (reacting) Oh, Jesus! 
 (gesturing) Ron...Ronny, you know you do have to go on in twenty-five minutes. 
 (looking around, touching his stomach) Hey, does anybody got a Tagamet? My, my ulcer's starting to kill me! 
 (sighing) You want a Quaalude? 
 (V.O.) Christ, this show is ruining my health!  Meanwhile, my ex-partner moves to California and every stupid show he produces turns out to be a big hit.  Brother, what am I gonna do with my life?  Speaking of that, I-I...gotta remember to see my ex-wife tomorrow.  Tch. 
 Hi!  Hi! 
 (overlapping, sniffing) I know...I know. 
 Glad you could put in an appearance. 
 (gesturing) I got two minutes. 
 (overlapping) Very good. 
 (overlapping) I got two minutes. 'Cause, God, the show is killing me.  I got a million appointments today.  It just so happens it fell this way. 
 I gotta see new comedians later, I've gotta-- 
 (interrupting) Two minutes on your sons' birthday. You know, it's not going to kill you. 
 Happy Birthday, fellas!  Happy Birthday! 
 (overlapping their chatter, bending down to talk to her sons) Guys, look what Daddy brought. Presents! 
 (to his sons) Yeah, aren't you like, you know... 
 (overlapping) Huh? 
 (continuing, holding out his arms) ...a little, uh, hey!  A little hug! What is this?  Now how 'bout a little action from the kids? 
 (turning to Hannah) How is everything? 
 (picking up the gift on the sofa and nodding) Everything's good.  Everything's fine. 
 (nodding, overlapping) Yeah?  Yeah? (pointing) Okay, kids, you can open the presents now. 
 (overlapping) Here, you guys.  Open them up. 
 Let me get a little reaction here. (to Hannah, putting his hands in his pockets) How's Elliot? 
 He's fine. 
 Yeah? 
 (overlapping) Oh, you know what?  I'm trying to convince him to produce a play. 
 Oh! 
 I think he'll find that satisfying. 
 (nodding) Really?  That'll be terrific for him, I think. 
 I think so. 
 I like him.  I think he's a sweet guy. 
 (stroking one of the twins' backs) Yeah. 
 The few times that I've met him... (pointing to the baseball mitt twin #1, has taken out of his box) Isn't that a great mitt? 
 #1 Thank you, Daddy. 
 (overlapping to Hannah) 'Cause he's a loser. 
 (overlapping, to Twin #1) Ohh! 
 (overlapping, gesturing) H-he's so awkward and he's clumsy like me... 
 (overlapping, chuckling) I know, I know. 
 (overlapping) ...so I, so I like that.  I always like an underconfident person... 
 (overlapping, touching the mitt and reacting) That's really nice! 
 (still rambling on, gesturing to Hannah) ...you know?  I, uh... 
 (overlapping) You know, he's been wanting a mitt. 
 You've always had good taste in husbands, so... 
 (chuckling and nodding) Thanks, thanks. 
 Mh-hm. 
 (leaning down to look at the football) That's a beauty! 
 Isn't that great? 
 Oh! 
 (pointing, to Twin #2) Go right over there. 
 Football! 
 (to the offscreen twin) Come on!  Hurry up!  Let's go! 
 (looking offscreen at twin #2) Wow! 
 (still pointing, gearing up for the pass) Go out, go out by the Sung vase and, and catch this. 
 See? (whistling) 
 (pointing offscreen) Hey, d-- Watch, watch the picture. 
 (V.O.) Gee, Hannah's sweet.  Although, sometimes I still do get angry when I think of things.  Oh, what the hell.  At least, I'm not paying child support. (sighing) Oh, God, I hope there's nothing physically wrong with me, either. 
 DR. ABEL (taking out Mickey's file) So what's the, uh, problem this time? 
 (offscreen) This time I really think I have something. 
 (onscreen) I mean, I'm absolutely convinced that-that-- You know, I mean, it's not like that adenoidal thing, you know, where I didn't realize I had them out. 
 (continuing, gesturing) So, so, but it was when I was younger, so-- 
 DR. ABEL (overlapping, interrupting) You know, I saw your father this week about his sinus... 
 (folding his arms on his chest) Mm-hm. 
 DR. ABEL (continuing) ...and, uh, he complained of chest pains. 
 Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family.  I mean, he's, you know, he's-- 
 DR. ABEL (interrupting) You mentioned on the phone that you'd had some dizziness. 
 (rubbing his hands on his knees) Yes, a little dizziness, and I think, I think I'm developing a hearing loss in my right ear (poking at his ears and gesturing) ...or my left ear, my, my left...oh, n-n-n-no.  No, I'm sorry.  It was my right, my right, my right or my left ear. 
 (nodding and gesturing) Now I ca-can't remember. 
 DR. ABEL Let's take a look. 
 DR. ABEL Well, I'm sorry to say you have had a significant drop in the high- decibel range of your right ear. 
 (offscreen) Really?! 
 DR. ABEL (offscreen) Have you been exposed to a loud noise recently, or did you have a virus? 
 (offscreen) No, I-I've been perfectly healthy. You know me. 
 (offscreen) I always, I-I always imagine that I have things. 
 DR. ABEL (offscreen) When did you first notice this? 
 (offscreen) Oh, uh, about a month ago.  Wha- what do I have? 
 DR. ABEL You've had some dizzy spells. (sighing) What about ringing and buzzing? Have you, uh, noticed any of that? 
 (gesturing) Yes, now-now that you mention it, uh, I-I-I have, uh, buzzing and also ringing.  Ringing and buzzing. Um, am I going deaf, or something? 
 DR. ABEL (making more notes in the file) And it's just in one ear? 
 (picking at his fingers) Yes, is it, is it, uh, healthier to have problems in both ears? 
 DR. ABEL (his face offscreen) What I'd like to do, is to make an appointment for you at the hospital. I'd like to have them run some tests. 
 The hospital?  What kind of tests? 
 DR. ABEL (sighing) Now, don't get alarmed.  These are just more sophisticated audiometry tests than I can run here. (gesturing) I mean, it's, it's nothing. 
 (gesturing) Well, if it's nothing, then why do I have to go into the hospital at all?  I mean, uh, I hear perfectly fine, so I'm, so I'm a little weak on the, on the high decibels.  So I, you know, I won't go to the opera. 
 DR. ABEL (sniffing) You know, there's no reason for panic.  I just want to rule out some things. 
 Like what? 
 DR. ABEL (shaking his head) It's nothing.  Will you trust me? 
 (into the telephone) Huh, uh, hello, Dr. Wilkes?  Dr. Wilkes, this is Mickey Sachs.  You have a minute?  I want to ask you a question. 
 DR. WILKES (into the telephone) Sure, Mickey.  What's up? 
 (into the telephone, gesturing) I-if you have, i-if you have a hearing loss in one ear, and-and it's not from a, uh, virus or a loud noise or anything, wh-what are the possibilities? 
 DR. WILKES (into his telephone) Anything.  Uh, often it's hereditary. Flu, uh, even a small noise will do it. 
 (into the telephone) Uh, right, but-but nothing worse? 
 DR. WILKES (into the telephone) Well, yes, I guess the, uh, dark side of the spectrum is a brain tumor. 
 (into the telephone, reacting with a blank stare) Really? 
 (handing them each some pages of script) Okay, so here's the new pages. 
 (looking over the pages) Say, did cards get these? 
 (scratching her head) No, not yet.  No. 
 (looking over his pages) Well, let's hope it's good. 
 Yeah, really.  Really. 
 Eh, we'll be down in a minute, okay? 
 Mickey, what's the matter with you? You're all white! 
 I feel dizzy.  Sshh, you know, I don't feel well. 
 Do you hear a ringing?  Is there, is there a, is there a ringing sound? (sighing) 
 (gesturing) Yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  I hear, I hear it. 
 (shaking his head) N-n-no, not that. 
 (overlapping, into the telephone) Hello? 
 (covering first one ear, then the other, continuing) Like-- (putting a finger into his ear, closing his eyes and listening) 
 (into the telephone) Uh, yeah, yeah.  We're going to be working late tonight.  N-no, we'll order out.  It's all right.  Yeah. 
 (turning to Gail, gesturing nervously) Sssss, if I have a brain tumor, I don't know what I'm gonna do. (sighing) 
 You don't have a brain tumor.  He didn't say you had a brain tumor. 
 (sighing) No, naturally (gesturing) they're not gonna tell you, because, well, you know, th--, sometimes the weaker ones will panic if you tell 'em. 
 (pointing a finger at Mickey) But not you. 
 (flinging up his arms, sighing) Oh, God! (looking around worriedly and touching Gail's shoulder) Do you hear a buzzing?  Is there a buzzing? 
 (impatiently) Mickey, come on, we got a show to do! 
 (pacing) I can't keep my mind on the show. 
 (offscreen) But there's nothing wrong with you. 
 (sighing and gesturing) If there's nothing wrong with me (pacing back to the desk and Gail) then why does he want me to come back for tests?! 
 (gesturing) Well, he has to rule out certain things. (sighing) 
 Like what?!  What? 
 (shrugging) I don't know.  Cancer, I-- 
 (interrupting) Don't say that!  I don't want to hear that word! (gesturing) Don't mention that while I'm in the building. 
 (gesturing) But you don't have any symptoms! 
 (gesturing) You--I got the classic symptoms of a brain tumor! 
 Two months ago, you thought you had a malignant melanoma. 
 (gesturing) Naturally, I, I--Do you know I--The sudden appearance of a black spot on my back! 
 It was on your shirt! 
 (sighing) I--How was I to know?! (pointing to his back) Everyone was pointing back here. 
 Come on, we've got to make some booking decisions. 
 I can't.  I can't think of it. This morning, I was so happy, you know.  Now I, I don't know what went wrong. (sighing) 
 Eh, you were miserable this morning! We got bad reviews, terrible ratings, the sponsors are furious... 
 (pacing back to the desk, still wringing his hands) No, I was happy, but I just didn't realize I was happy. 
 (offscreen) The Stroganoff is ready. 
 Oh, in this we're a big hit. Yesterday I auditioned for Come Back Little Sheba.  That, I wasn't such a big hit. 
 (to Holly) Excuse me, are there any more claims? 
 I can't resist. 
 (eating a canapé and pointing at Holly) Listen, you guys are too attractive to be caterers.  Something's wrong. 
 Is this your first job? 
 (shaking his head) Oh no.  Not at all. 
 We need more bread and some baked lasa-- (realizing Holly isn't there and, at the same time, noticing David) uh, lasagne. (turning to David) Hi. 
 (standing by the sink as he wipes his hands and mouth with a napkin) I know.  You're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs. 
 (working at the stove, pointing a finger for emphasis) Uh, no, the shrimp puffs are Holly's.  I do the, uh, crêpes caviar. 
 And the quail is responsible for the quail eggs. 
 (turning to David and chuckling) Well, let's hope so. 
 (taking the plate) Ah! HOLLY (looking busily around the room) Now. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) Incidentally, I'm David Tolchin. 
 (turning to David) Oh, uh, April Knox.  Hi. 
 (looking at her) Hi. 
 (leaving the counter and squeezing past David and Holly) Oh. 
 (overlapping Holly's apology, turning to her) You're Holly. 
 (chewing on a clam canapé) Now I'm going to tell you the truth. I really came in here because I was bored stiff by the party. 
 (turning on the set) Actually, I'm going to listen to Aida, if I'm not getting in your way. 
 (offscreen) No...no.  No-- (sniffing) 
 (nodding, his hand still on his watch as he looks at Holly) I cry at the opera. 
 (offscreen) Oh, I-I-I go limp in the last scene in La Traviata.  Limp. 
 (nodding, to April) Me, too.  I have a private box at the Met. (gesturing) I bring my little bottle of wine, I open it, I sit there and I watch and (glancing over to the offscreen Holly) I cry.  It's disgusting. 
 (nodding) I'm an architect. 
 Wha-- (turning to glance at Holly) What kind of things do you build? 
 Are you really interested? 
 Yeah. 
 What time do you get off? 
 (offscreen) Oh, it's magnificent! 
 (offscreen) Yeah. 
 (gesturing, looking back and forth from the buildings to Holly and April) The design's deliberately noncontextural.  But I wanted to... keep the atmosphere of the street, you know, and the proportions. 
 And in the material. That's...that's unpolished red granite. (pausing as he watches Holly and April's reaction) 
 (overlapping) Oh, is that what it is? 
 (interrupting, nodding at Holly) I-i-it has an o-organic quality, you know. 
 (looking back at the building with reverence) It's almost...almost, uhhh, entirely wholly interdependent, if you know what I mean.  I-I... I can't put it into words.  The important thing is-is-is it-it breathes. 
 (turning to April, emphatically) You know, April, people pass by vital structures in this city all the time, and they never take the time to appreciate them.  I get the feeling you tune in to your environment. 
 (shaking her head) Oh-- 
 (looking only at David) What are your favorite buildings, David? 
 You want to see some? 
 (nodding) Oh, yeah. 
 Well, let's do it. 
 (looking at David) Great. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Yes. 
 (offscreen, interrupting) It's French, though.  It really is. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) It feels like you're in France. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) It-it is.  It's romantic. 
 (offscreen) And it's got a handsome partner sitting right beside it. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) They fit right in together.  And your eye goes along, lulled into complacency, and then... 
 (offscreen) That's just -- 
 (offscreen, interrupting) Look at this. 
 (offscreen, continuing) ...a monstrosity!  Who would do that? 
 (offscreen, emphatically) It's really sad. 
 (offscreen, agreeing) It does. 
 (offscreen) Well...we have seen a lot of stuff today, though. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Yeah. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) A lot of works. 
 (glancing at his watch) Maybe we should start thinking about going home, huh? 
 Oh, geez, yeah. 
 (looking back at the women as he walks around the car to the driver's side) Uh, who gets dropped first? 
 Uh -- 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Well... 
 (overlapping) Well, I live downtown. 
 (gesturing) Uh... 
 (overlapping) Well, wait.  You know what?  I know. 
 (to Holly, gesturing) If...well, if we took the, if we took Fifth, then-then-then we'd get to your house first, yeah? 
 (overlapping, nodding) We could...we could do that. 
 (overlapping, to Holly) Well, sometimes, some, uh... 
 (pointing to Holly, interrupting their chatter) Y-you live in Chelsea, don't you? 
 Well, I-I guess if you live in Chelsea, that's probably first. 
 Yeah. 
 And then, uh, April...huh? 
 (overlapping, nodding) Great. 
 (trying not to sound out of breath) Oh, my goodness! 
 (overlapping, smiling in surprise) Oh, Elliot! 
 Hi. 
 (smiling) What are you doing here? 
 (looking around, gesturing) Well, I'm-I'm looking for a bookstore. 
 (shaking her head) Oh, what, in this section of town? 
 Yes.  Yeah, I-I'm kill-- 
 (overlapping) You're out looking here? 
 (glancing at his watch again) Well, yes, I'm killing time.  I have a client near here and I...I'm quite early. 
 (laughing) Ohhhh! 
 (gesturing) How about you? 
 Oh.  Well, I live-- 
 (interrupting, chuckling) Oh, yes!  You live near here, don't you? 
 (overlapping, chuckling) Yes, I do. 
 (putting his hands behind his back) Where are you headed? 
 Oh, I was just going to my AA meeting. 
 Oh, my goodness.  Well, why do you still go to those?  You never tough alcohol. 
 (laughing) Well, listen, you didn't know me before Frederick.  I'd...I'd start with a beer at about ten in the morning, and...go on. 
 (looking at Lee) Oh.  You must have been, uh, very unhappy. 
 Yeah, unhappy and fat. (chuckling) And I still find the meetings very comforting, you know. 
 I'll never understand it.  You're so bright and charming and beautiful. 
 (laughing) Oh, God. 
 (overlapping, chuckling) I think to myself (laughing) what problems could she possibly have? 
 (gesturing, laughing) Don't let me get started on my childhood. (stopping in her tracks, remembering) Oh, you know what?  There is a bookstore. 
 (stopping alongside her) Yes? 
 (overlapping, pointing) A couple of blocks from here.  If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it. 
 Yes? 
 (nodding) Yeah, you would. 
 (looking around for a moment, then gesturing to Lee) Well, i-if-if you have some free time... 
 (nodding) Yeah, sure. (chuckling) 
 Thank you. 
 (offscreen) Isn't this great? (chuckling) They have everything here. 
 (offscreen, distracted) Yes, it's-it's wonderful. 
 (offscreen) What book did you want to buy? 
 (offscreen) What?  Book? 
 (offscreen) Your book?  You wanted to buy a book? 
 (offscreen) Oh, book?  Oh, no, I... (laughing) I'm killing time.  I...I-I just, uh, w-want to browse, uh... 
 (looking up at a row of books) Well, you sure picked the right place.  I mean, you can stay here all afternoon, not buy anything and just read. 
 (offscreen) Unless, of course, if-if you had some time, I mean, we could get some coffee. 
 No, I don't have time. 
 (gesturing) No, no.  I-I-I understand completely. No problem.  Y-you're busy.  I-I-I... 
 (offscreen, chuckling) You seem tense.  Is everything all right?  You feel okay? 
 (overlapping) No!  No... 
 (offscreen) No? 
 (gesturing, looking at books) Uh, yes! 
 (offscreen) Yes? 
 (offscreen momentarily, hidden by a shelf as he talks) Yes. 
 (offscreen) Everything's okay? (chuckling) 
 Yeah.  How are you? 
 (offscreen) I'm...all right. 
 (offscreen momentarily, hidden by another shelf as he walks) How-how's Frederick? 
 (offscreen) Fine.  Oh, we went to the Caravaggio exhibition at the Met.  It's such a treat to go through a museum with Frederick.  I mean...you learn so much.  Do you like Caravaggio? 
 (turning to talk to the offscreen Lee) Oh, yes.  Who doesn't? (pointing) Look! 
 (pointing to a book on a shelf, continuing) e.e. cummings.  I'd like to get you this. 
 (offscreen, laughing) Oh, no, I can't let you get me that. That's too much. 
 (pulling the book off the shelf and browsing through it) Oh, oh, yes.  I-I-I-'d like to, uh, uh, very much. 
 (offscreen) No, I don't think so. 
 (gesturing with the book, looking at the offscreen Lee) I-I read a poem of you and thought of his last week. (nervously laughing, trying to correct his mistake) A poem of (laughing) his and thought of you last-- (laughing) You'll be fine, though. (chuckling) Lee walks over to Elliot in the center aisle.  She looks at the book. 
 (overlapping) Uh, uh, this is great.  I mean, I love e.e. cummings, but I can't let you get this. 
 (overlapping, patting the book) Yes, I'd...I-I-I'd love, I'd love to get you this. 
 (looking down at the book) Well, sure. 
 (overlapping) And-and maybe, um...maybe we could discuss it sometime. 
 (laughing, holding up the bag) Well, thanks a lot. 
 (pointing to the bookstore) Thanks for showing me the bookstore. Perhaps you could, uh, take me to an AA meeting sometime.  Uh...uh, I'd love to see what goes on. 
 (nodding) Well, yeah, yeah.  You'd love it. It's really entertaining.  You'd have a good time. (stepping closer to the curb and hailing a cab) I know you would. 
 (pointing to the book) And, uh, d-don't forget the poem on page a hundred and twelve.  It reminded me of you. 
 (laughing) Really?  Well... 
 (leaning down to talk to Lee in the cab) Page a hundred and twelve. 
 Bye. 
 (closing the taxi door for Lee) Bye. 
 (V.O.) (reading) "your slightest look easily will unclose me though I have closed myself as fingers, you open always petal by petal myself... 
 (V.O.) (continuing reading) "...as Spring opens [touching skillfully, mysteriously] her first rose [i do not know what it is about you that closes and opens; only something in me understands the voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses]... 
 (V.O.) (continuing reading) "nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands." 
 DR. GREY I wasn't too happy with the results of your ENG or your BSER either. 
 DR. GREY Uh, which is why I sent you to Tomography, which was all that stuff you saw rolling around. (pointing to a spot on one of the X-rays) You see this little gray area here? 
 DR. GREY That gray area's what I had hoped that we wouldn't run into.  I'd like you to come in Monday morning for, uh, a CAT scan. 
 (reacting) A brain scan? 
 DR. GREY (gesturing) Mr. Sachs, let's take one step at a time.  We won't make any decisions until we have all the information in front of us, all right? 
 (V.O.) Okay...take it easy.  He didn't say you had anything.  He just doesn't like the spot on your X-ray, that's all.  It doesn't mean you have anything.  Don't jump to conclusions. (sighing) Nothing's gonna happen to you. You're in the middle of New York City.  This is your town.  You're surrounded by people and traffic and restaurants. 
 (V.O.) I mean, God, how can you, how can you just one day...vanish?  Keep calm.  You're gonna be okay.  Don't panic. 
 (V.O.) I'm dying!  I'm dying!  I know it! There's a spot on my lungs! (sitting up, putting on his glasses) All right now, take it easy, will you?  It's not on your lungs.  It's on your ear.  No, it's the same thing, isn't it? (pulling the sheets off and sitting on the edge of his bed) Oh, jeez, I can't sleep!  Oh, God, there's a tumor in my head the size of a basketball! (putting on his slippers) N-now I keep thinking I can feel it every time I blink!  Oh, Jesus! He-he-he wants me to do a brain scan to confirm what he already suspects. 
 (V.O.) (running his hand along a banister) Look...I'll make a deal with God. Let it just be my ear, okay?  I'll go deaf.  I'll go deaf and blind in one eye maybe.  But I don't want a brain operation!  Once they go into my skull, I'll-I'll wind up like the guy with the, with the wool cap who delivers for the florist! 
 (V.O.) Oh, relax, will ya?  Your whole life you run to doctors.  The news is always fine. (pausing at the bottom of the stairs) That's not true.  What about years ago? 
 DR. SMITH (gesturing with one hand) I'm sorry to say, Mr. Sachs, that you cannot have children. 
 (reacting, putting his hands across his chest) Gee. 
 (reacting) Is there no chance? 
 DR. SMITH (getting up from his desk) Well, naturally, this doesn't mean that you can't have a normal sex life. (walking over to the opened office door and closing it) But Mr. Sachs's tests indicate that he is infertile.  Small sperm volume and infertile. 
 (gesturing, looking up at an offscreen Dr. Smith) Isn't there anything I can do? Push-ups or hormones? 
 DR. SMITH (offscreen) I'm afraid not. 
 Well, I gotta get a second opinion. 
 (turning to Mickey) This is the second opinion. 
 (shrugging) Well, then a third opinion. 
 DR. SMITH I realize this is a blow.  My experience is that many very fine marriages become unstable and are destroyed by an inability to deal with this sort of problem.  I hope you won't make too much of it.  One can adopt children, and there are various artificial methods of fertilization. 
 (gesturing) I'm so humiliated.  I don't know what to say.  I mean-- 
 (interrupting, wiping her eyes with her tissue) Could you have ruined yourself somehow? 
 (gesturing) How could I ruin myself?  What do you mean, ruin myself? 
 (overlapping, looking at Mickey) I don't know.  Excessive masturbation? 
 Hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies?  Jesus! 
 Maybe, maybe we can adopt a child. He said you could adopt one-- 
 (interrupting) Well, what about artificial insemination? 
 (gesturing) What are you talking about? 
 (overlapping) You know, where I-I-I would get implanted from a-a donor. 
 (reacting) What, by a st-stranger? 
 Yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen. 
 (gesturing) Fro--?  You want a-a defrosted kid? Is that your idea? 
 I want to experience childbirth. 
 With a, with a stranger?  With a-- 
 (interrupting, sniffing) Just think about it.  That's all I ask. 
 (putting down her cup) Oh, that was a wonderful show.  I think that's the best show you two ever wrote. 
 (holding his cup, pointing emphatically) No, the funniest show that Mickey and I ever did was the one we won the Emmy for. 
 Yeah...I-I think as, I think as far as laughs, I mean just plain laughs, you know, that was probably the best thing that we ever did. 
 (agreeing) Mm-hm. 
 (overlapping, her hands over her crossed knees and nodding) Yeah, it was funny, it was very funny.  But the show was about the two Frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm. 
 (to Carol, gesturing with his cup) We got that idea on that trip to Paris. 
 (nodding) Right. 
 (smiling) Hmm? 
 (to the offscreen Hannah) Do you remember that summer in France?  Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks. 
 (sighing, almost mumbling) Yeah, but it was, you know, I guess we had fun when we were there and, you know, it's just, I-- 
 (overlapping, nodding) Mm-hm. 
 (to Mickey) Sorry. (to Norman and Carol) Coffee?  Listen, you guys, we were-- You want some more? 
 (holding out his cup) Mmm. 
 (refilling Norman's cup) We-we...we had something we-we really wanted to discuss with you. 
 (overlapping, coughing) Yeah... 
 (standing up and gesturing) Jeez, this is, this is, this is very delicate and-and I only bring this up amongst friends, you know. 
 (turning to the group as he paces behind the couch) I mean... (grunting) this is, uh... this should not go any further than this room. 
 (sipping his coffee) I'm all ears. 
 (gesturing and pacing) Hannah and I...can't have any children.  Now I-I-I don't want to get into whose fault it-- (gesturing) It's my fault that we can't and- and-and the details are too embarrassing to-- 
 (interrupting, nervously picking at her fingers) W-w-we-we've decided after a lot of discussion that we-we'd try with artificial insemination. 
 (putting his hands on his hips) Yeah, I'm not so sure that I, that I like that idea myself, anyway-- 
 (overlapping) Um, I-I didn't really want to, you know, go to a sperm bank or something, have some anonymous donor. (gesturing at Norman and Carol) I-I just, you know, I-I-I wouldn't want that. 
 (pacing) Right.  We felt that if we were gonna do it, that we would like somebody who we knew and who we liked and who was warm and bright and... 
 And you can say no... you know. Feel free to say no.  W-we realize it has all kinds of implications. 
 Yeah, but the-the point that, uh, that we're making here is that we need some sperm. 
 (sighing) Gee. (chuckling) Well... My first reaction after the initial shock is, uh, flattered that you would ask me. (chuckling nervously) 
 (pointing at himself) Yeah, well, I would be the father. (pointing to Norman) You would just have to masturbate into a little cup. 
 (shrugging) I can handle that. 
 (scooting closer to Carol and Norman on the couch, gesturing) Obviously we wou-wouldn't have intercourse. 
 (to Hannah, chuckling nervously briefly) Gosh, listen. (rubbing her nose) I've gotta tell you the truth here. I'm a little uneasy about this. 
 (putting her hand on Carol's shoulder) Carol, I know it's a lot to ask. 
 (gesturing) Well...I feel for you.  I do. I...I'm gonna cry.  You want my husband to have a child with you? 
 (gesturing) Ye-- D-d-d-don't answer now.  Just, you know, take it home and think about it for a while. 
 (holding his coffee cup, thoughtful) I gave blood before and, uh... clothing to the poor. 
 (to Norman, scratching her ear) Okay, Norman, listen, I really want to talk about this at home. (nodding as Hannah looks briefly offscreen at Mickey) I think it's a matter for your analyst...and mine. 
 (emphatically) And maybe my lawyer. 
 (gesturing) You know, we-we understand completely if, you know, if you feel you'd-you'd rather not. (chuckling nervously) I didn't mean to spoil the evening. (rubbing her hands) Now let's move on to another topic. 
 (V.O.) So you had my ex-partner's baby. Twins.  Maybe that did cause some trouble, but (sighing) I think we were drifting apart anyhow.  Now instead of man and wife we're just good friends.  Boy, love is really unpredictable. 
 (leading the way into the loft, gesturing) Lee, Frederick...say hello to Dusty Frye. 
 (shaking Dusty's hand) Hi, Dusty. 
 Hi. 
 (as he walks) Dusty's just bought a huge house in Southampton and he's in the process of decorating it. 
 Yeah.  It's kind of a weird place, actually.  A lotta wall space. (chuckling) 
 Oh. 
 (to Frederick, giving him a "hip" handshake) How ya doin', man? 
 (to a less than enthusiastic Frederick) I told him about your work, and he's very excited. 
 Yeah, I got an Andy Warhol.  And I got a Frank Stella, too.  Oh, it's very beautiful. (gesturing) Big, weird...you know. (chuckling as he crosses his arms on his chest) If you stare at that Stella too long, the colors just seem to float. It's kinda weird. 
 (chuckling, her arms crossed) Are you excited about becoming a collector? 
 Yeah. 
 (nodding) Yeah? 
 (shrugging) I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid. 
 (nodding) Uh-huh. 
 (addressing but not looking at Dusty) Do you appreciate drawings? 
 (shrugging) Yeah. (chuckling as he notices and points to some offscreen drawings Frederick has set up) Oh!  Hey!  Wow! (pointing to an offscreen nude drawing) She's beautiful.  But, uh, really, I-I-I-I need something... I'm looking for something big. 
 (looking at an offscreen Frederick, gesturing) Big.  Frederick, show him the oils. 
 (offscreen) They're in the basement. 
 (to Dusty) Frederick's done this whole new series that I'm sure you would really love. 
 (overlapping, muttering) Well, are...are they big? 
 Yeah.  Some of them...yeah, some of them are very big. 
 'Cause I got a lot of wall space there. (chuckling) 
 (angrily stopping in his tracks) I don't sell my work by the yard! 
 (chuckling, reacting) Oh, Frederick! 
 (chuckling softly) How's everything? 
 (walking onscreen towards Elliot) Oh, you know...I talked to Hannah this morning on the phone, and she said that you two might be going to the country for the weekend. 
 Yeah, she loves to go out in the woods. 
 (nodding, her arms clasped around her chest) Oh, yeah. 
 (chuckling) But I go nuts.  It's a conflict. 
 I have to get my teeth cleaned this week. 
 Oh, that's nice. 
 (breaking the silence, pointing in the direction of the door) I figured I'd get, uh, Frederick and Dusty together. 
 (looking in the same direction, gesturing) Oh, yeah, that's really nice of you. 
 Yes.  This kid, he's earned a trillion dollars. 
 (nodding, wrapping her arms around her chest again) Oh. 
 He's got like six gold records. 
 (gesturing, relieved that she's found something to say) Oh, speaking of records...I bought that Mozart Trio you recommended... 
 (continuing) ...and the man in the record shop showed me another one that I think you'd love.  It's a... another Bach, second movement. 
 (offscreen) Oh, you-you have that one? 
 (working at the stereo, turning her head towards Elliot) Yeah. 
 (offscreen) Oh, I would love to hear it. 
 (putting the turntable cover in place) Oh, and Holly met a wonderful man who loves opera.  An architect. 
 (offscreen) Oh, that's nice.  I'd love to see her wind up settled.  She's a tense one. (chuckling) 
 (intently) Isn't that beautiful? 
 (looking at Lee, his hands clasped in front of him) I know this.  Bach.  F Minor Concerto.  It's one of my favorites. 
 (after a pause) Uh...did you ever get around to e.e. cummings? 
 (wrapping her arms around her chest and looking away from Elliot for a moment) Yes, he's just adorable. 
 (awkwardly) They have a very large gay clientele, you know, where I get my teeth cleaned, and...all the hygienists now wear gloves because they're afraid of AIDS. 
 (taking a breath) Oh, right. 
 (softly) Did you ever get around to the poem on page a hundred and twelve? 
 Yes, it made me cry (tentatively looking at Elliot) it was so beautiful...so romantic. 
 (V.O.) I want so badly to kiss her.  Not here, you idiot.  You've got to get her alone someplace. 
 (V.O.) But I've got to proceed cautiously. This is a very delicate situation. Okay, uh...ask her if you can see her for lunch or a drink tomorrow. 
 (V.O.) And be ready to make light of the offer if she's unresponsive.  This has to be done very skillfully, very diplomatically. 
 (showing Elliot a poem in her book) Did you ever read this one--? 
 Elliot!  Don't! 
 Lee!  Lee!  Lee, I'm in love with you. 
 (breathing hard) Oh! 
 (gasping) What are you doing?! 
 (frantically) I...I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm sorry.  I have to talk to you for... There's so much that I want to tell you. 
 (still gasping) Elliot! 
 (gesturing desperately) I have been in love with you for so long. 
 (angrily) Please forget it!  I don't have any interest in selling anything! 
 (gesturing) I ask you if you have something with a little puce in it, you gotta fly off the handle! 
 (in a slightly higher-pitched voice) What's the problem? 
 (pulling the nude drawings off his easel angrily) I'm not interested in what your interior decorator would think, okay?! 
 (overlapping, gesturing) Well, I can't commit to anything without consulting her first. That's what I have her for, okay? 
 (carrying the drawings off) This is degrading!  You don't buy paintings to blend in with the sofa! 
 (looking after Frederick) It's not a sofa, it's an ottoman! (touching his forehead, turning to Elliot) God, forget it!  Let's just get outta here, Elliot. 
 (putting down the book) We'll go. 
 (angrily, getting into the car) What a weirdo that guy is!  Paranoid. (noticing Elliot's anguished face) What's the matter with you? 
 (gesturing) Look I-I-I'll be okay.  I'll be okay. 
 (overlapping) It's not that big a deal.  We just didn't hit it off. 
 (gesturing) Now, look, you-you-you go on ahead. 
 Are you okay?  You look-- You're sweatin'. 
 (overlapping, nervously) Yeah.  Yeah, I just-just need so- some-some fresh air.  It's probably something I ate.  I'll-I'll walk. You go ahead. 
 (continuing, gesturing) You go.  Go on.  Go. 
 (into the telephone) Hello?  Hello?  Hello? 
 (gesturing in relief) Oh!  There you are! 
 I was looking for you. 
 (gesturing) I, I must apologize.  I-I'm, I-I'm sorry.  I'm so mixed up. 
 (gesturing) Well, how do you expect me to react to such a thing? 
 (taking Lee's arm) Wh--, uh, I know, I know but, I am in love with you. 
 Oh, don't say those words! 
 (overlapping, shaking his head) I-I, I'm sorry.  I know it's terrible. 
 (pushing back her hair, shaking her head hopelessly) Why, you know the situation. 
 (looking away for a moment) I know!  I-I-I-I, I realize. 
 What do you expect me to say? 
 Hannah and I are in the last stages. 
 (shaking her head) Wh-- She's never said anything, and we're very close.  She'd tell me such a thing. 
 Wh--, it-it-it-it, it's so sad. She's crazy about me, but somewhere on the, along the line, I've fallen out of love with her. 
 Not because of me, I hope. 
 Oh, no, no. (nodding) Well, yes!  I love you. 
 Oh, I can't be the cause of anything between you and Hannah.  I jus-- 
 (overlapping, shaking his head) Oh, no, no, no.  It, uh, it-it-it- it was i-inevitable that Hannah and I part, anyway. 
 Why? 
 Tch, w-well, for a million reasons. 
 (gesturing) But not over me? 
 Tch, no!  We were, we were both going in different directions. 
 (looking down) Poor Hannah. 
 But-but, but how about you?  Do you, do you share any of my feelings? Or is this just an unpleasant embarrassment to you? 
 (reacting uneasily) I can't say anything! 
 W-well, please be candid.  I, I-I don't want you to feel bad. 
 (putting her hand to her head) Yes!  But I...I have certain feelings for you, but don't make me say anything more, all right? 
 (gesturing) O-o-o-okay, Lee.  Okay, okay.  You, you, y-you've said enough.  It's my responsibility now.  I will work things out. 
 Look, don't do anything on my behalf. (shaking her head) I live with Frederick, and Hannah and I are close. 
 Yes, but you, you do care about me. 
 (reacting) Oh, Elliot, please!  I can't be a party to this!  I'm suddenly wracked with guilt just standing her talking to you on the street! 
 (emphatically) Your guilt is because you feel the same. 
 (reacting) Oh, please, I have to go.  I have to get my teeth cleaned. 
 (happily) I have my answer.  I have my answer! I'm walking on air! 
 BUILDING - DAY 
 (distracted) Hi.  How's she doing? 
 (overlapping) I am glad to see you. 
 She's in the kitchen there.  It's the same thing.  Same thing.  She promises, promises. (gesturing) But it's all lies. 
 (offscreen, patiently) Don't make it worse, Dad. 
 (overlapping) Always. 
 Hi, Mom.  How you doing?  Here, let me get you some coffee.  That's enough of that. (taking away her mother's drink, to Evan) What triggered it? 
 (gesturing, as Norma turns her head and watches him) We were making a commercial down at the mayor's office, and there was this young, good-looking salesman... 
 (continuing) ...and your mother was throwing herself at him in a disgusting way, and when she found she was too old to seduce him, that he was just embarrassed by her-- 
 (angrily interrupting, turning her head) Liar!  Liar! 
 Then at lunch she got drunker and drunker (shouting over his shoulder) and finally she became Joan Collins! 
 (offscreen) All my life I've had to put up with insults... 
 (continuing, dramatically) ...from this non-person, this, th- th-this haircut that passes for a man. (turning to look at the offscreen Hannah) He could never support us.  It's a good thing we had a talented daughter! 
 I can only hope that she was mine. With you as her mother (gesturing, his voice getting louder) her father could be anybody in Actors' Equity! 
 She's talented...so it's not likely she's yours! (taking a sip of water) 
 (walking over to the doorway to speak to Evan, who's already fuming in the den) Dad, could you just please stay in the other room and let me take care of her? 
 (offscreen, choosing to ignore Hannah's suggestion) You never know when she's going to fall off the wagon and humiliate everybody. 
 Here, Mom.  Drink this. (leaning against a kitchen counter) You know, you're awful.  You probably were flirting. 
 (sipping her coffee) No!  I like to joke around and have fun, and he gets angry because I get the attention.  He's gotten sourer as he's gotten older, and I've tried to stay young...at heart. 
 You promised to stay on the wagon. 
 (shaking her head) The sacrifices I've made because of that man. (inhaling) He's ruined me with his ego, his philandering, his-- (gesturing) his-his-his-his mediocrity! 
 Okay, stop being so dramatic. 
 (shouting to the offscreen Evan) He's the one that's made every ingenue in stock! 
 (quietly) Okay, okay. 
 (touching Hannah's arm, gasping) Th-th-they, they wanted me for a screen test. 
 (patiently) Yeah, I know, Mom. 
 (gesturing) But I, I knew that he'd get up there and he'd flounder around with his expensive haircuts and hairdos and clothes.  He's all show! (touching Hannah's arm again, then touching her chest) Now how can you act when there's nothing inside to come out?! 
 (V.O.) She was so beautiful at one time, and he was so dashing.  Both of them just full of promise and hopes that never materialized. 
 (V.O.) And the fights and the constant infidelities to prove themselves...and blaming each other. It's s-sad.  They loved the idea of having us kids, but raising us didn't interest them much.  But it's impossible to hold it against them.  They didn't know anything else. 
 You know, of all of us in the family, you were the one blessed with the true gift. 
 (holding the hand her mother had placed on her shoulder) Ohhh, my true gift is luck, Mom. 
 (overlapping) I just had a lot of luck...from my first show, you know?  I've always thought Lee was the one destined for great things. 
 Yes, she's lovely, but she doesn't have your spark. (gesturing and chuckling) She knows it.  She worships you. She wouldn't dare get up there on the stage. 
 (looking at her mother) Now, Holly's not shy. 
 No, Holly's game for anything. Holly takes after me. 
 True. 
 (shaking her head) I'd have been a great dope addict. 
 (looking up) Remember this, Hannah? 
 DR. BROOKS Mr. Sachs, (sighing) I'm afraid the news is not good. 
 DR. BROOKS (continuing, taking a pencil out of his pocket) If I can show you exactly where the tumor is, and why we feel that surgery would be of no use. 
 (V.O.) It's over.  I'm face-to-face with eternity. 
 DR. BROOKS (offscreen) ...grown quite large without being detected... (trailing off indistinctly as Mickey continues his anguished ramblings) 
 (V.O.) Not later, but now.  I'm so frightened I can't move, speak, or breathe. 
 DR. BROOKS Well, you're just fine.  There's absolutely nothing here at all. And your tests are all fine. (switching on the light on the panel and propping up the X-rays) I must admit, I was concerned, given your symptoms. (turning to look at the offscreen Mickey) What caused this hearing loss in one ear, I guess we'll never really know for sure.  But whatever it was, it's certainly not anything serious at all. (nodding) I'm very relieved. 
 What do you mean you're quitting? Why?  The news is good!  You don't have canc--the thing. 
 Do you realize what a thread we're all hanging by? 
 (offscreen) Mickey, you're off the hook.  You should be celebrating. 
 (walking around to the front of his desk, gesturing) Can you understand how meaningless everything is?  Everything!  I'm talking about nnnn--our lives, the show...the whole world, it's meaningless. 
 (gesturing) Yeah...but you're not dying! 
 No, I'm not dying now, but, but (gesturing) you know, when I ran out of the hospital, I, I was so thrilled because they told me I was going to be all right.  And I'm running down the street, and suddenly I stop, 'cause it hit me, all right, so, you know, I'm not going to go today. I'm okay.  I'm not going to go tomorrow. (pointing) But eventually, I'm going to be in that position. 
 You're just realizing this now? 
 (offscreen) Well, I don't realize it now, I know it all the time, but, but I managed to stick it in the back of my mind... 
 ...because it-it's a very horrible thing to... think about! 
 (muttering) Yeah.  What? 
 (turning to Gail) Can I tell you something?  Can I tell you a secret? 
 (nodding impatiently as she walks around the desk) Yes, please. 
 (pointing) A week ago, I bought a rifle. 
 (sitting on the arm of a chair near Mickey) No. 
 (overlapping, nodding and gesturing) I went into a store, I bought a rifle.  I was gonna... You know, if they told me that I had a tumor, I was going to kill myself.  The only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated.  I would, I woulda had to shoot them, also, first.  And then, I have an aunt and uncle, I would have... You know, it would have been a bloodbath. 
 (shrugging, unwrapping a stick of gum) Tch, well, you know, eventually it, it is going to happen to all of us. 
 Yes, but doesn't that ruin everything for you?  That makes everything... 
 (continuing) ...you know it, it just takes the pleasure out of everything. (gesturing, pointing) I mean, you're gonna die, I'm gonna die, the audience is gonna die, the network's gonna-- The sponsor. Everything! 
 (chewing) I know, I know, and your hamster. 
 (nodding emphatically) Yes! 
 (chewing and pointing to Mickey) Listen, kid, I think you snapped your cap. 
 (continuing, chewing loudly) Maybe you need a few weeks in Bermuda, or something.  Or go to a whorehouse!  No? 
 (shaking his head, his hand to his chest) I can't stay on this show.  I gotta get some answers.  Otherwise (pausing and holding his head) I'm telling you, I'm going to do something drastic. 
 (looking intensely at Lee, his hands in his pockets) I thought you weren't coming. 
 I almost didn't. 
 (putting his hand on her shoulder, wanting to kiss her) Lee... uh... 
 I didn't sleep all night. 
 (taking his hand away, gesturing to the room) No, no-no-no, I'm sure. 
 What are we doing, meeting in a hotel room?  It's terrible, isn't it? 
 (offscreen) I-I couldn't think where to invite you without taking risks. 
 I promised myself I wouldn't let this happen till you were living alone.  I was so torn when you called. 
 (offscreen) I've wanted to call you everyday since I first told you how I felt. 
 I resisted so many times. (pausing) Don't think badly of me. 
 This is not an easy situation. 
 (whispering) I know it isn't. 
 That was just perfect.  You've ruined me for anyone else. 
 (offscreen) I don't want anyone else ever to have you. 
 (sighing) I was so worried I wouldn't compare with Hannah. 
 (offscreen, laughing) Oh, my God. 
 You really do have those thoughts, don't you? 
 (chuckling, touching Elliot's arm) Oh, all the time. 
 I know she must be a really passionate person. 
 (looking at their clasped hands) Yes, she's, she's very warm, but, but it-it's me that wants to be giving to you.  I-I-I want to do things for you.  Hannah doesn't need me as much. (chuckling as Lee laughs) I'm being presumptuous.  Not that you need me. 
 (nodding) I want you to take care of me... And I love when you do things to me. 
 (offscreen) You're late. 
 (opening the bathroom door) Lucy and I kept talking, and I didn't realize how late it had gotten. 
 (barely glancing up from his paper) You missed a very dull TV show about Auschwitz.  More gruesome film clips...and more puzzled intellectuals declaring their mystification over the systematic murder of millions. 
 (turning his head slightly in Lee's direction and gesturing) The reason why they could never answer the question "How could it possibly happen?" is that it's the wrong question.  Given what people are, the question is (swallowing) "Why doesn't it happen more often?" Of course it does, in subtler forms. 
 (moving her fingers through her wet hair) I have a little headache from this weather. 
 (grunting, sipping his coffee) It's been ages since I sat in front of the TV... just changing channels to find something. 
 You see the whole culture...Nazis, deodorant salesman, wrestlers...beauty contests, the talk show... Can you imagine the level of a mind that watches wrestling? (gesturing) Hmm?  But the worst are the fundamentalist preachers...third- rate con men, telling the poor suckers that watch them that they speak for Jesus...and to please send in money. (picking up his sandwich) Money, money, money!  If Jesus came back, and saw what's going on in his name, he'd never stop throwing up. 
 (impatiently, her hands in her hair) Oh, God, Frederick, could you please lighten up?!  I'm really not in the mood to hear a review of contemporary society again. 
 (standing up from the table) You know, you've been very nervous lately. 
 (sighing) I can't take this anymore. 
 (walking over to the bed) I'm just trying to complete an education I started on you five years ago. 
 (unbuttoning her blouse) I'm not your pupil. (sighing, her hands at her side) I was, but I'm not. 
 (sitting down on the edge of the bed) When you leave the nest, I just want you to be ready to face the real world. 
 (putting her hand on Frederick's leg) Frederick, we're going to have to make some changes. 
 (quickly looking at Lee, alarmed) Like what? 
 Oh, you know what.  I'm suffocating! 
 (turning away, his hands clasped in front of him) Oh!  Are we going to have this conversation again? 
 Yes, we're going to have this conversation again.  I...I have to leave.  I have to move out. 
 (shaking his clasped hands intensely) Why? 
 (sighing) Because I have to! 
 (emotionally) What are you going to use for money?! 
 I don't know.  I thought, maybe I'd move in with my parents for a while. 
 Tch, oh.  I always told you you would leave me. (looking at Lee) But...does it have to be now? 
 (hugging her arm with her other hand) Well, maybe it'll only be temporary, but I ha--I have to try. 
 (taking Lee's head in his hands and looking at her) Oh...Lee, you are my whole world. (pausing) Good God!  Have you been kissed tonight?! 
 (reacting, pushing Frederick's hands from her face) No. 
 (reacting) Oh, yes, you have! 
 (quickly standing up, defensively) No. 
 (raising his voice) You've been with someone! 
 (overlapping, running away from the bed) Stop accusing me! 
 (offscreen) I'm too smart, Lee!  You can't fool me!  You're turning all red! 
 Leave me alone! 
 (angrily) Oh, Christ!  What's wrong with you?! 
 (leaning against the refrigerator, sighing) I'm sorry. 
 Oh, couldn't you say something? You have to slither around behind my back! 
 (overlapping, her voice emotionally raised) I'm saying it now! 
 So you met somebody else? 
 (sighing, nodding) Yeah. 
 (walking into the bathroom) But you, God, you knew that was going to happen sooner or later.  I can't live like this! 
 (turning to face Lee in the bathroom, his arms crossed) Who is it? 
 (frantically putting things in her purse, glaring at Frederick) What's the difference?!  It's just somebody I met! 
 But who?  Where did you meet him? 
 It doesn't make a difference!  I have to move out! 
 You are, you are my only connection to the world! 
 (gesturing emotionally) Oh, God, that's too much responsibility for me.  It's not fair!  I want a less complicated life, Frederick.  I want a husband, maybe even a child before it's too late. 
 (reacting, his face in his hand) Jesus...Jesus! 
 (gesturing, moving closer to Frederick) Oh, God, I don't even know what I want. 
 (sighing heavily, reacting) Oh... 
 (rubbing Frederick's shoulder tenderly) Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway?  I mean... (laying her head against his shoulder, sighing deeply) it's not sexual anymore.  It's certainly not intellectual.  I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that-- 
 Please, don't patronize me! 
 God!  I should have married you years ago when you wanted to!  I should have agreed. 
 (sighing) Oh, God, don't you know it never would have worked? 
 I told you, one day you would leave me... (leaning on the counter) for a younger man.  I-- 
 (V.O.) What passion today with Lee.  She's a volcano.  It was a totally fulfilling experience... Just as I dreamed it would be. (nodding slightly as he takes off his slippers) That's what it was.  It was like living out a dream...a great dream. (taking off his bathrobe) Now I feel very good and cozy being here next to Hannah.  There's something very lovely and real about Hannah. (tossing his bathrobe aside and lying down on the bed next to Hannah, his hands crossed over his stomach) She gives me a very deep feeling of being part of something.  She's a wonderful woman...and I betrayed her.  She came into my empty life and changed it...and I paid her back by banging her sister in a hotel room.  God, I'm despicable. What a cruel and shallow thing to do. (sitting up) I have to call her now and tell her what we did was crazy. (anxiously) It can't ever happen again.  I'm not that kind of man...and I value Hannah too much.  I love my wife. Now I've betrayed her.  Oh, God! 
 (reading, not looking up) Where're you going? 
 (offscreen) I've, uh...gotta find, gotta get a phone number in my desk.  I forgot to phone Mel Kaufman. 
 (still reading) It's so late. 
 (offscreen) Yeah, I know.  I-I can't believe I forgot. 
 (muttering) What if he answers? (turning into the doorway leading to the living room) I'll hang up. (walking into the darkened living room) I'll tell her we can't communicate until I terminate my marriage. (whispering) It's immoral. 
 (gesturing and whispering) Then, time will pass.  I won't call, and she'll get the idea.  I gotta stop this before I get in too deep.  I'd rather hurt Lee a little, than destroy Hannah. 
 (whispering, rubbing his hands) It's one-thirty.  She...she can't have a conversation with me...with him around.  I'm getting hysterical. (putting his hands on his hips) I'll call her first thing in the morning.  I'll call her at six. (pointing) Frederick goes jogging at six, yeah, she'll be alone.  And I'll, I'll call her and nip it in the bud. 
 (loudly, to the offscreen Hannah, gasping) I've got it!  I've got it!  I've got it! (picking up the phone, into the telephone) Hello? (loudly, for the offscreen Hannah's benefit) Mel! 
 (into the telephone) I would have hung up if you hadn't answered and I promise I won't ever do this again, but I just had to tell you, I feel very close to you tonight.  Very, very close. (pausing) Good night. 
 (V.O.) Millions of books written on every conceivable subject by all these great minds, and, and in the end, none of 'em knows anything more about the big questions of life than I do.  Ss--I read Socrates. You know, n-n-n--, this guy used to kn-knock off little Greek boys. What the hell's he got to teach me? And, and Nietzsche with his, with his Theory of Eternal Recurrence. He said that the life we live, we're gonna live over and over again the exact same way for eternity.  Great.  That means I, uh, I'll have to sit through the Ice Capades again.  Tch.  It's not worth it. 
 (V.O.) And, and Freud, another great pessimist.  Jeez, I was in analysis for years.  Nothing happened.  My poor analyst got so frustrated. The guy finally put in a salad bar. 
 (V.O.) Oh!  Look at all these people jogging...trying to stave off the inevitable decay of the body.  Boy (smacking his lips) it's so sad what people go through with their-their stationary bike and their exercise and their... (glancing at a fat woman jogger in a red sweatsuit who runs by) ...Oh!  Look at this one!  Poor thing.  My God, she has to tote all that fat around.  Maybe the poets are right.  Maybe love is the only answer. 
 (V.O.) Shh--Of course, I was in love with Hannah.  That didn't work out too well. (sighing) I even took her sister out. Remember that? 
 (V.O.) Remember years ago when Hannah and I got divorced and she fixed me up with her sister Holly? 
 (leaning over to Holly, gesturing) I can't hear you.  I can't hear anything.  I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm gonna lose hearing in my ear!  I'm-- 
 (pointing to his ears) I, I, my ears are experiencing a meltdown!  I can't hear anything. 
 (gesturing, trying to talk over the band) Holly, I'm frightened!  I'm--After they sing... they're gonna take hostages!  Now let's-- 
 (panicking) Don't, no, please.  Will you-- No, don't... 
 (shaking his head) I don't.  No.  No. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) But, no, you've been doing that all night!  You're gonna...you're gonna burn a hole in your... You're gonna develop a third nostril!  Really, (putting his hand on Holly's shoulder) don't, please. 
 Can we, can we go? 
 (touching his ear in pain) My--uh... 
 Not when they're sung by extraterrestrials. 
 I can't understand you.  Your sisters, both sisters have such good taste in music.  I don't know where you went, went wrong. 
 Can I take you someplace to hear something nice? 
 Now come on, you're be--, 'cause you're being angry at me. 
 (singing) "Why am I Just as reckless as a child? Why am I Like a racehorse running wild? Why am I In a state of ecstasy? The reason is 'cause something's Happened to me I'm in love again And the spring is comin'..." 
 (singing) "I'm in love again Hear my heart strings strummin' I'm in love again And the hymn they're hummin' Is those cuddle-up huddle-up blues I'm in love again And I can't rise above it..." 
 (singing, continuing) "I'm in love again And I love, love, love it." 
 (gesturing) Well, if you didn't like it, you didn't like it, but you didn't have to talk while the guy was singing. 
 (gesturing) Yeah, that's tough!  You don't deserve Cole Porter.  You should stay with those groups that look like they're gonna stab their mother! 
 And you don't have to snort cocaine at the table all the time!  What do you, what do you do?  Carry a kilo around in your purse? 
 Jesus... (waving his arm and whistling for a taxi) I'm glad Hannah got us together. You know, she's got a great instinct for people.  Really. 
 (overlapping) Yeah.  Me, too. 
 (overlapping) Right.  Yeah.  I had a... 
 (continuing) ...I had a great time tonight, really.  It was like the Nuremberg Trials. 
 (V.O.) Yeah, it was quite an evening. Holly with her cocaine... (chuckling) She should have been wearing a gold shovel around her neck.  Tch, she was polymorphously insensitive, I think. (smacking his lips) Too bad, too... 'cause, you know, I always had a little crush on her. 
 (to her adopted children, holding the camera) Oh, you just have to read the instructions.  I mean, you just set one of these things and you can take, you can take pictures underwater. 
 1 (overlapping) Can I try it? 
 (handing him the camera) Sure!  Yeah.  When we get to the country, we'll try it in the lake. 
 1 Okay. 
 (resting her chin in her hands) Okay? 
 2 (overlapping) Can I go? 
 1 (overlapping) Yeah. 
 (nodding) Yeah!  Okay. 
 (after a beat) Are you in a bad mood? 
 (shaking his head slightly) I don't know.  Um...I'm just antsy. 
 (intensely) Yes.  I know.  The last few weeks, you haven't been yourself.  And tonight at, tonight at dinner, you, you were kind of curt with me. 
 (looking down at his hands) Was I? 
 Yes, you were.  A-and when I, when I brought up the idea of having a baby, you just, you jumped down my throat. 
 (shaking his head) Well, I-I don't think it's a very good idea. 
 Why not? 
 (edgily) Because it's the last thing in the world we need right now. 
 Why do you say that?  Is there something wrong? 
 I don't know. 
 Well, tell me.  Should I be worried? 
 But, you got four children! 
 I want one with you. 
 Well...I-I think we should wait till things settle. 
 But what do, what do you-- (stuttering) what's that mean?  W-w-we've been, we've been married for four years. How settled can things get? 
 (gesturing) You know, y-you have some very set plans on how your life should be structured.  A-a house, uh, kids, certain schools, a h--, a home in Connecticut.  I-it's all very...preconceived. 
 (shaking her head) Yeah, but I...uh--I thought you needed that.  When-when-when we met, you said your life was chaos. 
 I-I-I know, but there's got to be some give and take. 
 Oh, let's not--I, I don't know what the hell I'm talking about. 
 (reacting) Are you angry with me? 
 No! 
 Do you feel, um...are you disenchanted with our marriage? 
 (pointing at Hannah) I didn't say that. 
 Are you in love with someone else? 
 (angrily) My God!  Wha-what is this?  The Gestapo?  No. 
 (turning to look at him) Well, what?  What, wh-what are you not telling me? 
 (gesturing and pointing) What kind of interrogation... Su- supposing I said yes?  I-I-I am disenchanted.  I am in love with someone else. 
 Are you? 
 (staring at Hannah for a beat before answering her) No! (gesturing) But you keep asking these, these awful questions.  My God, it's-it's like you want me to say yes! 
 (gesturing) What, you, of c-- What are you talking about?  Of course not.  I'd be destroyed! 
 (V.O.) For Chrissakes, stop torturing her. Tell her you want out and get it over with.  You're in love with her sister.  You didn't do it on purpose.  Be honest.  It's always the best way. 
 (softly) Look, can I help you?  If you're suffering over something, will you share it with me? 
 Hannah, you know how much I love you. (kissing her on the forehead) I ought to have my head examined. I don't deserve you. 
 (overlapping, turning to look at Holly) Oh, no, not at all. 
 (looking at the dress) Well, I, I really like that.  I think that's a pretty color on you. 
 (playfully hitting Holly's arm) Nuh-uh...but I think it's great.  I can't wait to meet him. 
 (interrupting, looking through the rack) Oh-oh. HOLLY (overlapping) ...and his wife's, uh, in and out of institutions.  She's schizophrenic. 
 (overlapping) Oooo. 
 (overlapping, looking up at Holly) Oh? 
 (interrupting, glancing at her sister for a moment with amazement) You found all this, all this out on one date? 
 Singing? 
 (walking around the rack to Holly, still surprised) Really? 
 (overlapping, shaking her head) Well, no...I-I know, I just, uh... No, I-I, eh, you know, I, I didn't, I didn't know you sung. 
 (gesturing, shaking her head) No!  No, I, eh, it's just that they sing. 
 (realizing she's hurt Holly, reacting) Ohh! 
 (hanging the blouse back on the rack) I know, no-- (chuckling) I know. 
 (interrupting, touching her sister's shoulder) No, I'm sorry.  No, I didn't mean that.  No, I didn't mean that. 
 (nodding as she looks around the store, pulling up her shoulder bag strap) Uh-huh. 
 (putting her hand on Holly's shoulder) No, I didn't, I, that's no.  No, I- I-I, no, I-I just... (gesturing) hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know.  You know, you know how you take... 
 (continuing, looking at some clothes hanging beneath the table) ...every, eh, single rejection as- as-as a...a confirmation that you have no talent, or something? 
 (overlapping, looking at the clothes) I hope. 
 (looking at Holly, reacting) What?  You don't, don't be so sensitive.  Can't I say anything? 
 (overlapping, reacting to her sister's outburst) Okay! (looking at her sister) Okay.  I-- What happened?  You know, we were having a really nice time, a-and suddenly, everything went to bad feeling. 
 (gesturing) Look, everything's going your way. 
 (offscreen) Thank you. 
 (offscreen) Thank you. 
 (offscreen) It was very nice. 
 #1 (offscreen, overlapping) Terrific. 
 (offscreen, overlapping the executives' chatter) April Knox? 
 (singing) "Someday When I'm awfully low When the world is cold I will get a glow Just thinking of you And the way you look Tonight..." 
 (sighing) Oh, I'm just glad we have a catering job this week.  I'm real low on money. 
 Oh, uh, listen, David called me up. 
 (gesturing) Uh, David called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. (chuckling) I didn't know what to say. 
 No, he called late last night. 
 (chuckling, gesturing) He wants to take me to see Rigoletto. 
 Well, I-I-I didn't know what to say. First I said no, but then, he pressed it.  He said, uh, he'd taken you once and he really wanted to invite me. 
 (gesturing) I know.  I said that, but... (shrugging) he said it was something he really felt like doing. 
 Look, it's just an evening at the opera.  Did I, I-I do wrong in accepting? 
 (continuing) Huh? 
 (gesturing) Now why do you think that you would like to convert to Catholicism? 
 Well, uh, because, y-you know, I gotta have something to believe in, otherwise life is just meaningless. 
 (pacing behind his desk and gesturing) I understand.  But why did you make the decision to choose the Catholic faith? 
 (gesturing) Tch.  Well, y-you know...first of all, because it's a very beautiful religion.  It's very well structured. Now I'm talking now, incidentally, about the-the, uh, against-school- prayer, pro-abortion, anti-nuclear wing. 
 (offscreen) So at the moment you don't believe in God. 
 (offscreen) No.  A-a-and I-I want to.  You know, I'm-I'm willing to do anything. I'll, you know, I'll dye Easter eggs if it works. (walking over to Father Flynn and sitting down in an adjacent chair) I-I need some evidence.  I gotta have some proof.  Uh, you know, i- i-if I can't believe in God (gesturing, his raincoat in his lap) then I don't think life is worth living. 
 (stopping his tea pouring) It means making a very big leap. 
 (nodding, fiddling with his raincoat) Yes, well, can-can you help me? 
 (crying) Why?  Oh, my God! 
 (overlapping and gesturing) I don't understand. (turning to his offscreen father) I thought that you would be happy. 
 (offscreen) How can we be happy? 
 (following his father) Well, because I never thought of God in my life.  Now I'm giving it serious thought. 
 (offscreen, in the kitchen) But Catholicism?  Why not your own people? 
 (gesturing at the kitchen door to his offscreen father) Because I got off to a wrong foot with my own thing, you know.  B-b- b-but I need a dramatic change in my life. 
 (offscreen) You're gonna believe in Jesus Christ? 
 (gesturing) I know it sounds funny, but I'm gonna try. 
 (offscreen) But why?  We raised you as a Jew. 
 (shrugging) So, just 'cause I was born that way... You know, I'm old enough to make a mature decision. 
 But why Jesus Christ?  Why, for instance, shouldn't you become a Buddhist? 
 (gesturing) A Bud--?  That's totally alien to me.  Look, you're getting on in years, right?  Aren't you afraid of dying? 
 (offscreen) Why should I be afraid? 
 (loudly gesturing) Oh! 'Cause you won't exist! 
 (offscreen) So? 
 (gesturing) That thought doesn't terrify you? 
 (waving his arm) Who thinks about such nonsense? Now I'm alive.  When I'm dead, I'll be dead. 
 (following his father, gesturing) I don't understand.  Aren't you frightened? 
 (offscreen) Of what?  I'll be unconscious. 
 (turning and walking down the hallway) Yeah, I know.  But never to exist again! 
 (offscreen) How do you know? 
 Well, it certainly doesn't look promising. 
 (offscreen) Who knows what'll be? 
 (gesturing with his hands full) I'll either be unconscious or I won't.  If not, I'll deal with it then.  I'm not gonna worry now about what's gonna be when I'm unconscious. 
 (pounding on the door) Mom, come out! 
 (offscreen in the bathroom) Of course there's a God, you idiot! You don't believe in God? 
 (sighing) But if there's a God, then wh-why is there so much evil in the world? (shrugging) What-- Just on a simplistic level. Why-why were there Nazis? 
 (offscreen in the bathroom) Tell him, Max. 
 (offscreen) How the hell do I know why there were Nazis?  I don't know how the can opener works. 
 (overlapping Hannah's gasp) Hi. 
 Hi.  Where's Holly? 
 (overlapping) Hi.  She's auditioning for a television commercial.  She said she's gonna be a little late. 
 (sighing) Oh, yeah?  How's she doing? 
 (following Hannah through the restaurant's doors) Oh, God, you know Holly.  When she's depressed, she's manic.  I think it was a good idea that we invited her to lunch. 
 (pulling off her scarf, still on the subject of Holly) I hope you tell her it was your idea... 
 Why? 
 (overlapping) ...'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so defensive. 
 (unbuttoning her coat) Oh, Hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's all. 
 (offscreen) So how are you? 
 Oh, me, I'm okay. 
 (offscreen) Do you miss Frederick? 
 No. 
 (offscreen) I can't believe Elliot and I can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know-- 
 (interrupting, her voice slightly higher-pitched as she takes off her coat) How are you? 
 (offscreen) I'm okay. 
 (overlapping) You know, how's everything?  You doing okay?  How's Frederick? (laughing) I mean, Elliot. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Y-yeah. 
 (continuing) Oh, he's fine.  He's-he's, I guess he's fine.  I don't know. (shaking her head, her arms crossed) He's been kinda moody lately, the last few months. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Really? 
 Yeah.  I-I don't know what's wrong with him.  He's just...kind of distant and difficult. 
 (offscreen) Oh... 
 (overlapping, gesturing) I've been trying to talk to him about it.  He says everything's fine, but I don't know. Automatically, you know, I leap to the worst conclusions. 
 (offscreen) Like what? 
 (gesturing) I mean, I don't know, he's seeing someone else or something, but... 
 (walking back onscreen without her coat, reacting) Oh, no!  I mean, everyone thinks things like that. 
 (turning, to Holly) Hey, hi! 
 (overlapping, leaning against the coatcheck wall) Hi. 
 (reacting) Awwww... 
 (helping Holly with her coat) Boy-- 
 Oh, what do they know? 
 April? 
 (reacting to Holly's news) Oh, gosh. 
 Hmm.  I never trusted April, you know.  She has eyes in the back of her head. 
 (overlapping) Hmm. 
 Oh, God... 
 (shaking her head) Well, that...th-that's fine. 
 (offscreen) Well, that-that's good.  It just, uh...it just seems to me that-that six months or a year, if-if you spent it more productively... 
 Well, I don't know.  We'd uh, uh, um... Didn't Mom mention there was something...something at the Museum of Broadcasting? 
 No.  She, didn't she say it was, um...she said it was in the publicity department.  That-that can lead to other things. 
 (offscreen) I'm not!  I'm not!  I'm trying to be helpful.  A person doesn't just say one day, "Okay, now-now I'm finished as an actress.  Now I'm a writer."  I mean-- 
 (shaking her head, unable to take much more) Oh, please!  We all came to have lunch, didn't we? 
 (trying to alleviate the tension) Boy...Holly...Holly. 
 (offscreen) What do--?  You're being ridiculous. 
 (overlapping, reacting) You are, Holly.  Stop it. 
 (offscreen) How? 
 Not so!  No.  I think I've been very supportive.  I've...I try to give you honest, constructive advice. 
 (overlapping) I'm-I'm always happy to help you financially.  I think I've gone out of my way to-to introduce you to interesting single men.  There's nothing I would-- 
 You're too demanding. 
 (offscreen) You're crazy!  That's not true. 
 (interrupting angrily, looking as if she's about to cry) Oh, will you stop attacking Hannah?! 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Oh, now-- (stuttering) 
 (interrupting, shaking her head) She's going through a really rough time right now. 
 (sobbing and gesturing) You know, you've been picking on her ever since she came in here. Now just leave her alone for a while!  I'm just suffocating. (sniffing back her tears) 
 (offscreen) Look. (onscreen, as the camera circles around the table) Listen.  Listen. (tapping Holly on her shoulder and gesturing) You want to write?  Write. 
 (flinging her hands) Write!  Let's just not talk about it anymore. 
 (shaking her head) Take...take a year.  Take six months.  Whatever you want.  Who knows?  Maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play. 
 (to Lee) What's the matter?  What's the matter with you? (offscreen again as the camera circles back to Lee) You look pale.  You okay? 
 (overlapping, nodding and stuttering) I'm-I'm okay.  Yeah, I-I-I, you know, I...I'm just, um, I got dizzy all of a sudden.  I'm-I'm...I have a headache. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Yeah? 
 (still rubbing her forehead, looking down at the menu) I think we need to eat. 
 (offscreen) I-I can't seem to take action. I'm-I'm like, uh, Hamlet unable to kill his uncle. 
 (face offscreen) I want Lee, but I can't harm Hannah. And in no other area am I a procrastinator. 
 (V.O.) Meanwhile...Lee has no direction. She's taking courses at Columbia...but just randomly. 
 (V.O.) I try not to call her, but then she calls me and then...I call and...we try to resist meeting, but...once in a while we meet.  Sometimes we argue because I can't break up my marriage.  Sometimes we wind up making love and...we both feel terrible. 
 But it's my fault. 
 (face offscreen) For all my education, accomplishments, and so-called wisdom...I can't fathom my own heart. 
 What makes you interested in becoming a Hare Krishna? 
 (gesturing, walking onscreen) Well, I'm not saying that I want to join or anything, but...but I know you guys believe in reincarnation, you know, so it interests me. 
 Yeah, well, what's your religion? 
 (gesturing) Well, I was born Jewish, you know, but, uh, but last winter I tried to become a Catholic and...it didn't work for me.  I-I studied and I tried and I gave it everything, but, you know, Catholicism for me was die now, pay later, you know. And I just couldn't get with it. And I, and I wanted to, you know. I-- 
 (interrupting) You're afraid of dying? 
 (gesturing) Well...yeah, naturally.  Aren't you? I-- L-let me ask you, reincarnation, does that mean my soul would pass to another human being, or would I come back as a moose or an aardvark or something? 
 (handing some Krishna literature over the fence to Mickey) Take our literature... 
 (nodding, taking the material) Uh-huh. 
 ...read it over, and think about it. 
 (looking down at the material he's just received) Well, okay.  Thank you very much. 
 You're welcome.  Hare Krishna. 
 (V.O.) Who are you kidding?  You're gonna be a Krishna?  You're gonna shave your head and put on robes and dance around at airports?  You'll look like Jerry Lewis.  Oh, God, I'm so depressed. 
 (V.O.) The nights are really getting cooler.  Summer went so quickly. Soon it'll be fall. (walking to the beach and sitting down) My literature professor really likes me.  It was fun being out with him last night. (staring pensively at the water) Funny.  I feel like I'm betraying Elliot...but that's ridiculous. Why shouldn't I see Doug?  Elliot's not free. (pausing) Just go one step at a time.  Let's see what the next few months bring. 
 (gesturing) Now, here...here's a song that Norma sang on that trip we made up to the show in Buffalo.  And, oh, was she beautiful that night! 
 Come on. (laughing and touching Evan's shoulder) 
 (overlapping, to the woman) Thank you, honey. (putting his drink down on the piano) Oh, yes, you were, dear.  Don't you remember that night? (gesturing and pushing back some sheet music that was starting to fall) She was so beautiful...she was so beautiful that when men saw her walking along the streets, they'd drive their cars right up on the sidewalk. 
 (looking back at Norma) Isn't that right, honey, eh? 
 (tapping his shoulder) A slight exaggeration. 
 (overlapping Norma, laughing) I know. 
 (gesturing) But only slight. 
 (sipping his drink) You've been very cold to me tonight. 
 (glancing back at Elliot, then turning away) No. 
 Is something wrong? 
 (turning) Oh, not here. (touching Elliot's arm) There are too many people around. 
 (taking a bunch of celery out and slamming the refrigerator door) I'm real upset about what you wrote. 
 It's obviously based on Elliot and me. 
 (angrily) No, not "Oh, so loosely"!  Real specifically!  Is that how you see us? 
 (interrupting) Can I, can I not accept gestures and feelings from people?  Do I, do I put people off? 
 (yelling) No, it's real exact!  The-the situations, the dialogue, everything. It's-it's full of intimate details between Elliot and me! Which I don't, I don't see how you could even possibly know about.  A conversation we once had about adoption? 
 I don't see how Lee could know about these things.  I don't!  I don't tell her everything. 
 (turning to look at Holly) You make it sound like, you know, I have no needs or something.  You think I'm too self-sufficient? 
 (walking out of the pantry to the food- laden table) You're grateful, but you resent me. 
 (gesturing) Yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business...which I don't see how you could know about in such detail. How does Lee know about these things?  How?  They're private! 
 (with her back to the camera) I don't...I don't want to bother everyone. 
 (turning to look at Holly) I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you. 
 (offscreen) It's over, Elliot.  I don't know how to make it any clearer.  It's over.  I can't see you anymore. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) Uh... (onscreen, gesturing) I-I-I know.  I deserve this. 
 (touching her chest) Look, I'm just as much at fault. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) If-if-if you can believe I have such feelings for you! 
 I've got to be honest with you.  I met someone else.  I've met someone else. (turning and walking away from Elliot) I...I told you I wasn't going to wait forever. 
 (offscreen) But it hasn't been forever. (walking over to Lee at the just-closed door) 
 (gesturing) It's been nearly a year since our first time and you're still married to my sister, which...I now realize is fine because you're probably much more in love with her than you know. 
 (shaking his head) Yeah, but we-we made so many plans. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) Yeah.  Uh, well, sure we did.  An- an-and in a way you led me on, because I truly believed you were unhappy with Hannah.  Otherwise, I would never have let myself be drawn in.  I was very weak.  So were you.  Now I've met someone else. 
 (to Mavis) Dinner soon? 
 About fifteen minutes. 
 (nodding) Uh-huh.  Good. 
 And you're in love overnight? 
 I care a great deal about him, yes. 
 (trying to put his arm around Lee) Lee... 
 (pulling back, flinging her hands) Ah, it's over!  Elliot, I mean it. It's over! 
 (holding the door, half in and half out of the kitchen) Sweetheart, I loved your script.  I thought it was so clever. 
 (gesturing) I particularly liked the character of the mother.  Just a boozy old flirt with a filthy mouth. 
 I'm so proud! 
 (raising his bottle of beer to the children) Now here's a toast to Thanksgiving, all right? 
 Are we supposed to have beer? Yeeeah! 
 (overlapping the children's squeals of delight) Let me at it! (to one of the little boys) How's that, Fletcher? 
 (to the little girl) Doll?  To Thanksgiving.  Here's a little toast, doll. (clinking glasses) Come on.  Bottoms up. 
 (to the offscreen Elliot) Have you been talking to Holly or Lee about us?  About our-our personal life? 
 (offscreen) Me?  Of course not. 
 There's things Holly wrote about in her script about us that are so...personal they could only have come from you. 
 (offscreen) Look, I've got a splitting headache and I don't like being accused. 
 (gesturing) I'm not accusing.  I'm asking.  Do you...do you find me too...too giving? (closing the door of the bathroom slightly so only she is seen on the screen) Too-too-too competent?  Too-too, I don't know, disgustingly perfect or something? 
 No. 
 (following Elliot and gesturing, talking to his back) Well, what is it then?  What?  Eh, what's come between us?  How have I alienated you? 
 (taking a bottle of aspirin from the cabinet and walking back to the sink, gesturing) Hannah, my head is throbbing. 
 (gesturing) You never want to talk about it. I-- Every time I bring it up, you- you change the subject.  What is it? Do you-- We're communicating less and less.  You sleep with me less and less. 
 (angrily turning to Hannah and pointing as she shouts) Hannah, I am very mixed up!  Now please! 
 (reacting, her voice trembling slightly, and gesturing) Do you talk to Holly or Lee behind my back?  Do you?  You must.  They- they seem to know so much about us. 
 (walking towards a towel rack and gesturing) Well, maybe I've asked advice once or twice or-or made a joke. 
 (gesturing) Well, what do you do?  Do-do-do you talk to Holly, or Lee, or what?  Do you, do you, do you phone them? 
 (whirling around to face Hannah, snapping) Leave me alone, can you?! 
 (continuing in a lower tone) Jesus, I've told you.  I need someone I can matter to. 
 (reacting, near tears) You matter to me.  Completely. 
 (pausing, his voice rising again) It's hard to be around someone who gives so much and-and needs so little in return! 
 (gesturing, pleading) But, look...I-I have enormous needs. 
 (shouting) Well, I can't see them, and neither can Lee or Holly! 
 (offscreen) It's so pitch-black tonight.  I feel lost. 
 (offscreen) You're not lost. 
 I love you so much. 
 (gesturing) Mmm, I don't know if you remember me, but we had the worst night of my life together. 
 (overlapping) Yes, you do recall, right? 
 (gesturing) I was walking past and I saw you in here... 
 ...and I thought I'd come in and...and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh... 
 (overlapping, smiling) Oh, that's putting it mildly.  We did everything but exchange gunshots. 
 Good.  How are you? 
 (overlapping) You look wonderful. 
 (overlapping, scratching his head) Yeah, really.  You do.  You do. 
 It was a terrible evening. 
 (overlapping, gesturing) Remember slamming the cab door in my face and.. (touching his nose as Holly laughs) you know, it came very dangerously close to emasculating my nose in a... (touching his nose again) 
 (continuing) ...in a really horrible way. 
 (overlapping) You look wonderful.  You do.  What happened to you? 
 (touching Holly's shoulder) Well, I hope you've changed. 
 (overlapping) I hope so for your sake, because, uh, your personality left something to be desired... 
 (continuing) ...namely a personality. 
 So how are you? 
 You didn't answer my question. What are you doing? 
 (interrupting) Well... 
 (overlapping) Yeah?  Is that an embarrassing question?  Should I have not asked it? 
 Are you, are you out of work or something? 
 Have you? 
 Well, that's interesting.  Wh-what kind of stuff? 
 (overlapping) No, you can tell me. 
 No, I am.  I am. 
 Nobody ever said it. 
 (overlapping) This is it.  Yeah.  This is really-- HOLLY (interrupting, turning from the record bins to look at Mickey) Well, wo-would you be willing to-to read it?  Something...that I wrote? 
 (nodding his head) Well, yes, I would if, uh, if it would mean anything to you.  I don't know why it would. 
 (overlapping) You've always hated my taste in the past. 
 You have. 
 (chuckling, gesturing) I'm not anymore.  I haven't, I haven't been in television for a year. 
 (overlapping) I've done no television whatsoever. No. 
 (offscreen, continuing) I may, I may have to get back into it, 'cause my accountant says that I'm running out of dollars. But...but, um, no, I haven't, I just sort of dropped out for a year... 
 (offscreen, overlapping) ...which is a long, dull story and I won't get into it.  But-- 
 I'm-- Yes.  Yes, I'm fine.  I'm fine.  How are you? 
 What...what about your script? (face offscreen obscured by the sign) So what's it about? 
 (face offscreen) You have to remember, we-we-we didn't agree on one thing. 
 Hmm. 
 Yeah. 
 (overlapping) Oh, well, God, I can imagine what you wrote. 
 Really? 
 Well, you know, I-I-I...you know, if you want me to, I'll read it. 
 (chuckling) Come over tomorrow and read it to me? 
 You must be joking.  I've been doing all my own reading since I was forty...you know. 
 (laughing) Well, what about me? 
 (overlapping, gesturing) I should have kept going.  I-I have a sneaking feeling, a nagging sensation I should've kept walking and... 
 (continuing, looking at Holly) ...and not begun this conversation. 
 (shaking his head, shrugging) It's great.  I swea-- I'm-- I'm, tch, I'm speechless.  I was...I was not in the mood to listen to this thing now. (sighing) I don't know what to say.  I'm moved and I laughed and I-- Uh, I, you know, I was on the edge of my seat.  I just think it's wonderful! I'm, I'm totally...stunned.  This is not an insult.  I'm amazed that you can... (sighing) It was-- I just thought it was great. 
 (grunting and gesturing) Yes!  I was abso-- And...w- what...made you think of that climax scene where the, where the... architect is walking home with his actress girlfriend and-and the ex- wife who's schizophrenic jumps out of the bushes and stabs him to death? 
 (gesturing) Well, it was just fabulous!  I'm, I, you know... 
 (gesturing) I thought it was wonder-- There's maybe one or two things in there that I would do differently myself, but... 
 (continuing) ...but who cares?  It was just-- (gesturing) It was fabulous. 
 (smiling and shaking his head) Fabulous, I mean it!  I'm so impressed. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) I am.  You-you made my day. 
 (offscreen) It was just great.  Uh, I was all set...I was set to be bored stiff. 
 (offscreen) I-I would love to talk to you about, uh, that script.  I-I, you know, I think maybe that we could do something with it. 
 (offscreen) Oh, who cares? 
 Well... (chuckling) I'll tell you. (sighing) One day about a month ago... 
 (V.O.) ...I really hit bottom.  You know, I just felt that in a Godless universe, I didn't want to go on living.  Now I happen to own this rifle... (coughing) 
 (V.O.) ...which I loaded, believe it or not, and pressed it to my forehead. And I remember thinking, at the time, I'm gonna kill myself.  Then I thought...what if I'm wrong? What if there is a God?  I mean, after all, nobody really knows that. 
 (V.O.) But then I thought, no.  You know, maybe is not good enough.  I want certainty or nothing.  And I remember very clearly the clock was ticking, and I was sitting there frozen, with the gun to my head, debating whether to shoot. 
 (V.O.) All of a sudden, the gun went off. 
 (V.O.) I had been so tense, my finger had squeezed the trigger inadvertently... 
 #1 (offscreen, overlapping) What's happening?  Wh-wh-what's going on? 
 (V.O.) (continuing) ...but I was perspiring so much, the gun had slid off my forehead and missed me. 
 #2 (offscreen, overlapping) I don't know.  I heard a gun.  Is everything all right? 
 (V.O.) And suddenly, neighbors were, were, pounding on the door, and-and I don't know, the whole scene was just pandemonium.  And, uh, you know, and I-I-I-I-I ran to the door. 
 (V.O.) I-I-I-I didn't know what to say. You know, I was, I was embarrassed and confused, and my-my-my mind was r-r-racing a mile a minute... 
 (V.O.) ...and I-I jus knew one thing. 
 (V.O.) I...I-I-I-I had to get out of that house.  I had to just get out in the fresh air and-and clear my head. And I remember very clearly.  I walked the streets.  I walked and I walked.  I-I didn't know what was going through my mind.  It all seemed so violent and un-unreal to me.  And I wandered... 
 (V.O.) ...for a long time on the Upper West Side, you know, an-and it must have been hours!  You know, my, my feet hurt.  My head was, was pounding, and, and I had to sit down.  I went into a movie house. I-I didn't know what was playing or anything. 
 (V.O.) I just, I just needed a moment to gather my thoughts and, and be logical, and, and put the world back into rational perspective. 
 (V.O.) And I went upstairs to the balcony, and I sat down (sighing) and, you know, the movie was a-a-a film that I'd seen many times in my life since I was a kid, an-and I always u-uh, loved it.  And, you know, I'm, I'm watching these people up on the screen, and I started getting hooked o-on the film, you know? 
 (V.O.) ...And I started to feel how can you even think of killing yourself? I mean, isn't it so stupid?  I mean, l-look at all the people up there on the screen.  You know, they're real funny, and, and what if the worst is true? 
 (V.O.) What if there's no God, and you only go around once and that's it? Well, you know, don't you want to be part of the experience?  You know, what the hell, it-i-it's not all a drag.  And I'm thinking to myself, geez, I should stop ruining my life... 
 (V.O.) ...searching for answers I'm never gonna get, and just enjoy it while it lasts.  And...you know... 
 (V.O.) ...after, who knows?  I mean, you know, maybe there is something. Nobody really knows.  I know, I know "maybe" is a very slim reed to hang your whole life on, but that's the best we have.  And...then, I started to sit back, and I actually began to enjoy myself. 
 (mumbling) Oh, yeah?  What? 
 Oh, don't be silly!  No!  Don't be ridiculous. 
 I was the, I was... You know, it was my fault.  I-- (inhaling) 
 So, so you want to go out to dinner again?  I mean, is that, is that... Have, you have any interest in that, or... 
 (overlapping) Do you?  I mean, are you, are you, are you, are you free this evening? 
 (holding a drink) I want ice!  Who's got some-- (pointing to an ice bucket on the table) Oh, there it is. 
 (offscreen, overlapping) It's on the table, Dad. 
 (putting ice into his glass) Hey, where's Holly?  She's late. 
 (walking briskly to the sink) Hey, Hannah, did you read that last thing Holly wrote?  It was great. She's really developed. 
 (offscreen, in another area of the kitchen) I know, she...she really writes good dialogue. 
 (turning to the offscreen Hannah) Yeah.  I'll get some ice. 
 Hannah, can I tell everybody you're going to play Desdemona? 
 (taking a big sip of her wine) Oh, Mom, it's only television. (beginning to mash some sweet potatoes in a bowl on the table) 
 (gesturing with the bottle) Yes, but it's public television. And to me, Shakespeare doesn't get any greater than Othello.  You with some big black stud!  I love it! 
 (gasping and laughing) Oh, Mom! 
 (overlapping, reacting) Oh, honey! 
 (V.O.) Oh, Lee, you are something. 
 (V.O.) You look very beautiful.  Marriage agrees with you.  Everything that happened between us (pausing) seems more and more hazy. 
 (V.O.) I acted like such a fool.  I don't know what came over me.  That complete conviction that I couldn't live without you. 
 (V.O.) What did I put us both through? And Hannah... 
 (V.O.) (continuing) ...who as you once said, I love much more than I realized. 
 #1 Hi! 
 (overlapping, talking at once) No! 
 #1 (overlapping) You look lovely. 
 #2 (overlapping, hugging Holly) Hello, darling. 
 #2 (overlapping) Good to see you.  Same to you. 
 (smacking his lips) Now don't get nervous.  It's just your husband. 
 Hi. (kissing Holly) How you doin'? 
 When'd you get here? 
 Oh. (kissing her again) You look so beautiful. 
 (kissing Holly's neck) You know, I was talking with your father before...and I was telling him that (kissing) it's ironic.  I-I used to always have Thanksgiving with Hannah...and I never thought (kissing) that I could love anybody else. (kissing) And here it is, years later and I'm married to you (kissing) and completely in love with you. (kissing) The heart is a very, very resilient little muscle. (kissing) It really is.  I... (kissing) It'd made a great story, I think. A guy marries one sister... (kissing) doesn't work out... (kissing) many years later... (kissing) he winds up (inhaling) married to the other sister.  It's, you know, it's a... 
 (overlapping) I don't know how you're gonna top that. 
 
