 
 
 lies on a couch near the window. He stands up suddenly and looks out the window. AL STUMP, 40, is sharply dressed -- tie, dress shirt, cufflinks. He's staring at something. 
 The muse has   not descended, Lucille. (off   her silence) The muse has   not descended. (off   her silence) God damn it,   Lucille, you hear me? 
 The muse has not descended. 
 Yes! The muse has left me stranded here like a beached whale -- only one phrase, one word, from finishing the greatest essay I've ever written! One word, the right word -- Flaubert called it 'le mot juste' -- I ever tell you that? Lucille is a longsuffering saint. 
 'Le mot juste' -- the exact right word the writer needs to tell his story. Yessir, you've mentioned it. 
 Hemingway, Faulkner, Joyce -- they all searched for 'le mot juste' until they cried, until they bled... 
 Yessir. 
 What is this essay about again? 
 Fishing. 
 I mean what is it really about? 
 You said it was about the quote unquote primal issues of survival, man against nature, etcetera -- that's what you said. 
 Ohyeah... so... we end the essay with... (MORE) 
 STUMP (CONT'D) (dictating) 'The tarpon leaps shimmering into the late cross light of the keys, a primeval moment frozen in... (hesitates) ... frozen in'... 
 Shimmering tarpon -- very good, Mr. Stump... (beat) ... 'frozen in' what? 
 (patiently) I don't know, Lucille, that's what the Muse will tell me if she ever descends. (considering) ... 'frozen in'... 
 Yes? Yes? Just a minute, I'll see if he's available. (covers phone) It's your wife -- are you and she speaking again? Stump's cavalier attitude stops cold.     He starts to reach for the phone, then stops. 
 I dunno.   How does she sound? 
 Don't ask me to interpret. 
 Tell her... tell her... I'll talk... no... tell her I'm out -- I'll call her later... (serious, dark) God damn it. 
 (on phone) Apparently he's out, Mrs. Stump -- I'll have him call you back. She hangs up.    The mood has shifted. 
 I need a drink. 
 What about 'le mot juste,' Mr. Stump? 
 (snaps) Fuck 'le mot juste,' Lucille! Finish the damn thing yourself. 'The primeval moment is frozen in' whatever the hell you want it to be. Did you know that James Joyce let his secretary -- none other than Samuel Beckett -- revise and edit Molly's solliloquy in Ulysses? You're my Beckett -- I give you 'le mot juste!' Just get the damn thing in the mail so I can get paid. 
 Problems with the Mrs.? 
 I don't know.    I need a drink. He grabs his hat and coat and we begin hearing the number one hit song of 1960, PERCY FAITH'S schmaltzy recording of "A Summer Place." CUT TO: 
 Hey, Stumpy... Stump addresses the sportswriters at the table as if they were a small audience in a lounge. 
 Awright, awright... how do you get five old ladies to say 'fuck?' 
 (stumped) Jeez, I dunno, how? Etc... 
 Yell 'bingo.' Stump laughs. The others groan. REYNALDO, 40's, black, speaks up. He's one of the regulars. 
 Okay, I got one -- (beat) A drunk is taking a piss in front of a bar, a bus drives by, real fast right along the curb, and knocks his thing off. Drunk picks up his thing, puts it in his pocket, goes into a bar, reaches into his pocket and puts his thing on the bar. 'Look't that,' he says, 'bus knocked my thing off.' Bartender says, 'that ain't your thing -- that's a cigar butt.' (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 REYNALDO (CONT'D) Drunk reaches into his other pocket and slaps another thing on the bar. 'There,' he says, 'bus knocked my thing off.' Bartender says, 'you're drunk and that ain't your thing either. That's another cigar butt.' (beat) Drunk looks down at both cigar butts and back up at the bartender and says, 'God damn it, I mushta smoked my dick.' Everyone roars, even Stump. But Frank, as usual, is hyper serious and never quite gets into the revelry. 
 Amidst this levity, gentlemen, I have some real concerns. Mark my words, people will look back on this year and say that 1960 was the year that Western Civilization began its downward trajectory. 
 You need to get laid, Frank. 
 Guys, guys, c'mon... do you really think things are as good as they used to be? You think Jack Kennedy is qualified to be President? 
 Kennedy may not be qualified, but -- Jackie's a babe -- and that's good enough for me. 
 They're a happily married couple and that oughta stand for something these days... 
 Speaking of being happily married, Al, are you and your old lady still having problems? 
 Oh no, the wife and I are all patched up -- doin' fantastic. 
 Good to hear... awright... way to go, Stumpy... (Etc.) 
 I mean look at us -- we call ourselves writers but we just watch ballgames and get drunk a lot. You call that writing? 
 Yes I do. 
 In the department store of life, sports is the toy department -- so what? 
 Yeah, besides, Alan here's writing a serious novel, aren't ya? 
 Yeah, well I haven't started yet but I'm gonna. I've been busy. 
 You guys are pathetic. Ya write for one reason -- a paycheck. 
 More art was created for money than for passion. Take your platitudes and shove 'em, Frank. I'm gonna write a novel too, someday. 
 (cynically) The Great American Novel, I suppose? 
 It could come from my pen. 
 You're a barbershop writer, Al -- you write sugar-coated pieces for guys to skim when they're waiting for a haircut! 
 Awright, that's it! Let's go! Settle this right here! Stump raises his fists as if to fight; Frank responds. 
 Hey! A scuffle breaks out, a lot of posturing, feinting, but they're all too chicken to do anything. Nobody wants to fight. A PHONE RINGS at the bar. The bartender answers the phone, shouts at the obnoxious sportwriters. 
 Stump!   For you. Stump goes to the phone, interrupting his own "fight." 
 (to Frank) Phone call saved your ass. Stump grabs the phone, covering an ear to hear better. 
 (on phone) Yeah... yeah... who?... no... you're kidding?... when? Stump hangs up the phone and turns. His face registers shock, or more precisely, bewilderment and wonder. 
 Hey... (as they ignore him) Shut up! 
 Cobb wants to see me. 
 Cobb who? 
 Ty Cobb!    How many Cobbs are there?! This news instantly sobers the room. 
 Ty Cobb?   I thought he was dead? 
 Not yet. He said he wants to tell me the real story of his life before he croaks. 
 You were just talking to Ty Cobb? 
 The Georgia Peach himself. This impresses the hell out of everyone in the room.           Even Stump is still a little dazed. 
 They say Cobb is crazy. The meanest sonofabitch who ever lived. 
 I heard he killed a man. 
 Maybe so, but -- he was the greatest baseball player of them all. 
 Yeah, the best, no one close, etc... 
 Listen, Al, be careful -- 
 I ain't gettin' my ass shot, don't worry... 
 No, not that -- the story. (beat) This is like Ivan the Terrible inviting somebody into the Czar's palace before he died. 
 Except Ivan was a nicer guy... (CONTINUED) 
 (concerned, earnest) Don't let Cobb bullshit you. This is your shot. This is all our shot. (as cronies agree) When does he want to see you? 
 Immediately. 
 (V.O.) I gathered all the film footage that existed on Cobb -- which wasn't much -- and rented the local theater for the afternoon... (beat) I, too, had thought that the great Ty Cobb had been dead for awhile... 
 (V.O.) This 1905 cameo of an 18-year-old youth shows a peaches-and-cream complexion and the piercing eyes of a lad who would become, etc... Onscreen (B&W) -- Cobb as a young ballplayer followed by images of Cobb's famous batting stance, Cobb clowning, etc. 
 (V.O.) His reputation as being difficult at best, psychotic at worst, preceded him. But if there was one thing I knew after all my years as a journalist covering politicians, celebrities, and sports heroes, it was this -- (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) The 'facts' -- and public perception of those 'facts' -- frequently bear little resemblance. Onscreen (B&W) -- Cobb in action -- His demon fury gives way to the fierce joy of his playing. He slashes a ball up the alley, turns first and never hesitates at second, and as the relay comes into third -- 
 (V.O.) One thing was beyond argument -- he was the most brilliant athlete of his time... perhaps of any time. (beat) I was determined to find out who was the real Ty Cobb. Cobb slides with spikes high and a cloud of dust. There is something thrilling and terrifying in the image. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) They said Cobb owned property all over the country, but in recent years had been staying in his hunting lodge at Lake Tahoe in the Sierra Nevadas. 
 (V.O.) Driving into the Sierras at night with winter coming on wasn't the smartest decision I'd ever made but it seemed better than being late for my first meeting with Cobb. First drops of rain begin hitting the windshield -- Stump hits the wiper button and the floppy blades begin ineffectively wiping the windshield. Stump struggles with his vision. 
 Shit... 
 Fill it up and replace the wiper blades. 
 You got it. 
 Colder than a witch's tit, eh? 
 It's just starting. We got three- four feet of snow another thousand feet up. Where ya going? Skiing? I hate skiing. 
 Actually, I'm going to meet Ty Cobb. 
 Cobb?! He stopped here for gas once, I asked him for an autograph for my boy and he told me to shove it where the sun don't shine. 
 I hear he's got a way with kids... 
 Hey, baby, it's me... (beat) Al... your husband... (beat) I'm up in the woods somewhere on assignment... (beat) Listen, sweetheart, listen -- nobody can love you the way I love you and I want you to take me back. I made a mistake. (listens) Okay, lots of mistakes. I know I'm not worthy. 
 Honey?   Sweetheart?   Baby? 
 (V.O.) I confess I was looking forward to seeing Cobb and being near his brilliance. My own life seemed on hold, somehow. Everyday churning out the same old articles, drinking at 4 in the afternoon with the same old guys, the same old excuses for not writing a novel, the same old confused marriages that we all needed and were trying to get out of at the same time... Cobb was a god whose brilliance, however difficult, could rub off on me. His problems were different than mine... 
 Fuck you, Mr. Cobb, I have too much dignity to spend another moment with you. I hope you die before the sun comes up and may you rot in hell! The man whirls and is shocked to see Stump standing there with his own suitcase. 
 Who are you? 
 I'm a writer. 
 You mean he actually found somebody to take the job? 
 Mr. Cobb? 
 Mr. Cobb? The silence is shattered by a SCRATCH, then VIOLIN MUSIC from upstairs. STATIC suggests a record is playing. 
 Hello?   Mr. Cobb? A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT -- Ripping through the door.       Stump is terrified -- he gasps for air. 
 Thank you very much, Mr. Cobb, but I don't need this job that bad. 
 Yes, Mr. Stump -- you do need this job that bad. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 COBB (CONT'D) (beat) Now come in here and meet the great Ty Cobb. (calmly) I won't hurt you. 
 On the violin -- Fritz Kreisler. I'm a great admirer of his. I'm also a great admirer of yours. 
 Thank you. 
 But you are a hopeless romantic and only a moderate success. 
 Sir, I am the most successful sportswriter in America and not merely a 'moderate success.' 
 Of course. (beat) Give me those pills over there. 
 That's an invitation to a testimonial dinner at the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. You're taking me there -- when is it? 
 (looking at the letter) A few weeks. 
 All the great ones will be there -- The great Mickey Cochrane will be there! Hornsby, Sisler, Ott, the Waner Brothers... we used to have some parties, Stump, I'll tell ya that right now... (beat) We can't forget. 
 I won't forget. 
 Look at me closely, Al... (with utmost sincerity) Lie after lie has been written about me -- my whole life I've been misunderstood. (beat) You're gonna tell the real story of Ty Cobb. 
 What's the 'real' story? Cobb climbs slowly out of bed.     His words are reasoned and not without passion. 
 That's why you're here. (beat) See, there's two kinds of writers. The kind that spin endless yarns about small subjects... that's you. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 COBB (CONT'D) (beat) Or... there's the kind with one great subject that consumes them forever. (beat) That could be you. Because I am that subject. Cobb hobbles to a table in front of a window. The table is covered with pills, bottles, needles, and booze. 
 (suddenly bellowing) Jameson! Get your ass up here! 
 You okay? 
 Mmmmmm... 
 JAMESON (MAN) Sir? 
 There's a small oil company near Bakersfield called Honolulu Oil, sitting near the Elk Hills Reserve... (beat) I want you to buy all the stock you can. 
 Honolulu Oil? 
 Getty is expanding in the west, looking for companies like that. I got a hunch... (beat) Stumpy, c'mere... Cobb picks up the revolver and holds it lovingly. Stump crosses and stands behind Cobb, sharing the view. 
 I can take that buck.     What'ya think? 
 With a pistol? No way. Cobb smiles and loads the revolver.       He pushes the window which swings slowly open. 
 (to Jameson) There's a board meeting of Coca-Cola in Georgia next week. Call them up and tell them I can't make it for medical -- (correcting himself) -- personal -- reasons... (beat) ... and sell all the 3-M stock we got. 
 Got him. 
 Like hell you did. 
 Right behind the ear. 
 You're full of shit. 
 Jameson? 
 If Mr. Cobb said he got him, then he got him. 
 You have no vision, Stump. A writer without vision is a waste of my time. I think I picked the wrong man. Cobb stumbles back into bed, somewhat exhausted by the ordeal. 
 And I think I better get back to San Francisco before the storm hits. I'll take care of these transactions, Mr. Cobb. And Jameson exits the room. 
 And I'll be leaving as well, sir, since you think I'm the wrong man for the job. 
 Shut up, Stump -- we both know that I'm your meal ticket. (beat) We need each other. (smiles) And we start in the morning. 
 No. 
 (calmly) Yes. Cobb reaches over and defiantly turns UP the MUSIC so that the room is overwhelmed with Kreisler's violin. Stump stares back at this decrepit, overpowering figure. 
 Ready, Mr. Cobb. 
 Chapter one, Page one... 
 I'm ready. 
 'Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day.' Stump types it out, then stops. 
 What the hell is that? 
 That's what Robert E. Lee said at the burial of my grandfather who was a Confederate General killed at Fredricksburg. 
 So I'm taking notes? 
 Hell no. That's the first line of my autobiography. 
 I ain't writing it. 
 Why not? 
 It's horseshit. It's a third person comment about someone who's already dead. An autobiography has to be in the first person -- plus it can't come from the other side of the God damn grave. 
 My story can come from any damn place I want. 
 Not to mention you can't call yourself 'a prince and great man' -- that's for the world to decide. 
 What kind of a fucking writer you call yourself -- all tied up in rules and regulations. What's the point being a writer if you can't say what you want to? 
 You're not treating me like a writer -- you're treating me like a stenographer. 
 Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day... 
 It has a certain ring to it... 
 Yes it does. 
 I thought you might like it. It's yours, a gift from me. (beat) 'Cobb, a prince among men, misunderstood in his genius, as genius always is' - (demands from Stump) This is the second line from what will be the greatest biography of a great man ever written -- type it! Cobb checks the tape and suddenly is deep in thought over some information coming across. Stump types. 
 Bethlehem Steel's about to dive. 
 (on phone) Jameson. Bethlehem's going in the toilet. Dump it all! Cobb slams down the phone, momentarily lost in finance. 
 You got a stock tip for me? 
 Yeah... buy Coca-Cola. We're about to go out in cans. 
 Coke in cans?    I don't think so. Cobb just stares back in disdain.      Then, suddenly -- 
 You know what's wrong with Ty Cobb? 
 What? 
 (proudly) Every disease known to man -- I got 'em all! And they'll never get me in a hospital -- never! (beat) My heart leaks -- the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me Digoxin to keep it pumping... Cobb grabs a bottle of Digoxin pills and flings it across the room in a rage. He flings bottles of pills as he recites his ailments. 
 They give me Darvon for the cancer in my back, they give me Tace for something eatin' up my stomach, Fleets Compound for an infection in my bowels, Librium for my tension, insulin for my diabetes... 
 Fuckin' insulin... 
 And if all that wasn't enough, it's been two years since I got my pecker in the air... (beat) The South may not rise again but my dick will. 
 (barks) I ain't here! 
 (answering the phone) Cobb's residence... hello. (beat) He's not here -- who's calling? Ernie? Ernie who? (his face drops) My God... (to Cobb) It's Ernest Hemingway... for you. 
 Tell him to go to hell! Stump covers the receiver nervously. 
 Jesus  Christ, Ty, this is the great  American writer -- this is the  man who inspired me to become  a writer! 
 Tell him to go to hell anyway. 
 Why? 
 Him and me used to be pals but we went on a hunting trip once and he hired a shitty guide. 
 That's it? You didn't like a guide he hired? Cobb looks at Stump with a fierceness that is so over- whelming, so physical, that Stump melts. 
 You tell him to go fuck himself or I'll kick your Yankee ass! 
 Mr. Hemingway? Mr. Cobb says... to go to hell. (awkwardly) By the way I'm a big fan of yours -- CLICK, a hang up. Cobb settles into a chair, letting the drugs and pills and booze work their way into his thick body. 
 Hemingway isn't a bullfighter -- he wrote about bullfighting. What the hell is that?! (beat) Bullshit... Damn painkillers... Cobb rubs his head -- The drugs are taking effect. 
 Ty, you okay? 
 It'll pass... (increasingly woozy) Stumpy, listen to me -- you know what I need? 
 What do you need? 
 I need a woman. (muttering to sleep) A woman is definitely what I need... 
 (V.O.) I couldn't be around the man for long without needing a break, which his painkillers gracefully provided. (beat) My sanity would soon depend upon a frequent breath of fresh air, a walk in the woods -- any escape from what one sportswriter had called 'Cobb's brooding soul that bubbled with violence.' Stump lights a pipe as he walks up a trail, away from the lodge, toward a ridge, all covered with snow. The flurries of snow are getting thicker now. 
 (V.O.) I knew most of the Cobb stories -- first man elected to the Hall of Fame, ahead of the incomparable Babe Ruth. Statistics that haven't been approached in three-quarters of a century. Stump stops at the ridge and looks down at the partially frozen Lake Tahoe in the lingering light. 
 (V.O.) But I'd known boxing champions and football players -- they were gentle souls outside the arena. (beat) How much of Cobb was an act, a lifetime of theatrical intimidation to preserve his own legend? (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 STUMP (CONT'D) Legends grow in time. Tough guys are tougher, women more beautiful, routine acts of self-preservation become heroic. 
 My God... The buck's head has a hole blasted behind the ear. 
 We're going to Reno.   I want a woman. 
 There's a blizzard out there! 
 When a man wants a woman, a man wants a woman. (CONTINUED) 
 Let's just put on some soup, build a fire, and we can work on the book. 
 How cozy. (holds up the paper bag) I got 25 thousand in cash and negotiable securities in here. Don't let it out of your sight. 
 Look, Ty, the roads are impassable. 
 You lead, I'll follow. 
 I'm not driving in this stuff! 
 I need a woman! CUT TO: 
 You call that driving, Alice?! My sister can drive faster than that! Step on it! (CONTINUED) 
 Get off the road -- ya can't drive any faster?! Move it! Stump is caught between fear and rage. 
 Fuck you! I ain't dying in this God damn ice cube! 
 (muttering) The man drives like an old woman... 
 Drive, motherfucker, drive! 
 struggles to see through the windshield -- snow is swirling everywhere. 
 STUMP'S POV Cobb's car disappears into the blizzard, fishtailing as it goes. 
 Jesus... 
 (to himself) He's a goner, Al, save your own God damn ass... (CONTINUED) 
 Cobb! Stump plows his way on foot down the embankment, fighting bad footing and snowdrifts, until -- He arrives at the car -- Surely nobody could survive this. With difficulty, he makes his way to the back door of the huge car and wrestles it open. 
 Cobb? 
 It's about fucking time you got here! 
 You've alive? 
 I wouldn't call it living but it'll do. Help me outta here. Stump helps Cobb back out of the car.    It is an awkward, clumsy, difficult task. 
 There's blood! 
 Of course there's blood! I just put my head through the windshield of a car, what the hell ya think, ya big fucking jerk. 
 Shut up! 
 Ty Cobb can't die like this! They'll bury me and nobody'll know who it is! 
 I said shut up. Stump drags Cobb awkwardly through the snowbank back up to the highway. When they get to the edge of the high- way, Cobb stops to stare at the tire tracks leaving the road. 
 Look't that! No guard rail! I'm suing the State Highway Commission, I'm suing the Governor, I'm suing every God damn body! (outraged) I coulda been killed! 
 God damn it, shut up and get in the car! The blizzard swirls around the two men, now at Stump's car on the highway. 
 Gimme your keys, I'm driving. 
 I'm driving. (CONTINUED) 
 Do you know how to get to Reno? Hell, no! I'm driving. 
 Over my dead body! 
 Your call. 
 You miserable son of a bitch. You coward, you pathetic, frightened, desperate old man -- you can't do anything without that gun and frankly it doesn't impress me to keep flashing it because I know you're not gonna shoot me 'cause you need me worse than I need you. What, you're gonna kill me? 
 I've killed a man. 
 Fine, then put me outta my fuckin' misery. I'm freezing. 
 Here ya go, Stumpy. I like a man who stands up to me. Stump holds the gun awkwardly, not knowing what to do. 
 Now give me the keys.   I'm driving. 
 It's only another hour -- plenty of time to tell you my story before we find us some women. 
 Women?   Plural? 
 Some for you, some for me. We'll have a helluva time. The broads're probably lining up right now, waiting for ol' Ty and his buddy Stump. 
 (muttering) Dear God... And Cobb launches in as he accelerates down the mountain, every curve risking death. He seems at peace with the world -- in the driver's seat, literally, on the edge of being utterly out of control. 
 I suppose you want to know about my childhood. Writers usually do. 
 None of this 'know ye that a prince and great man has fallen' stuff -- 
 My philosophy is simply this   -- Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends shouldn't mind what he does  or says, and those who are not  his friends, well, to hell with  'em. And Cobb drifts into a story of his youth. He's suddenly so relaxed that he pays little attention to the road. 
 I was born in a small town in Georgia, of course... my sweet sister Florence still lives there... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 COBB (CONT"D) (beat) And I started playing baseball when I was a kid like everybody else only I was better than every- body else. When I was seventeen I started playing for money -- my father didn't approve. (beat) He was a great man... 
 (V.O.) He was the mayor, they were grooming him for governor, he was a learned man, a professor, and the Head Deacon in the Baptist Church. 
 (sings loudly) 'There is a fountain filled with blood, Drawn from Emmanuel's veins...' 
 (V.O.) My mother was the most beautiful woman in the county... she married my father when she was twelve which was the way they used to do it. (beat) And she taught me to believe in the hymns we sang... I especially liked the bloody ones... (singing the hymn) 'And sinners plunged beneath that flood, Lose all their guilty stains...' 
 (V.O.) I remember after I was baptized and I was walking home with my pals... 
 (V.O.) I was feeling very Christian, ready to live the good life -- my father didn't drink, smoke, gamble or chase women -- and I wasn't going to either -- 
 (V.O.) ... when all of a sudden a train was coming at us. 
 (V.O.) There I was, a newly baptized child of God who hadn't hardly sinned, and I was gonna die. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) The engine bore down on me till I could see the whites of the engineer's eyes -- I was thrilled... 
 Closer and closer the engine comes -- 50 yards, 25 yards, 10, five, four, three... moments before death -- Young Ty Cobb leaps to safety, flying in front of the engine, out over the water till he splashes, mere milli- seconds before he would have been crushed to death. 
 (V.O.) ... it was the greatest thrill in my life not counting the first time I saw a woman naked... 
 (V.O.) I felt protected. By my father, my mother, the baptism, I don't know -- but from that moment on I knew I couldn't be hurt. 
 My father died in a terrible accident, you know. 
 No, I didn't, really... 
 Didn't you do your research on me before you came up here? 
 I didn't have time... I mean, I knew the basics. 
 Then you've read that I'm the meanest bastard of them all? 
 People have said that, yes... 
 I don't care what people think. 
 Then why do you care what I write? 
 I am who I tell you I am!   Why are you making things so complicated?! 
 That's what writers do. 
 Well writers oughta make things simple! Everything's complicated enough as it is. 
 (mutters) Maybe you're right! 
 Of course I'm right! 
 Ty! 
 Godddddddd! Cobb spins the wheel -- The car spins out of control, just missing the truck, and hurtling on down the icy highway. 
 Don't shout like that, Stumpy -- it just increases my tension. I saw that truck all along -- you think I'm gonna hit a truck when I'm getting close to finding me some women? Stump is in sheer terror by this time. 
 My father was murdered, y'know. 
 Your father was murdered? 
 I mean that's the sort of thing you're looking for, isn't it? (beat) Murdered on the balcony of his own house... the house I grew up in... 
 Your father was murdered? How come nobody knows about this? 
 The oldtimers in Royston know about it. Nobody else's business. It happened when I was 17, a few days before Detroit called me up. 
 But this helps explain why -- He catches himself. 
 Why I'm such a prick? Ha! (laughs) That's too easy -- you're a better writer than that -- 
 Was the killer ever caught? 
 There was an arrest, a trial, and an acquittal. Nobody was ever convicted. 
 Jesus Christ -- 
 Aw, don't go sob-sister on me, Stumpy. (beat) The only thing that finally matters is a man's accomplishments and I must say, in all humility, Al, in all humility -- I was the greatest ballplayer of all time. Nobody is even a close second. 
 Single to left, steal second, steal third, steal home... 
 Eight to one. 
 Fuck you! 
 Ten to one. 
 You're on. Cobb tosses some money on the pile, and climbs up the dugout steps, shouting. CUT TO: 
 Hey, greaseball, check your wife -- one of the players is missing! (CONTINUED) 
 Who the hell ever signed you? 
 Go to hell. 
 Hey, Cyclops, you're missing a good game. 
 Shut up, Cobb. As Cobb digs in, he reaches into his back pocket and drops something on home plate, in front of the CATCHER. 
 Here ya go... The Catcher holds up a pair of women's panties. 
 Your old lady left 'em in my car last night -- I thought you could give 'em back to her. 
 You're going down, Cobb. 
 Let's go. 
 (to the pitcher) That's as hard as you can throw?! Shit, it that was my fastball I'd wear a dress! 
 Hey, Wagner! I'd shade me a little up the middle if I was you! Wagner doesn't budge, comfortable in his position, not drawn into Cobb's taunts. Stoic, implacable -- far from Cobb. 
 (to catcher) You try to take my head off then you throw a sinker away, in and out, same old shit -- sinker away... 
 
 You God damn coward! You shoulda thrown at me again! You shoulda hit me in the fucking head! (CONTINUED) 
 Hey, Krauthead, I'm coming down. 
 The pitcher stretches, looks and delivers -- and Cobb breaks for second. The pitch is wide. The Catcher fires. 
 Stretches and delivers -- Cobb takes off for third.       The throw is high -- he slides in safely. 
 
 You want in on the action? My mother has a better arm than you! (to the Catcher) I'm coming to you, greaseball! Coming to kick your dago ass! 
 steals a glance at Cobb who takes a menacing lead off third. The Catcher gives a signal to the pitcher. 
 
 (V.O.) In those days you didn't hold hands and dance with the men on the other teams. They were the enemy -- you fought with 'em. (beat) And I was the most hated man in baseball. 
 #1 You're a shit, Cobb! (CONTINUED) 
 #2 I hate your guts, Cobb! Cobb tips his hat and speaks easily to the fan. 
 A good day to you, too, sir... The police escort Cobb to right field -- the roar of the vitriolic crowd increases. 
 (V.O.) Do you know what it's like to be booed like that? 
 (V.O.) It feels wonderful! They couldn't live without me! They came to the ballpark to see me! 
 (V.O.) Fifty thousand fans trying to kill me everywhere I went! 
 (V.O.) I loved it. Only great men are booed. Captains of industry and presidents. I knew 'em all... 
 (V.O.) Woodrow Wilson had the best Scotch... 
 (V.O.) Warren Harding had the best broads... 
 (V.O.) And Calvin Coolidge wasn't any damn fun at all... 
 After World War Two, General Patton asked me for an autograph -- he said he patterned himself after me! (beat) Are you getting this? 
 I'll remember. 
 Why aren't you writing?! 
 'Cause I'm trying to have a good grip on things when this car goes over the next cliff! I ain't ready to die yet! Cobb's tone changes suddenly -- he questions Stump with- out guile or anger, as if his answer is obvious. 
 But neither am I. 
 Ty! 
 I said I'm not ready to die. 
 Then watch the fucking road. 
 But you're not listening to me! I may have every God damn disease known to man but I am never going to check into a hospital because I am alive and I am going to get laid in Reno! (MORE) 
 COBB (CONT'D) (beat) You're gonna get laid, too, Stumpy! 
 Maybe I don't wanta get laid! 
 You queer?! 
 I'm married. 
 I thought you were divorced. 
 We're in the middle of a... problem. We're talking. 
 Talking my ass! Quit hanging on -- get a divorce. Is that why you don't wanta get laid in Reno? 'Cause you're feeling loyal to a woman you're divorcing? That's really stupid, Stumpy... 
 I'm not getting a divorce.    I'm being loyal. 
 Is that why you used to wine and dine that little brunette who had an office across the courtyard from you in Santa Barbara? Stump is nailed. 
 What do you know about her?! 
 I do my homework, Stumpy. I know where the bodies are buried. 
 (defensively) It didn't last long! 
 Hey,   no need to defend yourself. When   it comes to women I'm a total shit   -- the difference is, Stumpy, that   I know I'm a shit. 
 Nobody knows about the brunette. 
 Our little secret, huh? (beat) And that part about me being a shit with women? That ain't gonna be in the book. 
 I gotta put your family in my book. 
 Your book?! My book! And nothing about my ex-wives or children are gonna be in it. My book is about baseball! 
 My book is about Cobb! 
 Cobb is baseball! INTERCUT: 
 Ty!    Look!   It's a man! 
 Fuck him... (CONTINUED) 
 Stop the car! 
 Whoever it is he's gotta be pretty stupid to be out in this shit. 
 We're out in this shit! And Stump climbs out of the car. 
 My God... it's you.     Are you okay? It is Willie, the black man who Cobb fired the day before. 
 Let me help you to the car. 
 I told you that you'd only last one day with the bastard. 
 Cobb's in the car. He's driving. 
 Mr. Cobb's in the car? 
 Yeah... 
 Then I'm not getting in the car with that son of a bitch. I'd rather take my chances out here. 
 You're coming! 
 (muttering the whole way) He hates me. He hates black people... 
 He fucking hates everybody. Don't give him the pleasure of dying out here. 
 If dying out here gives him pleasure then I won't die out here. They get to the car -- Stump opens the back door to help the nearly-frozen man into the car. Cobb grumbles. 
 Ty, it's Willie. We can give him a lift to town. 
 Bullshit! I ain't givin' no nigger a ride nowhere! 
 Shut the fuck up and give him a ride! 
 Now who's the coward! You won't shoot me! You need me! Stump hands the gun to Willie..... (CONTINUED) 
 No. But I'm sure Willie would take great pleasure in it. Willie climbs into the back seat with the gun.       Cobb is livid. 
 You'll pay for this, Stumpy... 
 Say, Willie, you a baseball fan? 
 Yessir... 
 Who's the greatest ballplayer of all time, in your opinion? 
 Willie Mays, no doubt about it. 
 That nigger couldn't hold my jock! 
 Excuse me, Mr. Cobb, the man is speaking... 
 And I'd say the second greatest player of all time is Jackie Robinson... or maybe Josh Gibson... 
 Shut up!! 
 And of course, the greatest base runner of all time isn't riding in this car -- the fastest baseball player of all time was Cool Papa Bell -- Cool Papa would've easily broke all your stolen base records -- (CONTINUED) 
 Noooooo! 
 Cool Papa   was so fast that when he entered a   hotel room and flipped the light   switch off, he'd be asleep in   bed before it got dark... 
 And then there's Satchel Paige... 
 Oh yeah, Satchel Paige could throw a porkchop past a wolf, Mr. Cobb, ol' Satchel woulda had you eatin' outta his hand, he woulda had you hittin' .220 and kissin' his black ass to boot... 
 Shut this man up! 
 The man with the gun does the talking, you wretched, old prick... 
 Ice!   Slow down! Tyyyy! 
 Fucked up roads. They don't build highways like they used to. 
 Well, Mr. Cobb, thank you for a lift into town... Willie hands the gun to Stump and climbs out of the car, bidding farewell to Stump as he does. 
 And you, sir, should leave this disgusting, wretched, sorry son of a bitch immediately. Good evening. 
 Two rooms, please... 
 Aw, c'mon, you always want a discount, Mona. 
 RAMONA (WOMAN) Ra-mona... and the mattress is always lumpy -- 
 Excuse me, I've gotta get him checked in. He's very sick. 
 We're all sick in the eyes of God -- but some of us still have manners. 
 Two rooms, next to each other. 
 (barely audible) My money... (CONTINUED) 
 Your money's okay, Ty, right here... 
 My gun... 
 Your gun's okay, too... right here... 
 We haven't missed the testimonial dinner, have we? 
 No we haven't missed the dinner... 
 Good, good... Cobb manages a small, pained smile before drifting off into sleep. Stump turns off the light and exits. 
 (on phone) Hello? Happy Birthday! It's your Daddy! Yeah! (beat) Your birthday was yesterday?! No, it couldn't be! 
 (on phone) Omigod, what can I say? I feel terrible -- no, it's not okay, jeez... When I get off the road we'll do something special -- a late birthday, eh? Maybe you can go to spring training or something with me, eh? Yeah... (beat) Listen, is your mother there? (beat) I know she doesn't want to speak to me, but I want to speak to her. (waits for answer) Okay, okay -- I feel terrible about the birthday... I'll call you real soon. And tell your mother I'm not drinking anymore. Okay... 'bye, 'bye... Stump hangs up the phone -- Takes a deep breath, and... He pours another drink, and sits down to his typewriter. 
 Fuck it... Stump is hunkered over his typewriter pounding away.       His VOICE OVER indicates what he is writing. 
 (V.O.) I was a fool for thinking Cobb's brilliance might be what I needed at this moment of my life... Ty Cobb was the last thing I needed. (beat) He was not misunderstood -- he was understood perfectly well. He hated blacks, he hated Jews, he hated Catholics -- he hated everything except himself and his own view of the world... (beat) At times it seemed like he would drop dead in front of me... (beat) ... and other times he seemed indestructible... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 STUMP (V.O.) (CONT'D) (beat) I was reluctant to view the great Ty Cobb as a pathetic character, lost in the past, paranoia, and the shallow defense of 'his own breeding'... 
 'Pathetic, paranoid, lost in the past!' What is this shit?! 
 Those are my notes!   You can't look at my notes! 
 You're notes -- my life! You're gonna betray me, you son of a bitch! 
 You want the truth?   I'm gonna tell the truth! (CONTINUED) 
 Whose truth? 
 Mine, for crissakes, I'm the writer! 
 But I'm the legend and legends are not pathetic! 
 (slightly defensive) These are just notes... 
 Don't you understand anything about 'greatness'? 
 Maybe you should find another writer. 
 There's not enough time left. This frank admission momentarily stops Stump. 
 I'm entitled to my opinions -- 
 Now that's pathetic. Who gives a good God damn about the opinions of Al Stump?! What people want to know about is Ty Cobb! And they don't want to know who he hates 'cause everybody hates somebody! They don't wanta know if he had two wives or ten! They don't wanta know if he hit women or if they hit him! 
 You think they wanta know how to steal second base? 
 Yes!   Precisely! 
 Well I don't! (CONTINUED) 
 Oh, oh, oh... I get it. You're one of them college psychology type guys. You wanta find the missing piece to finish the puzzle known as the Madman Cobb -- you think you're the next Hemingway but you're just a moderate success in a moderate-sized pond. 
 Fuck you, Cobb! I'm much more than a moderate success! 
 That's it, now you're showing some life. You want psychology? I'll give you some fucking psychology! 
 (cynically) I'm all ears. 
 My father was a great man... DISSOLVE TO: 
 (V.O.) My father told my mother he was going out of town for the weekend on business. But he didn't go. He came back 'cause he thought she was being unfaithful... 
 (V.O.) I don't know why he thought it -- 'cause my mother was a wonderful woman -- but he thought it. 
 (V.O.) My   father thought he would catch the   man who was trying to steal his   wife from him... catch him in   the act... 
 WOMAN'S POV (B&W) The window.    It starts to open. 
 (V.O.) My father had high standards... the highest. He believed in quality... he believed in education... he believed in God... he believed in me... he believed in my mother... But on that night he seemed like a prowler... and so -- 
 (V.O.) My mother killed my father... shot him in the belly... (beat) And then blew his head clean off... (CONTINUED) 
 How's that? A pretty God damn good piece of psychology, eh? That what you're looking for? The childhood incident that explans me?! 
 Well I was a prick before it happened and a bigger prick after it happened so stick that up your Sigmund Freud ass! 
 Your mother killed your father? 
 And you ain't printing it. 
 I have to. 
 Not if I say so. I don't think you understand something -- I have final editorial approval of the book. 
 No, I do.    I always have it. 
 Did you read your contract? 
 It's my standard contract. I just signed. I would never have agreed to this if you had final approval. 
 Call your agent. Stump quickly dials and gets an answer. 
 Hello? Charlie? Al... I'm in Reno... yeah... things are fine... (beat) Yeah, listen... I'm just checking... did we give away final editorial approval on this Cobb book? (long beat of disbelief) We did? Cobb has it? Jesus... Stump listens long and hard -- his face sinks. Cobb smiles and hangs the phone back up for Stump who reaches for the bottle on the nightstand and pours himself a morning drink of vodka. 
 Well, you were pretty stupid to give up approval, weren't ya? 
 Fuck you, Cobb? 
 Fuck me? Why me? (suddenly charming) Why you mad at me? Your agent made the deal, your lawyer, your publisher, you didn't even read the contract because you trusted them! Who the hell ever trusted a lawyer or an agent?! If I was Al Stump, the guy I'd be pissed off at would be Al Stump! 
 Listen to me, you son of a bitch -- if you die before the book is finished, I'll write the story I want. 
 But I ain't dying first. 
 I'll write slow. 
 I'll die slow. 
 Now get dressed so we can go find some women... Stump just stares back -- exhausted and overmatched. 
 Look't that -- hundred bucks says I get in her pants before dawn. 
 My God -- it's Mona... Ra-mona... We met her at the hotel... Ramona is a vision in this outfit as she approaches them. 
 I don't remember... Ramona arrives at their table. 
 Cigarettes, gentlemen? Cigars? We stockpiled some Havanas before Senor Castro did his little number. 
 Coupla Monte Cristos, Ramona, number twos. 
 Have we met? 
 At the hotel -- checking in. 
 Ohyeah, you were the asshole. Cobb is suddenly gallant, gentlemanly, even charming. 
 Excuse me, young lady, I must apologize for the behavior of my friend -- he has a crude side. Ramona delivers the cigars and collects the money. Stump is a bit chagrined and caught off guard by this Cobb. 
 I accept. 
 Ramona... Spanish name... lovely... it means 'moonlit garden of the gods'... 
 Actually it's German and means 'wise protectoress' but thanks for the thought... 
 
 Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, you're a great crowd ... I have been informed that we have a celebrity with us tonight who is a legend, a man who truly needs no introduction... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 'Moonlit garden of the gods'? The audience stands to applaud Cobb -- Full and genuine. Cobb graciously waves to the crowd, bowing, basking. 
 And this one's for the Georgia Peach! They break into "Sweet Georgia Brown."/KEELY SMITH No gal made has got a shade on Sweet Georgia Brown, Two left feet but oh so sweet is Sweet Georgia Brown... Cobb breaks into a little dance with Ramona at the table, much to Stump's (and Ramona's) amazement. For a moment, at least, there is great footwork and lightness in his movement -- we get a glimpse of the great athlete he once was. 
 The great Ty Cobb! C'mon up here! 
 They want you, Ty -- 
 Of course they want me. And Cobb heads for the stage, walking better but not without effort, a walk enhanced by drugs and booze. As he does, Ramona turns to Stump. (CONTINUED) 
 Who's that? 
 The greatest baseball player of all time. 
 I don't know baseball from shmaseball but I know a nice man when I see one and I also know it's time for my coffee break. Hasta luego. And she's off with her trayful of tobacco to the cocktail lounge. 
 As Cobb arrives... LOUIS PRIMA AND GROUP (singing) Fellas, she can't get, are fellas, she ain't met, Georgia made her, Georgia claimed her, Sweet Georgia Brown. 
 My great pleasure, sir -- (shaking hands) I've always wanted to ask you something, Mr. Cobb, with all the great ballplayers playing right now -- how well do you think you'd do against today's players? 
 Well, I figure against today's pitchers I'd only hit about .275, .280... 
 That's amazing, Mr. Cobb, considering your lifetime average is nearly a hundred points higher. Why do you think you'd only hit .275 against today's pitchers? (CONTINUED) 
 Because I'm 72 fucking years old, that's why, God damn it. Give me that thing. Cobb grabs the mike and takes over. 
 First of all I wanta thank you for that song, 'Sweet Georgia Brown... it's a great song about my home state and I appreciate it... (beat) That song has become the theme song for the Harlem Globetrotters... (as Prima nods with a smile) It's too bad such a fine song had to be stole by a buncha niggers playing a faggot game in their underwear... 
 'Course the Globetrotters are owned by a Jew named Saperstein so whadda you expect? A disaster.     Prima tries gamely to seize the mike back. 
 Thank you very much. Another round of applause for the Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb! 
 I got the mike, Dago -- gimme a God damn minute. Nobody's got respect for their elders any more. Cobb turns to the crowd which, even in it's drunken state, is appalled and in disbelief. 
 Now let me explain to you how to hit a baseball. It's a lost art. Ever since that half-nigger Ruth started hitting home runs, the skill, the art, and the science have been lost. 
 Now, say this is a bat... 
 
 Let's just haul him off -- 
 That's Ty Cobb! He'll fucking kill me! 
 You see, the bat is like a wand, a magic wand... it should be caressed, held like a woman... like a woman who's really in need of a man... 
 The Casino Manager winces and consults. 
 Oh God, here we go... 
 Hitting a baseball is really very easy... you can't force it... you can't overpower it... you go with the pitch... you let the bat do the work... it's all rhythm and flow... And Cobb starts demonstrating hitting techniques to the bewildered audience and casino staff. He strikes that familiar, strange stance -- choked up on the bat, a split grip, the bat held parallel to the ground... CUT TO: 
 Excuse me. 
 You again? You could learn some manners from your friend. 
 I'll try harder. (motions for bartender) You're a beautiful woman. 
 It's the wig. Ramona pulls the wig off her head revealing a sea of bobby pins and hair pins tying her natural brown hair to her head. She sets the wig on the counter and scratches her natural scalp. 
 The damn thing itches but it's good for tips. Give me a scratch, will ya? Stump scratches the back of her scalp, somewhat embar- rassed and somewhat aroused. 
 Turn you on? Hey, Harvey, another round. On him. 
 Vodka and grapefruit juice. Ramona slaps the wig back on her head. Slightly akilter. She doesn't care. Harvey delivers another round. 
 Your wig's crooked. 
 Does it bother you? 
 No, no... I was just -- (CONTINUED) 
 (bored, shrugging) You wanta go to bed with me, right? 
 You want money? 
 I'm not a whore! I don't screw for money?! Jesus! 
 I'm sorry. I didn't know.     I mean I'm not good at this. 
 Just divorced, huh? 
 Not yet... 
 It's written all over ya.    Giant letters right across the forehead. D-I-V-O-R-C-E.     Ha! Plain as day. Ramona lets out a loud, hearty laugh without inhibition. 
 It's obvious, huh? 
 Obvious. (beat) So, if ya wanta pay me to screw, I won't do it. 
 Then I won't. 
 Screw or pay? 
 Whichever. (CONTINUED) 
 So ya don't wanta screw? 
 No, I do. 
 All this ambiguity -- I see why she's divorcing ya. Stump, completely befuddled, lets down completely. He doesn't care about getting laid or drunk or anything for the moment, except having someone to talk to -- the some- one is Ramona. 
 I don't know what I'm saying or doing anymore... I'm trying to speak my heart. 
 Oh God... 
 I told my wife I wanted a divorce. She said 'okay' -- then I realized maybe I don't. 
 Then go back to her. 
 No. 
 Then quit crying. You want a divorce, you don't want a divorce, you're asking marital advice from a woman you're trying to get in the sack -- Jeez Louise! 
 I'm not myself. 
 Who is? A sigh.   Stump is lost.    He motions to the bartender. 
 Another round, Harvey. (back to Ramona) This assignment has me befuddled. I'm supposed to tell the world that a monster is really a prince. I'm supposed to lie. 
 You being paid? 
 Very well. 
 Then it's not a lie. It's a job. Quit agonizing -- take the money, do what you gotta do, and get it over with. 
 I can't. 
 Then quit. 
 No! 
 For godsakes why not? Stump has to think about this for a while. 
 He knows greatness. I'm in the presence of greatness. I want to learn about greatness. She looks at him like he's crazy. 
 Greatness is overrated. 
 Maybe you're right, maybe you're right... 
 So what do you want? 
 I want to be in someone's arms tonight. 
 Oh that. Why do men have such a hard time saying what they want? 
 Wait, wait... don't drink too much. 
 Ya think I won't be able to screw if I'm too drunk? 
 Well... yeah... 
 Screwed, stewed, and tattooed! She laughs a hearty laugh, letting it all out. 
 C'mere... I want to hold you. 
 You're so thoughtful -- the others are trying to get me drunk and you're trying to keep me sober.  You'd be good husband material. 
 Not so fast -- 
 I didn't mean -- 
 Come here. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm not a whore. 
 Shh, shh... I know, I know... A moment of quiet, simple bliss -- when: 
 You two-timing bastard! You God damn Judas Iscariot! You stealing my girl! I'll kill you! 
 She's not 'your' girl! And Cobb lashes out at Stump -- Stump tries to block the blow, but Cobb is relentless, and Cobb hits him again. 
 What're you doing?! And Cobb backhands Ramona across the face, knocking her down. 
 You're coming with me! 
 I don't want to! 
 STUMP'S POV 
 What's this?! 
 My hair. 
 Put it back on. 
 That's better. 
 Who are you again? 
 I am the Georgia Peach. I have 4,191 base hits in 11,429 at- bats, 920 stolen bases, 2,244 runs scored, and 92 batting records... (beat) And I want you to undress. 
 No. Cobb clicks the hammer of his gun with icy calm. 
 That don't scare me 'cause if you kill me I'll be dead and you ain't gonna screw a dead lady. 
 I might. (CONTINUED) 
 You're right.    You might. 
 Take your clothes off. 
 You got big tits. I like big tits. 
 (terrified) They aren't so big. They're average, actually -- but these bras are great. Push 'em right up there. I owe a lot to the bras and wigs. A girl needs what she needs -- 
 Shut up.    Take it off. She does.    And covers her breasts with her hands. 
 Shy, huh?    Get on the bed. Ramona gets on the bed -- Cobb circles the bed continuously. 
 You're a beauty. Roll over. 
 Mr. Cobb, I -- 
 Shut up. 
 What I coulda done with you in my prime... 
 I'm sure you -- 
 Shut up! 
 What do you want from me?! 
 Roll over. Terrified, she does. 
 I want you to do exactly what I say... 
 No... 
 (O.S.) Ramona! Stump hurries to Cobb's door and listens in to be sure. 
 Exactly what I say... 
 A thousand dollars... He holds out the money for her. 
 Do what you gotta do and get it over with, Mr. Cobb. 
 I want you to tell everyone you meet that you fucked me and I was the best fuck you ever had. 
 That's all? 
 That's a lot. 
 For a thousand bucks?    Hell yes. He reaches out and straightens her wig which is pretty crooked by now. She lets him. Then he falls apart, vio- lently grabbing his crotch. 
 I'm looking at the most beautiful woman in the world, do you hear me?! 
 And I'm dead down here! Dead! Nothing! And it's been like that for over two years! Nothing! Now get outta here before I hit you! 
 Georgia Peach my ass -- Georgia trash is what you are! (CONTINUED) 
 She was a great piece of ass, Stumpy, best I ever had... 
 Good, good... 
 Have we missed the Testimonial Dinner? 
 No we haven't, Ty... now get some sleep... Stump tucks Cobb in his bed as the old man drifts into sleep, turns off the light, and heads back to his own room. 
 (V.O.) He slept for days. I thought he was gone for sure. But even in sleep he was restless and in motion, a fire always burning in his belly... 
 (V.O.) By this time I was working on two manuscripts -- one was his version, My Life In Baseball -- which for better or worse was a history of how to steal second base or how to hit the breaking ball to the opposite field. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 STUMP (V.O.) (CONT'D) It contained nothing about his parents, much less the death of his father at the hands of his mother... 
 (V.O.) ... It contained nothing about his children and ex-wives, none of whom would even speak to him... (beat) It contained no insights from his friends because I couldn't find any. 
 (V.O.) It was a baseball book and I kept it in the typewriter for him to discover and amend... (beat) It was a book I never planned to publish. Stump sits on his bed smoking his pipe and writing in longhand on pieces of paper of all sizes. 
 (V.O.) The second version, my version, was written on legal pads and hotel stationery and cocktail napkins and anything I could scrape together without drawing his attention... (beat) I kept my version in a box at the bottom of my suitcase -- (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) The whole thing had become an agonizing death watch, and most days I couldn't believe the son of a bitch wouldn't die... The door flies open and Cobb bursts in -- full of vim and vigor, a fresh set of clothes on, fire in his eyes. 
 Nothing like a cigarette girl and thirty hours of sleep to invigorate a man, Stumpy! You look like shit. 
 Been writing, Ty... Cobb goes straight for the typewriter and yanks out a page, grabbing the stack of typed pages as well. 
 Well let's see how we're doing... Cobb reads the pages with utter seriousness.       Stump watches. 
 Yes, God damn it, Stumpy, yes! Now you're getting it! None of this Sigmund Freud bullshit! Baseball, Stumpy, baseball! Yes! Cobb rushes to Stump and embraces him, almost like a child. His eyes are wet with tears. 
 You understand! People are no damn good but you're different! You're okay, Stumpy, you get it! (beat) And I can trust you... 
 Now let's go roll us some dice, Alimony, I feel a hot hand coming on! CUT TO: 
 Y'see how it    works, Stumpy... they boo ya your    whole career, then when you're    about to kiss off, they put ya    on a pedestal. That's what being a    legend's all about. 
 Send the dice to the Peach, boys, and belly up to the bar... 
 Stumpy, what is that?! 
 My girl went for the nigger? 
 I think they're just next to each other by accident. 
 Mona!   You with that nigger! Cobb's voice silences the tables.    Ramona looks up. 
 He's crazy. 
 I know. 
 Willie!     Is she with you?! 
 This is my man, Mr. Cobb, and he's all man. 
 My girl with my nigger! 
 She's not your girl and he's not your -- 
 He's got a gun. 
 Mr. Cobb! 
 Get down! Cobb on the table with a gun as Stump and police officers scramble to grab his gun hand. Customers hit the deck. 
 What is the world coming to?! BLAM, BLAM, BLAM -- the gun is FIRED REPEATEDLY into the ceiling fixtures, into the mirrors above the tables. Cobb is wrestled to the table by several men, including Stump. And it takes all of them to escort the struggling Cobb out of the casino into the lobby. 
 (to security men) We're leaving, we're leaving! There's no reason to press charges! 
 (to everbody) Do you know who I am?! 
 You're a crazy old fool, that's who you are! (CONTINUED) 
 Back off, God damn it!   We're leaving! 
 Where we going, Stumpy, I wanta find us some more women! 
 Ty, Ty, Ty, calm down. It's time for the testimonial dinner! 
 (V.O.) Actually the testimonial dinner at the Hall of Fame was still weeks away, but it was the only thing that got him calmed down enough to get us out of town without getting thrown in jail -- or getting somebody killed. 
 (V.O.) And as we headed across country, Cobb as usual was oblivious to the chaos he'd left in his wake. In fact he was buoyed with new enthusiasm at the prospects of seeing his cronies once again... 
 Y'know something, Alimony, I believe you're the best friend I ever had. 
 You're kidding. 
 Swear on a Bible, Stumpy -- I feel I can trust you now. 
 (V.O.) I was disturbed, to say the least, that he felt we were friends -- but at least for the moment it made things bearable. (beat) And he started talking -- the world according to Ty Cobb... Cobb talks into a tape recorder sitting on his lap, enjoying the hand microphone. 
 (into recorder) And then this fat ass named Babe Ruth came into the league and damn near destroyed the game of baseball... We all thought he was gonna eat and fuck his way outta the league but he hung around for a few years -- 
 'Hung around'? He was -- (quickly revising) -- next to you -- the greatest player of all time. He hit 714 home runs?! 
 Anybody can hit home runs. Now excuse me, I got work to do... 
 Sorry, Ty -- And Cobb resumes into the tape recorder. 
 I didn't care that they cheered and adored Ruth -- I cared that they respected his ballplaying -- Christ, they built Yankee Stadium for him with a 297-foot right field line. My sister Florence could hit the ball 297 feet! DISSOLVE TO: 
 (V.O.) Whenever we got into a fight with the New Yorkers, 24 of our guys would fight 24 of their guys and me and Ruth would take on each other! As the benches clear -- Cobb races not at the pitcher but straight to right field where The Babe is charging in like a rhino straight for Cobb. Somewhere near second base the two giants collide in a thunderous smash, falling to the ground in a brawl, as 48 players slug it out in the b.g. DISSOLVE TO: 
 (V.O.) During the day, we worked on his version of the story. At night I worked on mine... 
 (V.O.) I was drinking like a fish, smoking cigarettes again, and now lying about the hidden manuscript. (beat) And by writing two versions without telling him, I was becoming something Cobb was not. (beat) I was becoming a liar. An O.S. RUMBLE -- Stump quickly hides the manuscript as: 
 Fabulous stuff, Stumpy, just brilliant. You're a genius. 
 Thanks, Ty... 
 I love reading about me. 
 Goddamn it, who's out there? Cobb hurries outside, drawing his pistol. 
 (V.O.) He shot up his share of motels for all the usual reasons -- guests were too noisy, he couldn't get any sleep, it didn't matter -- he was always boiling over... (CONTINUED) 
 ... and I became expert at keeping the peace wherever we went... 
 as Stump helps him shoot up. 
 (V.O.) I also became expert at finding his veins... (beat) Which always revived him... CUT TO: 
 (into recorder) ... by the age of 25 I was a millionaire, by the age of 30 a multi-millionaire, by the age of 35... Stump wades up in the weeds to give Cobb his pills. 
 (V.O.) Somewhere along the way I'd gone from biographer to stenographer to chauffeur to nurse... I was the only thing keeping the bastard alive... and I kept hoping he'd die. 
 Y'know, Stumpy, with a friend like you, I just might go on forever... Cobb grabs the recorder mike and launches in again. 
 (back into the mike) Where were we -- ohyeah -- then, at the age of 42, I batted .323 which was an embarrassment to me but would be a career for anyone else... 
 (V.O.) Until, by the grace of God, we arrived -- days, weeks, months later, I don't know -- in Cooperstown, New York, for his beloved testimonial dinner... DISSOLVE TO: 
 You're gonna meet great athletes, great warriors, great men at this Hall of Fame dinner, Stumpy. None of this modern, pansy bullshit -- 
 I've been looking forward to this for a long time -- 
 You fucking liar. You've been hoping I'd die first. 
 You got me wrong. 
 I got you right. But it's okay 'cause I need your help. Stump squirms.      A KNOCK at the door.    Stump answers it. 
 Can I help you? 
 Cobb here? 
 Why? 
 I'm Mickey Cochrane. 
 Jesus.   Ty, it's Mickey Cochrane. 
 Where's your tux? 
 COCHRANE (MAN) I don't have one. 
 I sent you money for it. (CONTINUED) 
 It didn't arrive. 
 You drank it, you mean. You can't go to the Hall of Fame like that. I won't allow it. 
 Things have been rough, Ty. 
 There's two things a man should never do -- complain or explain. (beat) Now go buy a God damn tux! 
 The stores are closed. 
 (exploding) How could you be so good behind the plate and so bad everywhere else! 
 Operator? What's the best men's shop in town. Who owns it? Jack who? Gimme his home number. Better yet, ring him up for me. (beat) Jack?! This is Ty Cobb. Go down to your shop and open it up and sell a tux to the great Mickey Cochrane. And sell him a cumberbund and a shirt and a bow tie and some God damn cologne. He smells like shit. What's the address? (makes a note) He'll be there in twenty minutes. Cobb thrusts the card into Cochrane's hand. 
 God damn it, Mickey, ya gotta give a better effort. (CONTINUED) 
 Thanks, Ty. 
 He's lost, Stumpy, the poor man's been lost ever since he took a fastball in the ear. 
 You take care of him? 
 For years -- but that ain't goin' in the book. 
 Jesus, Ty, why not? 
 Because it would embarrass him. Cobb winces as he tries to rise, almost falling. 
 I don't wanta take the cane tonight. 
 You've got to have your cane. 
 I don't have to have anything -- if you stay near me... in case I wobble or something... just a firm hand right here... (touches his own lower back) That'll keep me upright. I'd appreciate it. Now how do I look? Cobb poses in his tux -- proudly, unsurely. 
 You look like the greatest ballplayer of all time. You going to be okay? 
 I'll be okay when I hear the crowd. CUT TO: 
 P.A. The great left-handed pitcher from the New York Giants, who struck out five men in a row in the 19-- All-Star game -- Carl Hubbell. Lanky Carl Hubbell, 50's, waves to the crowd and cameras as he enters to applause from the locals gathered. 
 P.A. The great third baseman from the Chicago Cubs, Harold Joseph 'Pie' Traynor... Pie Traynor, 60's, struggles to the entrance using a cane. 
 P.A. Paul and Lloyd Waner, the Waner brothers -- Big Poison and Little Poison -- from the Pittsburgh Pirates... The Waner Brothers, 60's, jauntily wave and enter. 
 P.A. Fifty-eight home runs in a season -- Mr. Double-X -- the great Jimmy Foxx! 
 P.A. And ladies and gentlemen, the highest lifetime batting average of all time, first man elected to the Hall of Fame, retired with over 90 batting records, the one and only Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb! Cobb gets out, followed by Stump. Cobb walks into the building, past the cameras, utterly erect and upright, stretching his full six feet one inch. The applause is the most enthusiastic yet. (CONTINUED) 
 Your hand, Stumpy, your hand! 
 Thank you, my friend... And Cobb is met by the Hall of Fame director, CHARLES, 50, who shakes his hand and shows him in. 
 Hello, Mr. Cobb, good to see you again. And they head inside. CUT TO: 
 Sam Crawford, Ty, Long time no see. 
 Good to see you, Sam.   You doin' okay? 
 I'm alive, Ty, I'm alive... 
 The boys'll get together later and have a little party, eh? 
 Be some parties tonight, Peach... (CONTINUED) 
 Stumpy, meet Rogers Hornsby, next to me the greatest hitter of all time -- 
 How d'ya do.   You're looking good, Ty... 
 I look like shit and you know it. We'll have a real smoker later, eh? 
 Ohyeah... we'll tear it up good... The EMCEE raps a fork on a glass, bringing the dinner to order. 
 M.C. Welcome to Cooperstown, ladies and gentlemen. We're here to acknowledge the greatest ballplayers of all time, those men still gracing our presence who were among the earliest inductees into the Hall of Fame. (beat) Waner, Hubbell, Foxx, Cochrane, Hornsby, Traynor -- these are the giants, the Old Masters of our craft... 
 M.C. But the greatest of all is with us tonight -- simply put, the best ballplayer ever -- Tyrus Raymond Cobb. 
 M.C. We have gathered from the archives some film on Mr. Cobb... lights, please... 
 (V.O.) This rare footage of Ty Cobb reflects his love of children, and they admired him by the thousands... 
 FILM - COBB (B&W) posing with kids in uniforms. He clowns with them, tousling their hair, knocking off their caps. 
 (V.O.) On another occasion he partakes in a Donkey Baseball game, showing his not-so-well-known lighter side... 
 FILM - COBB (B&W) on a donkey in a Donkey Baseball game. 
 (V.O.) And here's Cobb with two other immortals, Babe Ruth and Tris Speaker... 
 (V.O.) Cobb and Speaker were great friends off the field, and of course were accused of fixing some games by pitcher Dutch Leonard... 
 (V.O.) Cobb and Speaker were clearly involved with unsavory gamblers, but finally were acquitted by Judge Landis, though many questions remain unanswered -- 
 What the hell is this?! 
 It's a great film -- 
 Me and Speaker and the fix? 
 I think the medication's getting to you, Ty -- I'm watching you run the bases. 
 (V.O.) Cobb's unique batting style led to an unprecedented 12 batting championships and a lifetime average of .367 which places him far above the field... 
 (V.O.) His ruthless competitive spirit has sometimes been called psychopathic... 
 Al, what are you seeing? 
 Your batting stroke. 
 (V.O.) In an infamous incident on August xx, 19xx, Cobb attacked a heckler who turned out to have no arms or legs, and was briefly suspended for the incident... 
 Stumpy, what's going on? 
 Ty, I think you're not well -- I'll take you back to the motel. 
 What're you seeing? 
 You and Connie Mack. 
 (V.O.) Cobb and his friends were notorious for booze and sex parties they had in the off-season, parties they called 'Smokers,' which took place in various hunting cabins they would fill with hookers... 
 (V.O.) And when he retired in 1929, Cobb left behind 92 batting records and a legacy of greatness that may never be approached. 
 Crawford and Foxx have something cooking in Room 212 -- 
 Over here, Ty. 
 I never partied with these boys but they had a reputation. 
 212 They knock.     JIMMY FOXX opens the door a crack. 
 Ty. 
 You got some booze? 
 No. (CONTINUED) 
 I do. (beat) Who's in there? 
 Me, Sam and Pie. 
 Got any women in there? 
 Sure do. Cobb lights up. 
 Me and Stumpy want some action. 
 Wanta meet some great broads? 
 We're ready. And Jimmy Foxx opens the door letting in Cobb and Stump. CUT TO: 
 Hello, Ty.   You know my wife, Lillian? 
 And this is Mrs. Traynor. 
 Pearl, meet Ty Cobb and -- 
 Al Stump. 
 (meekly) Hello, ladies. Foxx pulls Cobb aside and whispers discreetly. 
 Hornsby's got something on the third floor -- maybe more what you're looking for. 
 There it is! 
 You sure you're up for this? 
 I've never been readier! Cobb takes a hit on his flask and they knock at the door. Hornsby answers the door -- we can see a party behind him, full of old players, booze, cigars -- and even some women, though the whole thing is infinitely tamer than the smokers Cobb remembers. 
 Rajah! 
 You ain't comin' in, Ty. 
 It's me!   An' Stumpy here! 
 You're a bastard and you ain't coming to our party. 
 Who's in there?! 
 Me and Mickey an' a coupla broads. 
 Let me talk to Mickey. 
 Ty... 
 Ya look good in that tux, Mick. 
 I can't let ya in, Ty. It's Rogers' party. I'm an invited guest. 
 God damn it, let me in! Cobb tries to break into the party but Hornsby rushes over and shoves the door in his face, leaving Ty and Stump alone. 
 Presidents of the United States of America used to invite me to the White House to drink their Scotch and smoke their cigars and fuck their women. 
 Let's go to the motel, Ty... Cobb heads down the hallway pounding on every door -- he's ready to explode. 
 Let me in, God damn it! I invented this game! Let me in! 
 Let's go home, Ty, this isn't a good place to be... 
 (screaming) I fought for players' rights and salary increases and unions while all you crawled around on your knees begging massa' for bread crumbs just thankful for a job! (MORE) 
 COBB (CONT'D) Open up,   God damn it! Ballplayers can make   big money but they're too stupid!    You're all too stupid! The hell   with ya! 
 Take me back to the Hall! 
 I appreciate your coming. 
 For Mr. Cobb, no problem. Cobb is silent.     He and Stump enter. CUT TO: 
 What did you see on that film tonight? 
 I saw Ty Cobb playing baseball. 
 That's all? 
 That's all. 
 I was raised in the Baptist Church but I know that Heaven is just the ol' oskefagus -- the change-up. You swing from your ass 'cause you think life is a fastball down the middle and after your bat has crossed the plate and you're all off balance and looking stupid, the ball just kinda flutters across home, slow and juicy and hittable, and as it crosses the plate, the ball looks at you and smiles a nasty smile and laughs its way into the catcher's mitt... (beat) We don't just lose -- we're made fools of. 
 You were the best. 
 Save the romance for the book... (beat) ... and take me home to Georgia. 
 (V.O.) Cobb parted with some of his hard- earned money and rented a limo in order to make what he called a 'grand re-entrance to his beloved home town of Royston...' 
 (V.O.) He loved the manuscript, as well he should -- it made him out to be a saint -- Cobb looks up from the manuscript. 
 Greatest biography ever written -- 
 (V.O.) The book, like Cobb, was almost finished. But he was dying slower than I was writing, and like everything else, he viewed it as a competition that he was not going to lose. 
 (V.O.) To me, we weren't riding to Georgia in a limo... (beat) We were riding in a hearse... 
 (O.S.) We're here. And the fuckin' sign needs paint. 
 (V.O.) It wasn't exactly the 'grand re- entrance to a home town' that he talked about... 
 My sister lives down this way... Turn right here... 
 (O.S.) (slightly confused) They look kinda the same... 
 (O.S.) When's the last time you saw her? 
 About fifteen years ago.     But she understands me... (points) There! No... damn.... 
 (O.S.) Maybe she moved. 
 There!   I think... 
 POV - HOUSE 
 
 I'll see if it's her.   Wait here. Stump gets out of the car and heads up the walk. 
 Good day, ma'am. I'm looking for Florence Cobb --------. (CONTINUED) 
 That's me. 
 I have your brother in the car. 
 Tyrus? 
 Yes.   And he'd like to see you. 
 I don't wish to see him. 
 It's been a long time, he said. He's not well. 
 I have nothing to say to him, and wish to hear nothing he has to say to me. 
 I know there's been problems, but the family is very important to him. 
 Young man, the family he talks about never existed. 
 He loved his father. 
 If his father, if my father, was such a great man, why did Tyrus turn out to be so evil? Stump hesitates.      He doesn't have a ready answer. 
 He's dying.   He just wants to see you. 
 No. 
 Well? 
 It wasn't your sister. The woman in the house said your sister moved a long time ago... she doesn't know where. 
 You cocksucking liar. My sister doesn't want to see me and you're lying. And Stump, at last, goes off -- 
 Liar?! A cocksucking liar?! Of course I'm a liar! That's what I'm paid to do, isn't it?! Lie about Ty Cobb?! 
 If you didn't like the job, why didn't you quit? 
 Who would take care of you? 
 Don't give me the sob-sister routine. 
 I listen to your bullshit, I interpret and shape and find words for your bullshit and you give me nothing but grief! 
 You love being this close to greatness! 
 Stop the car! 
 I wish you'd die! 
 I will, Stumpy, I will... Cobb is out of the car on his cane -- following Stump. 
 And go to hell! A line of lightning signals a storm in the distance. 
 Oh, I'll do that, too. (beat) And look how convenient you've made it. 
 That was your sister alright, and she didn't want anything to do with you either! 
 I forgive her. Stump walks into the cemetery to escape Cobb, who follows nonetheless with a cool resolution. Stump laughs at Cobb's comment. (CONTINUED) 
 You forgive her?! That's rich! 
 (following along) Forgiveness is crucial to human maturity and religious growth. 
 Religious growth?! 
 We all need to forgive more, Al... you oughta try it. You're too angry. You're all pent up. 
 I'm angry? Through the cemetery they keep walking, up a long hill full of tombstones and shrines and sprays of dead and dying flowers and gaudy plastic bouquets. Cobb following steadily along with his cane, several paces behind Stump. 
 Are you angry because I discovered you were a whore? Is that it, Alimony? 
 I'm angry?! 
 Is it the divorce?    You gotta let go of it... 
 I love her!   I don't want a divorce! 
 Sure ya do. You're just so used to accommodating people that you don't know what you want anymore. I accommodate nobody. Stump whirls near the top of the hill to face Cobb who continues making his way along, slowly and surely. 
 But you have no friends! (CONTINUED) 
 Do you? Who are they?! Those drunken hacks you hang out with who all think they're gonna write the great American novel but all they're gonna ever do is bitch and moan and write lousy leads about high school football games? How about the brunette in the courtyard? Is she your friend? I heard she fucks everybody -- she must be everybody's friend! A mausoleum looms behind Stump, bigger than anything in the cemetery, classical, outsized, monumental, even elegant. One simple word is above the door, carved in granite:. 
 I'm glad we're here -- I was gonna bring you here anyway sooner or later -- Stump turns to see the mausoleum, and the word. 
 Which Cobb of Georgia is that? Several beats as the men take it all in.      Finally: 
 (with pride) That is me. 
 When I die, my mother and father will be moved in here and, in time, my dear sister, Florence will join us as well. (beat) The family will be together again. 
 Under one roof? That's romantic! You want that in the book? Ty Cobb brings the family together at last to enter the gates of Heaven whole! 
 You mock my family -- you mock me. Cobb grabs Stump by the throat and stares him in the eye. 
 My father was a great man! 
 Then why are you such a bastard? 
 Being a bastard is a small price to pay for greatness. I, too, am a great man. 
 Let me go! 
 My mother didn't kill my father. 
 What're you talking about? Cobb's fist clinches Stump's throat, forcing him to hear. Outside the mausoleum, RAIN pours down now, a Southern spring thunderstorm unleashing torrents. 
 My father told my mother he was leaving town for the weekend but he came back to the edge of the woods where he tied up his horse... CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) ... because my father thought my mother was being unfaithful to him... 
 (V.O.) ... he was going to catch my mother with another man... 
 (V.O.) I stood by my mother when she was tried for murder a few months later. I said she was noble and true and loved my father completely and the whole thing was an accident and she was acquitted as she should have been... (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Because my mother did not kill my father. 
 (V.O.) My mother's lover killed my father. 
 (V.O.) The last thing my father saw was the face of the man fucking his wife! The lover unloads the second shell -- blowing his head off. 
! CUT TO: 
 Well?! Is that what you want?! 'Cause that's all I know and the only other people who know about it are dead! But it ain't going in the book, either, 'cause you're the only friend I got left, and you're the only man I can trust. Cobb lets Stump go, relaxing his grip and -- 
 I don't want to be your friend! I don't want to feel sorry for you! So your mother's lover blew your father's head off! I don't care. You were a prick before it happened, you were a prick after it happened, you've been a prick ever since, and you're a prick now! Cobb quietly takes a hit on his flask from the doorway of the mausoleum, watching Stump rant and rave in the rain. 
 Public relations are overrated. 
 What the hell're you talking about? Cobb holds out his flask for Stump. 
 You need a drink. 
 Fuck the drink! 
 You're too angry, Al, you just gotta learn to let it out. Stump stands in the rain screaming at Cobb who stands out of the rain, calm, centered, drinking, dying. 
 I'm gonna tell the truth about you, Cobb! I'm gonna tell the world you hate women, Jews, and niggers! 
 (calmly) You shouldn't use the word 'nigger', Stumpy, it's racist and demeaning. And I don't hate women -- I'm just not very good with 'em, which puts me in the same boat with you and every other man I know. (CONTINUED) 
 You treat people like dirt! 
 The children of America need heroes, Al, you know that... Cobb takes him by the arm and tries to lead him to the limo. 
 Get your hands off me! 
 C'mon, Al... (taking by the arm) You're making a fool of yourself out here. It's not dignified... (helpfully) Come in out of the rain... 
 You're an educated man... tell me what you think... Stump just sits there, drinking. 
 Either my father was... inadequate ... for my mother... he was not the man I thought he was... not a great man... not even a good man... (beat) ... or my mother was... trash... a common whore... (beat) It's that simple, isn't it? 
 As a boy I stood in court next to her because suddenly I was the man of the house but as I stood there steadfastly by her side and heard the jury say 'not guilty' I knew she'd been with another man the night of the killing. Stump drinks deeply once again. 
 A man must defend his mother at all times, isn't that right, Al? Or am I a fool? 
 A man must defend his mother at all times. 
 That's what I thought... And the two men sit there silently, rocking slightly, trying to stay warm, when there is -- Suddenly a KNOCK at the door -- They stare at each other. 
 In here. (CONTINUED) 
 Papers? 
 I'm afraid it's divorce, Stumpy. I know this routine. MAN WITH BRIEFCASE You're being sued for divorce. 
 But my wife and I are still talking?! 
 Yeah, and what she's saying is 'fuck you.' 
 Fuck me? Well fuck her.     No, fuck him. Stump reaches for the gun and aims it at the man. 
 You ain't serving me no papers. 
 I love my wife. 
 We all loved our wives, Al, that's got nothing to do with it. (CONTINUED) 
 There's a million broads out there, Stumpy -- put down the gun. 
 I am not going to accommodate this man, Tyrus. 
 You're all mixed up.   Give me the gun. 
 You're absolutely right, Tyrus, I've been accommodating people my whole life and it stops right here. (beat) You've killed a man. I'll kill a man. KABLAM!   KABLAM!   He misses again. 
 Don't give me that sob-sister stuff! Stump tries to hold the gun with two hands, approaching the man, to nearly point-blank range. 
 Al... no... Al... Al... 
 Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends don't care what he says or does. You're my friend, Ty, right? You're my friend! 
 No! Stump pulls the TRIGGER -- CLICK.     Empty. 
 I almost killed a man. 
 A little drunken excess... 
 No. I put a gun to a man's head and pulled the trigger. I wanted to kill him. 
 It's forgotten already. I saw nothing. Nothing happened. 
 Yes it did. 
 Al, listen to me. (MORE) 
 COBB (CONT'D) If I was hired to write a biography of the greatest sportswriter of our time -- a biography of Al Stump -- would I include what happened tonight? Attorneys are pigs -- divorce attorneys are lower than pigs. What happened tonight was private. An intimacy. Your own business. Our own business. Nobody else's. It wouldn't belong in a book about greatness. 
 Nobody's gonna write my biography. 
 And when the brunette in the courtyard brushed against you, I know what happened, Al. A warm summer breeze, the smell of jasmine, her black hair against a white blouse -- you came to life again, you got hard -- and when you saw her naked it was more than you could bear... it's okay, Al, it's okay... (beat) The brunette ain't gonna be in the book either... Stump looks up at Cobb but says nothing. He picks up a nearly-empty bottle off the floor and takes a hit. 
 And the drinking? Well, they used to say ol' Ty had a drinking problem but you can booze me right under the table right now... no problem... and nobody's God damn business, either... Stump raises his hand, motioning Cobb to stop. 
 I get it... I get it... A moment.    A look. 
 Then get some sleep.   You look pathetic. 
 (reading to himself) ... 'vicious, pathological, bubbling with violence... Cobb's demons were not merely exorcized on the baseball field... they spilled over into all parts of his miserable life...' DISSOLVE TO: 
 You don't have a point of view, Stumpy, you ain't worth killing... 
 Dear God... 
 No... no... no... this can't be... Absolutely not... This is not right... Cobb coughs again -- More blood covers his chin. He touches his chin, touches the blood, smears it around a little, looks at his hands now covered with blood. 
 (terrified) Stumpy?! No... 
 Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed by Thy name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on Earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive -- (beat) Aw, fuck it... little late for that sob sister stuff... Cobb rises to his feet and looks in the mirror again. He grabs a hand towel and daubs his face with it. A bit more blood trickles from his mouth. And gradually a deep calm seems to settle over him. 
 ... so this is what it feels like... 
 (on phone) Can you get me the Emory Hospital? (couple beats) Hello, Ma'am? This is Ty Cobb. Can you please prepare your finest room for me? Tomorrow morning would be fine. Cobb hangs up and leans back on the bed next to Stump who is still deep in drunken sleep. One man sleeps deeply, the other just sits there. DISSOLVE TO: 
 Ty. (off no answer) Tyrus. (off no answer) Peach... Stump struggles to his elbow to find Cobb. 
 Ty! Stump leaps out of bed and looks around. 
 STUMP'S POV 
 (O.S.) God... 
 STUMP'S POV 
 (V.O.) 'Dear Alimony, you lying S.O.B. -- I'm checking myself into the hospital. I think the end is near. Your Pal, Ty.' 
 I'm here to see... (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Get the hell outta here! You call this a hospital?! You call this food?! You know who I am?! 
 ... Mr. Cobb. 
 Be careful. He's got a gun and we haven't been able to get it away from him. 
 I know, I know... Stump hurries down the hall to the source of the noise. A small group of doctors, orderlies and NURSES are gathered outside Cobb's door, afraid to enter. Also there are two civilians in business suits. 
 #1 He doesn't want visitors. Stump ignores the advice and enters the room. CUT TO: 
 Hey, Stumpy, where you been? You can't believe the shit they call food in this joint. You get some sleep? Good. I had quite a read last night... A Nurse enters warily, but determined, with a small sy- ringe. 
 #1 Excuse me, sir, but I need to draw some more blood. 
 Put a bucket under my chin and I'll cough up a couple pints for ya. 
 #1 I have to do it this way. 
 Well don't poke around too long. 
 She's a nice piece of ass, eh, Stumpy? (to Nurse) You come back later and climb on the big fella? 
 #1 It's against regulations, sir. 
 So you read the book. 
 Yeah, God damn it, I thought I could trust you -- I used to be able to figure out people better. 
 That book is the truth. 
 You're a God damn romantic! The truth is a whore! Just like you and just like my mother! Another NURSE enters and announces. 
 #2 A Mr. Barton is here to see you. He says he's the chairman of the board of Coca Cola. 
 Tell the son of a bitch to go downstairs and have a Pepsi -- I got no time for business. 
 I need to take your blood pressure, sir. 
 It's high.   What else you need to know? 
 I have to do it. 
 Mr. Cobb. We cannot allow you to have a gun in here. Cobb picks up the gun and aims it at the doctor. 
 Come and get it. The Older Doctor turns and leaves.        Stump enjoys the show. 
 Y'know, Stumpy, my oldest son was a doctor -- a hacksaw artist, that's all they are -- (increasing rage) He died of a brain tumor when he was forty -- hadn't spoke to me in fifteen years 'cause I was such a rotten father -- put that in your God damn book! The Younger Doctor completes his task and slips away. 
 (to the Younger Doctor) Bad, ain't it? 
 I don't know which version of your life I'm going to publish. I really don't. 
 There ya go again! Accommodating me and you don't have to! I died faster than you could write! Cobb waves his gun just as some more doctors enter. 
 Get the hell outta here! Everybody but Stumpy! Out! 
 You fooled me, Stumpy, nobody ever fooled me but you pulled it off! I thought we were pals! 
 I didn't know what I was getting into with this job. 
 Quit explaining yourself! Stand by your convictions! You beat the great Ty Cobb! I respect that! But if you print it -- print it all! (beat) My second son weighed 300 pounds and he died of a heart attack in the arms of a hooker in Paso Robles. My other son I lost all track of and my two daughters won't speak to me and my two ex- wives won't and my siter you know won't! Print it all! (beat) And Ty Cobb can't get it up anymore! Print that too! 
 It's all... confusing... (CONTINUED) 
 It's not! It's simple! You won! Tell the world that the greatest ballplayer who ever lived was also the biggest bastard! Who cares now?! I give you permission and my blessing! From here on it's your story! Stump nods and pulls a pint of whiskey from his coat pocket. He goes up to Cobb and tucks the whiskey under the blanket. 
 Here's a little something might help. 
 Where's my money? 
 Right here, Peach... next to your gun. Cobb grabs Stump's hand for one last word. 
 Stumpy, there's nothing wrong with wanting glory. (beat) Now get the hell outta here. 
 What about the gun? Did you get it? 
 Naw, I didn't get the gun... 
 (V.O.) I gave a few bucks to a local kid to re-paint the sign, and disappeared for a while to finish the manuscripts... (beat) And wait for Cobb to die... (beat) And while I waited, Ernest Hemingway blew his brains out, Getty bought Honolulu Oil Company, and the brunette in the courtyard ran away with a handsome young lawyer... 
 (V.O.) And on July 17, 1961... Ty Cobb died quietly in his sleep. I don't believe it was quiet, nothing he did was quiet, but that's what the newspaper writer said who wrote the lead and we all know that writers never lie... PAN OVER ACROSS the sign -- to the adjacent cemetery as -- 
 (V.O.) 'There is a fountain filled with blood, Drawn from Emmanuel's veins...' CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Somebody hired a singer... COUNTRY GOSPEL SINGER (V.O.) 'And sinners plunged beneath that flood, Lose all their guilty stains...' 
 (V.O.) ... but it was the grimmest damn funeral service I'd ever seen. 
 (V.O.) He left all his money to his family, though no members of it managed to attend the funeral, and with the rest he founded a hospital in his own name and an educational trust fund for poor Georgia children. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Only three ballplayers attended the service -- three oldtimers who he'd been supporting financially for many years, a fact he didn't want made public. 
 (V.O.) Somebody rounded up some Little Leaguers, probably so the press photographers would have some sob sister photos... the sort Cobb hated... except the press didn't bother coming. (beat) I'll give him this -- the family was under one roof again. 
 (V.O.) I called my publisher. The book was ready. Only I didn't know which one to turn in. 
 ... so a woman goes into a bar with a duck under her arm, sits down next to a drunk who looks up and says, 'Where'd you find that pig?' An' the woman says 'That's no pig, that's a duck.' (MORE) 
 BILL (CONT'D) An' the drunk says, 'I know, I was talking to the duck.' Bored laughter and another hit on their everpresent drinks. 
 Al! 
 Stranger!   Another round on me! Stump settles in at the table. 
 Long time no see, etc... 
 Good to see you guys... how's it goin'? Alan, how's that novel coming? Must be about done by now? 
 Uh, actually, I haven't started it yet... been kinda busy... 
 We all been busy... 
 Yeah, I know how it is... 
 We read that Cobb died. 
 Yeah... finally gave up the ghost. 
 So?   What was he like? 
 Were the stories true or were they exaggerated? (CONTINUED) 
 Tell us the truth, man, was he a monster? 
 Or was he just one of the guys? 
 The truth? 
 Ohyeah, the absolute truth, no bullshit, give it to us straight, etc... 
 The truth? Stump takes a drink and looks his friends in the eye. 
 A prince and a great man has fallen. Murmurs of deep satisfaction from the Cronies. Affirmation. 
 Yes, awright, we knew it... etc... 
 Helluva guy, eh? 
 A helluva guy, a great man, a misunderstood artist, a fierce competitor but a sweet man at heart... a gentle soul... As Stump starts lying to his enraptured audience, we PULL BACK AND UP, going FROM the intimate center of the table TO a cool distance, and -- 
 (V.O.) I published the lie and put the truth in a closet... 
 
 (V.O.) Cobb and his father and mother were together at last... (beat) The man had some deep, unexpressed sorrow that I could never know. I embraced him and I hated him... (beat) And I knew I would never write a novel, unless you considered 'Cobb' a work of fiction -- which I did not. 
 (V.O.) My friends were thrilled to hear that the Georgia Peach was a helluva guy -- it excused their own failures -- if Cobb was okay, then by God, they were okay... (beat) But finally I didn't lie for them, or the children of America, or somesuch hogwash -- finally I lied for myself. (beat) I needed Cobb to be somebody he was not. I needed him to be a hero. It is my weakness. 
 (V.O.) The book was a moderate success... The empty stadium, cavernous, half cathedral, half factory... 
. 
