 
 "HEADHUNTERS" 
 November 4, 2007 
 (V.0.) Think of the future, and events that will have already happened. 
 "By tomorrow, we will have flown to France." She turns to face her TENTH GRADE FRENCH CLASS. Though Alice's make up, earrings and practical flats are simple, there is an inherent elegance to their combination that hints at a more complex, if uncharted, interior. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Who can give me an example? Paul? NOTE: Throughout, all blocks of italicized dialogue should be 
 "I will have completed the assigned translation by the end of vacation." 
 C'est bon! Amber? 
 I will have failed French again by the end of the year. Alice pauses, regarding Amber with a pained sympathy. 
 En francais si'l vows plait? 
 So, the definition of the derivative of the function "f" at point "x" is..? 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Okay! Kyle? KYLE snaps his eyes up to Emma's face, tries to cover. 
 Um... I guess I'm a little lost. If optimists see a glass as half full, Emma's is in a constant state of cheerful, blonde overflow, even when a level of wilfulness is required. 
 Try to follow along. I really want you guys to get this! David? DAVID gazes back dumbly, stuck in an erotic fog. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Cindy? 
 Do me a favor, and let's just try to get to vacation. The class bell RINGS! 
 MEG (CONT'D) You can burn the school down as soon as we're back. 
 Got practice until five thirty, then I'll be by. 
 I'll see you then. Thanks. They kiss again and Richard takes off for the athletic fields, passing Meg as she comes from the school, waves. 
 Hey, Meg! Bon voyage! Alice offers a binder to Meg as she arrives at Alice's car. 
 I finished our travel binders! Meg takes the binder, looks it over. 
 Remind me again why we're taking phonebooks to France? Alice gives her a look. 
 MEG (CONT'D) I love my binder. I do. 
 Where's Emma? She knows we're meeting, right? 
 Forgot her purse. (watching the students) 
 MEG (CONT'D) You know, for the first time in a long time, I feel just as lucky as any of these kids. They may have their whole lives ahead of them but we've got a week in Paris. 
 Oh, that's right. I keep forgetting your life is completely over. So sad. I'm really going to miss you. 
 Funny. 
 Well, that was a close call! They turn to see Emma. crossing the parking lot holding a quality knock-off designer handbag over her head. 
 Look at her. The only teacher in Racine County that wears four inch heels in six feet of snow. 
 She always looks great, doesn't she? 
 (WITH AFFECTION) Damn her. 
 
 (ARRIVES) My passport was in here! 
 Where'd you find it? 
 Second floor girl's bathroom. Right where I left it. This 
-- 
 (SEES BINDER) Ooh, binders! Great! Alice passes one to Emma. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) You guys were so nice to ask me to come with-- 
 Emma, we're a team. 
 I'd just be sitting around the condo, trolling e-Harmony... 
 The fact that you have trouble finding a date-- 
 I'm telling you, it's this town! 
 Gives me less than no hope. 
 You know what we should do, Meg? When we're over there? we should all treat ourselves. Find a real salon. Total spa treatment. And I'm gonna get my hair done. Just like this! She holds up a European tabloid she's pulled from her purse, 
 Look at us. Meg and Emma turn to Alice, smiling. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) 
 Come on... Please... please... 
 She wants to see Paris, too! 
 Finn, if Edith goes to Paris with me, she can't go to Daddy's with you. Finn's brows come together as she considers this, then reaches for the dog. 
 MEG (CONT'D) That's what I thought. 
 MEG (CONT'D) Toothbrush? Seamus makes a face, drops his bag and heads back up the stairs as the doorbell rings. 
 Daddy! 
 
 Seam, why don't you take your sister to the car while your mom and I talk. 
 Can we get on the radio? 
 No. No. Meg watches her kids run to the squad car parked at the curb, just as KARYN (30's, also in uniform) emerges on the passenger side to meet them. 
 And no lights! 
 Hey, Meg! Meg lifts her chin in greeting, but that's it. 
 I uh... I heard from my lawyer. She said you'd signed your papers. Meg watches her kids climb in the car with Karyn. 
 GLENN (CONT'D) Guess that makes us official, then. 
 You and me? (a nod to the car) Or... 
 You and me, Meg. A beat as they look at one another, hold. 
 Mom! Seamus reappears, charging up the walk to pull Meg down to his level, hugging her. 
 SEAMUS (CONT'D) Have fun. 
 You have no messages. Leaning on the lip of the kitchen's bar, Emma presses the record button on her answering machine, then speaks with a put-on, coolly sophisticated,'jet-setting accent. 
 Hello. You've reached the home of Emma Lindgard. I'm afraid I won't be able to return your call right away, as I'm currently traveling. In Europe. But, please, do leave a message. 
 ". .She was known as 'The People's Princess'... Emma turns at the counter to see Princes Diana touring an African encampment with children on the television. 
 Ooh! She hangs up the phone and sits herself down at the coffee table where a game of solitaire is laid next to a microwaved Lean Cuisine dinner. She turns up the volume with the remote and gathers the cards, shuffling. Eyes glued to Princess Diana on television, Emma suddenly shoots her hands three feet wide, rifling the cards in perfect vertical formation like a seasoned cardsharp. 
 Special delivery. 
 That's it! I am good to go! 
 I'm proud of you, you know. Alice takes her glass and presses Richard down onto the bed, climbing on top of him. 
 Like Christmas when I was a kid. There's no way I'm going to be able to sleep tonight-- 
 Good for me. They kiss. 
 I mean, how long have I been talking about this? 
 Mmm... You were reading Colette. In the teacher's lounge. First time we met. Long time. Alice pauses as this lands somewhere deep inside. 
 RICHARD (CONT'D) This is just the beginning. 
 
 (BRIGHTENING) It feels like it. They clink glasses and Richard watches Alice tip her glass back then stop mid-sip to peer down at the delicate diamond ring sitting at the bottom of her glass. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) 
 Let's try it on. 
 But, we can't even celebrate-- 
 What are you talking about? We're 
 But, I'm leaving. I'm--. I'm getting on a plane in the morning. 
 
 (LAUGHS) Maybe I want to make sure you come 
 Let's do this when I get back. In a week. 
 Can you hear yourself? 
 Honey, listen, it's just the timing. I wasn't planning on this 
-- 
 Whoa. I planned tonight. Tonight was my plan-- 
 And it's great. This is great. You're great. But, Richard, I feel like I just need to do this one thing first. Then I can do the next. Then I can do this. (off his silence) Can you understand? There's a world I haven't even seen yet... Alice, hopeful, searches Richard's inscrutable expression a beat, then he turns away and gets up, ring in hand. 
 I thought we'd be seeing it together. (pockets the ring) Have a great trip, Alice. He heads for the door. 
 
 (STRICKEN) Richard, come on. You're leaving? 
 (without looking back) Maybe I'll see you in a week. Alice listens to his footfalls and the slam of the front door, then falls back on the bed, striking her head on the open suitcase, wincing. 
 
 Are we there?! 
 Bien venue. Alice looks up from her imprinted passport, smiles hugely. 
 Merci . 
 There it is! Esprit de Corps! Alice looks to where Emma points, seeing a small sky-blue flag at the end of a long staff held by MADAME VALERY (40s, pinched) their harried tour guide in a suit of the same blue. 
 Excuse me, are you Madame Valery? 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Hi, my name is Alice Perry-- 
 
 I'm traveling with my friends, Meg Kelly and Emma Lindgard-- 
 
 Well, that's great! 
 We're so excited! Madame Valery eyes Alice unfolding a map from her binder. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Now, I was hoping you could tell me which route the bus will be taking-- 
 
 (over bus's P.A.) On your right... Alice, squashed beside Meg on the over-crowded bus, whips her head up from her guidebook. 
 This is ridiculous... 
 Hey, Alice! Meg! Alice and Meg turn to Emma across the aisle, who hooks a thumb at CARL and DEEDEE (late 60's, both stout) beside her. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Can you believe? They're from St. Paul! On their honeymoon! 
 Waited a long time for this! But, we finally made it! 
 Alice, that's like you! (back to couple) We're here celebrating my friend Meg's divorce! 
 Try to remember that! We'll double back for the Chagalls! 
 
 (READING FAST) .Also called Nike of Samothrace. Greek goddess Nike, meaning victory. Two-twenty to one-ninety B. C. Okay, go! They head for the right stairs just as Madam Valery reappears, descending with her group on the left. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Oh. Alice turns Meg and Emma around to come back down. 
 Well, that saved us a climb. 
 (waving her camera) I got it! I got it! 
 Alice, I'll e-mail it to you. Meg looks up, catching Alice eyeing their surroundings. 
 (re: Mona Lisa) At least she's smiling. 
 (snaps to, smiling) What? No. I'm--. I'm just a little tired. 
 (a happy idea) 
 To jet lag. Emma and Alice raise their glasses to toast as WAITERS plunk down identical plates of steak frites before them. 
 MEG (CONT'D) To Alice. Best organizer. Best guide. Best friend. 
 To Alice! They clink glasses and Alice is suddenly jostled, just as she's about to sip, by Carl as he turns from the table behind her, spilling her wine. 
 Oh, Carl! 
 I am so sorry! 
 (mopping her front) 
 He was just looking for the catsup- 
 If you're not using it. As Emma passes the bottle of catsup, Meg offers Alice her napkin, and waiters sweep their plates away, replacing them with creme brulees. 
 Oh! No. Wait. Pardon, Monsieur-- 
 
 (RECEIVING CATSUP) Merci! He turns now, catsup in hand, to blink at the creme brulee that has replaced his own and Deedee's steaks. 
 Pardon, Madame, but... Madam Valery slowly raises her eyes from Alice's hand. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) I'm sorry, but-- 
 Are you apologizing? 
 They've taken our dinners away-- Madame Valery taps her watch and then her clipboard. 
 There were stragglers at the. museum. Now, I am behind schedule. 
 Toujour le suck-ez vous. 
 I researched at least a million 
-- 
 Well. This is the one we could afford. A beat as they consider the room and their lot in life. 
 MEG (CONT'D) It's only five nights-- 
 Five nights? Here?! 
 And, Alice, you said yourself, we'll hardly ever be in our room. 
 Here's your outhouse, Meg. Go nuts. Alice joins Emma at the bathroom door. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Me? I'm going to try to hold it. 
 Okay, Emma. Let's just unpack-- she turns for the luggage, nearly falling over at the weight of Emma's suitcase as she reaches to lift it. 
 MEG (CONT'D) Holy--! Alice, help-- Alice climbs onto one of the beds to help Meg lift. 
 Emma, what have you got in here? 
 Just the stuff you put on my list-- (off her look) And a couple options. The bag slips from Meg's grasp, crashing onto the foot of the bed which collapses, catapulting Alice onto the cot which flips up over her, knocking Emma into the tiny bathroom. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Hey! Come on, guys! 
 The Pont des Arts has it's name for the vast number of art students that come here to paint this famous city view... Meg and Emma, the worse for wear, trail Madame Valery at a distance with Alice who now leads her own handful of tour members, Carl and Deedee among them. 
 It's called the Pont des Arts because the Louvre was formally known as the Palais des Arts... Madame Valery stops ahead, turning back to take in Alice and her cluster of appreciative followers. 
 People! We must keep together! 
 "Point zero. Dez roots dee France." 
 It's from right here that all the highway miles in all of France are measured. They also say that if you stand on this exact spot, you are be destined to return to France in the future. 
 Oh, I'm in! Come on. Everyone! Together, they all step forward, arms entwined, laughing. 
 I want a picture! Of all of us! Alice looks up as Emma breaks away, to see Madam Valery leading her dwindling group from the great church. Madame Valery sends her charges to the bus, then heads straight for Alice as Emma tries to enlist a JAPANESE COUPLE to take a group photo with her camera. 
 My head count was short in the cathedral. 
 I'm sorry. I was explaining about 
-- Madame Valery sizes Alice up and taps her staff as the group forms around them, joined by the Japanese couple. 
 This flag? I do not carry it for my pleasure. 
 We were just on our way inside-- 
 Well, now you may head to the bus. 
 But, we haven't been-- 
 Which is why you must follow my flag! 
 okay. We will. I promise. But, these people haven't seen the 
 There are many churches on the tour. 
 But, this is Notre Dame! They need to see this-- 
 I assure you, they will see everything they need to see-- 
 
 You seem quite the Paris expert, for someone who has never been. 
 Ill bet she knows more about it than you! The Japanese wife frames the action with Emma's camera. 
 I might not have ever been here before, but... 
 We've waited thirty years-- 
 You tell her, Carl. 
 You keep rushing us through, like this is some kind of race-- 
 (SGUARES HERSELF) Now, I think I've been very nice. We're from Wisconsin. But, I'm telling you, I am not getting on that bus until my friends and I have seen Notre Dame. Meg and Emma exchange looks as Alice plants herself with folded arms and steely resolve before Madame Valery. 
 Perhaps, if Madame is not satisfied with my tour she could conduct her own. 
 What'd she say? Alice's eyes narrow in regarding Madame Valery and all fall silent a beat; a crowd anticipating fireworks. CLICK! The Japanese wife snaps a picture of the standoff, the sound of the shutter triggering Alice to action. 
 Whoa! Madame Valery, nonplussed, reaches out to reclaim her flag, but Alice jerks it further away, while the Japanese woman snaps picture after picture. 
 Carl, we're getting on the bus! Madame Valery lunges for the stick. 
 That was fantastic! 
 "A" plus! Alice, cheeks flushed, watches Carl waving goodbye from the 
 MEG (CONT'D) Alice, you okay? Alice brings the staff down across her knee, snapping it in two, casting the broken ends into the gutter as she raises herself to her full height. 
 Now, the real tour can begin! 
 Let's kick this town's ass! Alice marches forward as a few drops of rain fall. 
 I think it's starting to rain-- 
 Who cares? We're in Paris! What's a little rain? 
 1 Cordelia! They glance over at a few PAPARAZZI sharing the protection of the overhang on the far side of the entrance, as a camera flashes in taking Emma's picture. Emma smiles, blinks, confused as another photographer admonishes the first. 
 2 You're wasting your film. That's not her. 
 What're they saying? 
 Oh. Meg and Emma turn to gape as well at the DINERS and elegant tables inside as the rain hammers down. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) That, mes aims, is Paris. 
 You think they'd let me use the bathroom? 
 Wow. 
 
 Meet you in there. Emma heads for the ladies room, gaping at the lobby. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Wow... 
 Get us a table? Alice, we can't afford to eat here-- 
 My treat. 
 (hooking Meg's arm) We're going to do one thing right in Paris. I don't care how much it costs. They turn for the dining room, passing the front desk where CORDELIA WINTHROP SCOTT (dressed similarly to Emma, though at ten times the cost) unleashes her ire on the CONCIERGE. 
 And, just how do you propose I am to travel tomorrow, then? 
 I am sorry, but, there is nothing-- A MANAGER enters from the back. 
 Mademoiselle Scott, I have checked and there is no sign of a package-- 
 Marvelous. I'd like to see someone who speaks English, please. If there is such a person in France. The concierge and manager look to one another and back. 
 This is not English we are speaking? 
 These are cloth! She takes the towel into one of the stalls, closing the door behind her just as Cordelia strides in, stops at the counter. 
 
 (ACID DISGUST) France. Cordelia's cellphone RINGS! and she pulls it from her purse. 
 (O.S.) Hello? 
 
 (INTO PHONE) You would not believe these people. So rude! She takes her phone into the stall next to Emma's and closes the door just as Alice and Meg enter. 
 CORDELIA (O.S.) (CONT'D) And they wonder why none of us do Paris anymore! What I've been through--. And, Daddy is being 
 CORDELIA (O.S.) (CONT'D) He's making me go to Monte Carlo! 
 Emma? 
 (0. S.) Yeah. I'm here. 
 (O.S.) I don't know. Some auction. One of those foundations--. But, have I heard from them? No. And they were to take care of the plane--. Well, I'm certainly not going to go if, Wait, where are you? 
 (LISTENS) Reykjavik? Would I need a coat? A toilet flushes and Cordelia opens her stall door, heads for the counter, oblivious to Alice and Meg who freeze with their towels, blinking at her uncanny resemblance to Emma. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Do you know if there's an evening flight--? Alice and Meg turn to each other, then to Cordelia's reflection in the glass, their mouths hanging open. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Ooh, I think I can just make it. No. I won't even check out here. It's better if everyone thinks I'm being a good girl and taken the trip down to-- Cordelia stops when her eyes snag on Alice and Meg. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Let me call you when I get to the airport. It may take awhile... She gives Alice and Meg a devastating look up and down. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) It appears to be raining outside. Quite hard. She picks up her purse and exits without looking back just as Emma opens her stall door and joins Alice and Meg, who gape at her with towels in their hands. 
 Did you see those are cloth? 
 No, Emma, I mean, exactly like you. 
 Well, she sounded awful. And kind of mean. Alice, Meg and Emma, punchy and a little drunk, enjoy wine from enormous glasses as they finish their meals. 
 (draining her glass) She should be ashamed. Can you imagine having a room here and then not staying in it? An ANXIOUS WAITER races in, refilling Alice's glass. 
 
 (PERFECT MIMIC) Darling, I was thinking of ordering this entire menu, and then not eating it! 
 We should just take it. Her room. 
 And her trip to Monte Carlo! 
 Alice, how fast can you get a binder going on a trip like that? 
 
 (LAUGHS) Oh, I'd love to see that. Us in Monte Carlo. 
 What's so funny about that? We got in here. 
 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 (whispers to other) She is a monster! 
 Emma, you could be her! 
 
 Pardon, Mademoiselle Scott? The three look up at the manager in surprise. 
 I'm so sorry. Were we being too loud? 
 No, no, we are all very happy to see Mademoiselle Scott smile... A WINE STEWARD hustles up to the table with an ice bucket stand and a bottle of Champagne. 
 MANAGER (CONT'D) Please. In apology for our earlier misunderstanding. 
 Our misunder--? 
 Your dinners as well. With our compliments... The three women exchange glances as the steward begins to open the bottle and the manager bows, backing away. 
 Excuse me, Monsieur? 
 Oui, Mademoiselle? Emma smiles, broadly, batting her eyelashes as the steward pops the Champagne cork. 
 
-- 
 Scheize. Alice sees but one the thing: The Eiffel tower illuminated on the other side of a bank of French doors. 
 A view! There's a view. Alice races to push back the window sheers, revealing a staggering panorama of the city, the Seine, and the Eiffel tower in the pouring rain. The entire city of light is reflected in her eyes. 
 (O.S.) Now this is more like it! 
 There's whole other room in here! 
 Wait. What are you guys doing? Emma launches herself onto the enormous bed. 
 This is the room we were supposed to have! 
 On what planet? Come on. We were only going to take a look! 
 So, we're looking. (pops the Champagne) And we like what we see. 
 Meg! Meg takes the bottle and crawls up with Emma. 
 Alice, take a break, would you? We 
 
 (pats the bed) Alice, how many do chances do we get? For something like this? Alice considers, looks out the window at the streaming rain. 
 Okay. But, just until it stops raining. Then we go. 
 (makes room for Alice) Agreed. Alice climbs up and together, the three pass the bottle of Champagne as they study the ceiling's ornate plasterwork. 
 MEG (CONT'D) 
 (LAUGHS) I'm sorry, I just keeping thinking of the look on that woman's face! 
 I'm glad I got pictures! 
 I did surprise her-- 
 Surprised me! 
 Really loved that flag, didn't she? 
 Poor Carl and Deedee... 
 Do you think that if you sleep in a bed like this every night your dreams are different? Alice rolls to her side and the view of the Eiffel tower. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Like, are they bigger? You know? Do you dream a more amazing life? Meg kicks off her shoes, lets them drop. 
 Well... We'll never know. Seen from the bed, the light atop the Eiffel tower breaks through the dissipating clouds to swing a searching arc through the night sky... 
 
 What time is it? Alice's eyes fly open as she snaps awake. 
 Oh, yes. Yes... 
 
 (SHAKING MEG) Meg, wake up. We're in trouble-- Meg pulls herself up, sees Alice on the phone. 
 
 We'll be right down. Merci. She hangs up. 
 We were only joking! We didn't mean to--! 
 We'll tell them it was a mistake! 
 Alice? 
 Cordelia, your car is here. 
 Mademoiselle Scott! 
 Just keep moving. The three women increase their pace, but the manager catches up to them with an express envelope. 
 Mademoiselle Scott, this came for you this morning. The package you were seeking? Emma merely blinks at the offered envelope. 
 Take it. Just take it. 
 
 I'm afraid there may still be some 
-- 
 What? 
 Thank you so much but I think we'll 
-- 
 
 (LAUGHS) But, you can not walk to the airport. 
 
 (STOPS FAST) The airport? 
 It's fine. It's fine. We'll just have him drop us off... Alice and Meg look out the back window at the manager who waves them farewell, the doorman shooing photographers. 
 They really do think she's her... RIP! Alice and Meg spin to Emma as she spills the envelope 's contents. 
 What? I want to know where we're going. 
 We're going back to our hotel-- Emma holds up an itinerary with a big mischievous grin. 
 No. We're going to Monte Carlo! 
 No. We're not. 
 
 Alice, what's "prive?" Is that like an airline? 
 Emma, for crying out loud. Meg, you want to help me out here? 
 Hold on... I'm reading... 
 See? Meg wants to go. Don't you, Meg? 
 No, Meg, doesn't. Meg looks up from the itinerary, shrugs. 
 Trip's paid for, whether that girl takes it or not. 
 Oh! And somehow that magically makes taking it right? 
 What's the worst that could happen? 
 I can think of a lot of things-- 
 You're in charge. You want to go back to that hotel, okay by me. A beat while Alice looks between Meg and Emma, trapped. 
 MEG (CONT'D) 
 
 Okay. We go. We take a look around. We get on a train and come right back... 
 Anything goes wrong, we say it was a language thing, that we didn't 
-- 
 Now, I like that idea, because it's true! They fall silent as the steward appears with glasses of Champagne, wait for him to retreat. 
 Go, look, come right back. It's a good plan. Alice, Meg and Emma clink glasses. 
: 
 Okay! What do we want to do first? Check out the palace, or the beach? 
 Beach! Palace?! 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Let's find a map-- 
 JEAN-PIERRE Mademoiselle Scott! They turn as JEAN-PIERRE MICHAND (late 30's), sophisticated in jeans and a sportscoat but with a warm bohemian air, comes down the steps, an oversized envelope tucked under his arm. 
 Well, bon jour me. 
 JEAN-PIERRE You made it! I was getting a little frantic--. When I did not hear from you--. So I sent your 
-- (laughs at himself) But, you are here. (off her blank look) Forgive me. Jean-Pierre. Michand. With the foundation-- He pauses in shaking Emma's hand as his eyes land on Alice with friendly curiosity, a charge. 
 Oh, I'm sorry! This is Alice Perry and Meg Kelly. Two of my dearest friends. Visiting from America! 
 
 (SHAKING HANDS) Hello. Jean-Pierre has trouble pulling his eyes from Alice as he shakes Meg's hand. 
 JEAN-PIERRE It is a pleasure to meet friends-- 
 I'll say. Emma sneakily indicates Jean-Pierre's empty ring finger to Alice and Meg as he consults his wristwatch. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 JEAN-PIERRE I'm terribly sorry, but, I am already late for a meeting-- 
 We won't keep you-- 
 JEAN-PIERRE I just wanted to make sure you arrived safely and that I was here to greet you. 
 (AN AFTERTHOUGHT) Oh. And, of course, to deliver your invitations for the week, and the foundation's report-- 
 Invitations for the week--? 
 JEAN-PIERRE Various events. Leading up to the 
-- 
 His Highness? 
 JEAN-PIERRE The Prince. But, we will see each other at the casino for tonight's game. Please, bring your friends-- 
 You are very generous, and we'd love to, but, I'm afraid Cordelia has other plans this evening-- Jean-Pierre turns, charmed by Alice's perfect French, and alarmed by this news. 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 We're very sorry-- 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 (MOUNTING ANXIETY) Perhaps we have misunderstood each other. Mademoiselle Scott--. She must be there for tonight's game. The prince. His Highness has asked to be seated across from her-- 
 What's he saying? Which prince? Jean-Pierre looks imploringly between the three. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Please. It is for the foundation. 
 
 No, I can't. I can't stand it. Emma reads to Alice and Meg from the brochure in the seating area of their luxurious suite, enjoying none of it, nor the incredible balcony view of Monte Carlo's marina and bay. 
 "With your help The Michand Foundation is able to sow the seeds of education, transforming lives, families, and villages, one child at a time..." She didn't say anything about a school! 
 Schools, with an "s." More than one. 
 
 That horrible, irresponsible girl! I've never stolen a thing in my life, now I've taken a trip from school children. 
 In Africa. Meg hangs her head. 
 Reykjavik! That takes some nerve! They're counting on her for a charity auction and she doesn't even show up! 
 Only she did. Emma reaches for a gigantic wrapped fruit basket. 
 She did? 
 Do not touch that! 
 You, Emma. If you're Cordelia. They've seen you. You're here. 
 Well, I can't go to that thing tonight. 
 (A) I don't have anything to wear. The phone RINGS! and Emma snatches it up before Alice can. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 (INTO PHONE) Oh yes, please. Send it up... Um. Yes, all of it. Everything. Thank you, ever so. Merci! She hangs up and holds a beat before turning to Alice. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) My luggage is here. 
 Okay. But, just for tonight. And, that's it. CLICK! Alice and Meg look to Emma, holding the now open briefcase, eyes wide. 
 Lucky guess? 
 
 (CLOSING IT) No jewelry. Emma nods. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Then it.all goes back. 
 Dry-cleaned. 
 Don't you feel like we've won something already? Jean-Pierre comes to greet them with PRINCE DOMENICO DA SILVANO (30's, movie-star handsome), both in tuxedos, offering a hand to escort Emma down the few steps. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Mademoiselle Scott, you made it! Emma withholds her natural smile, placing just the tips of her fingers in Jean-Pierre's palm with exaggerated hauteur. 
 Enchante. Jean-Pierre assists Meg and Alice, Meg clutching the top of her dress, Alice anxiously keeping the skirt of hers in place with a hand as she steps down. 
 JEAN-PIERRE And Mademoiselle Margaret Kelly and Mademoiselle Alice Perry-- 
 (FOR ALICE) I am very glad you were able to come this evening. Alice nods, blushes and tries to cover. 
 
-- 
 Please, call me "Cordelia." 
 If you will call me "Domenico." 
 I shall certainly try. Domenico escorts Emma out onto the casino floor as Jean- Pierre touches Alice's elbow. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Shall we? Alice and Meg allow Jean-Pierre to lead them, following Emma as GAMBLERS break from their games to track these three elegant women gliding smoothly through the room. 
 (aside to Alice) I may as well be topless. 
 Please. I'm mooning everyone behind us. 
 Oh, but, I really wasn't planning on playing this evening. I so much prefer to watch-- Emma looks to Alice and Meg for help as Jean-Pierre leads them to the far side of a low railing to view the game. 
 
 (A) This I do not believe about you. He turns to the eight other PLAYERS (of various ages and genders, but all rich) clustered at the room's small bar. 
 DOMENICO (CONT'D) Ladies and gentlemen? Shall we begin? The other players make obligatory introductions and take up positions at the table as Jean-Pierre offers Alice and Meg tall upholstered stools to sit. 
 
 ALICE (CONT'D) And why aren't you playing? 
 JEAN-PIERRE Ah. I play behind the scenes. Like Robin Hood, I take from those who have more than enough, for those who have nothing but need. 
 (LAUGHS) Also, I do not play because I have no money of my own. Alice smiles, charmed by his candor, but then stops. 
 They're playing for money? (turns to Meg, flat) 
 Cordelia, why don't you do us the honor of setting this evening's stakes? Emma glances over to Alice and Meg who look back at her, ashen, and turns to the players who smile expectantly. 
 Oh. Um. Okay... She takes her handbag into her lap, opens it, looks. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 (A) Alright. Why don't... Why don't we start at ten? A shocked player sputters into his drink. Emma places a twenty Euro note on the table. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) That is if anyone is able to make change. A beat. Jean-Pierre, Domenico and all the other players burst out laughing and Emma smiles, laughing too, but shoots a desperate look to Alice and Meg. 
 Marvelous! He signals an ATTENDANT over as Emma's shoulders relax. 
 DOMENICO (CONT'D) Please bring Mademoiselle Scott a rack of chips. 
 
 (BIG GULP) Um. Sure. 
 JEAN-PIERRE You would not know it, but she is very funny. 
 A riot. Domenico casts a glossy chip into the pot. 
 Mademoiselle Scott starts us at ten thousand a hand. Alice and Meg freeze, their champagne glasses sliding from their hands, while Emma's eyes grow as large as all the zeroes on Domenico's chip. 
 DOMENICO (CONT'D) You must be feeling very lucky. 
 Mademoiselle Scott? It is your call. 
 (takes bottle from waiter) I should probably keep this. 
 
 Well... She moves her hands to the stacks and stacks of chips beside her, and pushes them to the center of the table. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) 
 JEAN-PIERRE Are you alright? 
 Great. I'm just--. Excuse me. Alice slips around the railing and heads for Emma as two players fold in near tears, leaving just Emma, Domenico and a DOWAGER (60's) in the game. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) I'm terribly sorry to interrupt. But, Cordelia, you look a little overheated... Why don't we--? 
 (WHISPERS LOW) .Have you completely lost your mind? 
 
 (WHISPER BACK) Hey. Don't distract me. I'm in the middle of a hand-- 
 Emma! That isn't Monopoly money! 
 Relax. I've got it under control-- 
 And this isn't the mathletes finals in Kenosha! 
 Jean-Pierre, would you be a dear and get Alice some water? 
 What?! 
 I will see you, Cordelia. Domenico pushes his own mountain of chips to the pot in the center of the table and Alice buries her face in her hands when the dowager folds her cards. 
 (whisper to Alice) Now, go sit down and try to be cool, would you? Jeeze! Let me handle this. Alice moves back to her stool, tries to smile as she takes the water Jean-Pierre offers. 
 What'd she say? What'd she say? 
 
 (SICK) We're going down, Meg. Going down hard. 
 Mademoiselle. Your Highness. Your 0 cards, please. 
 Ladies first. 
 After you. Please. Domenico can hardly contain his gloating as he reveals his three aces. 
 I am very sorry, Cordelia. A beat, then Emma shrugs. 
 Well. It is just a game after all. She turns her cards over and fans them on the table felt: A royal flush in the suit of hearts, ace high. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) I do hope there are no hard feelings. The other players cheer as Domenico's smile crashes. Emma shrieks with delight, turning to Alice and Meg who grab each other, barely keeping themselves from pitching over, glasses spilling, as the other players applaud. Emma rakes in the Everest of multi-colored chips with both arms, laughing as she's congratulated. 
 You must play often, Miss Scott. 
 Oh, a little, online. But, this is so much more fun! 
 Not even a last drink in the bar? 
 It's been such a splendid evening, I am reluctant to press my luck any further. 
 Yeah. Good call, Cordelia. DING! The elevator arrives and the doors open as Domenico leans in towards Emma. 
 Then you must promise to dance with me at my party tomorrow. Emma evades Domenico by stepping onto the elevator. 
 Oh, Delmonico-- 
 "Domenico." 
 I would not miss it for the world. 
 Great meeting you, your Highness. Good times. Really. Jean-Pierre places his buckets in Alice's hands, a certain frisson to the simple exchange. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Tomorrow night? 
 Wait! Before Alice can respond to Jean-Pierre, Emma takes one of the buckets from Alice and hands it back to him. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) You must keep this one. For your foundation. 
 JEAN-PIERRE But, your family has already been 
 She really believes in education. The doors start to close. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Good night, then. 
 And, welcome to Monte Carlo. The doors close, leaving Jean-Pierre and Domenico to gaze fondly where the three women had just been. They both sigh and turn for the bar, when they hear shrieking from the elevator as it rises above them. 
: 
 Would you like these put on your account, Mademoiselle Scott? 
 No. Thank you, we'll be paying 
-- 
 But, it would be darling if you could have them sent round our hotel. 
 Wait. You know what, on second thought, I'm not getting these-- She pulls the pair of jeans from her pile of clothes. 
 But, they looked amazing on you! 
 Where was I ever going to wear them? Seriously? 
 You wear them here! Anywhere! Alice, you tell her-- Alice opens her mouth, but stops herself as the three wander the crowded market stalls heaped with fountains of flowers in every color, breads, fresh produce, trinkets and souvenirs. 
 No. I'm not going to tell you what to do. 
 Thank you. It's silly, anyway. They're just jeans. I want to find something for the kids-- 
 Oh, Meg! Look! For Finn! 
 EMMA (CONT'D) How perfect is this?! 
 Even better! Alice holds up a pair of pink satin toe shoes, swinging them from their ribbon laces. 
 
 RICHARD (CONT'D) How much do I owe you for that? 
 Hey, Richard! Richard glances up to see Glenn crossing the parking lot with Seamus and Finn, pushing a cart piled high with groceries. 
 GLENN (CONT'D) 
 (CLOSING TRUNK) So, we'll see you at seven then-- 
 And that's two with sausage, extra sauce, no onions-- 
 Thin crust. 
 Got it. Richard picks up Alice's suitcase. 
 Are you going to France, too? 
 No. I just-- Glenn turns, noticing the suitcase for the first time. 
 Whoa! Hold on! You're going to surprise Alice--? 
 I love surprises! 
 What? No, I--- 
 Oh, man, I win! Richard blinks as Glenn claps him on the shoulder. 
 GLENN (CONT'D) Meg and I've had this bet going: She thought it would be on Alice's next birthday, but I knew it was going to be this trip to France! 
 Glenn, listen-- 
 Don't worry! I won't blow it for you! I won't call anyone, ruin the 
-- 
 (PLAYFUL PUNCH) You sly dog! You've probably booked the best suite in Paris. Am I right? Got the ring, the whole show--. This is so you! 
 (confused, but flattered) So...me? 
 Sure! That's why Alice loves you. You get how much this trip's meant to her; now, you're just putting the icing on the cake. The big gesture, you know? Not too dominating: Supportive. Loving! (shakes his head) You're the man, Richard. Big props. Glenn pulls Richard into a big happy bear hug. 
 GLENN (CONT'D) Congratulations. 
 Glenn. She said, no. 
 Oh, no. No. I'm sorry. I'd like to. But... The woman is confused, vaguely insulted. 
 MEG (CONT'D) I don't have a kitchen. No place to cook. 
 She is only a visitor. Without a kitchen. But, it is a beautiful fish. Maybe next time. Meg turns to find Bernard beside her. 
 BERNARD (CONT'D) I have explained. Meg hesitates uncertainly before this friendly stranger. 
 Well, thank you... She smiles at the woman and starts to walk away, only to find 
 You are American. Meg glances at Bernard and away, uncomfortable, but curious, drawn by his warmth and the familiar greetings he exchanges with various vendors as they walk. 
 From Wisconsin. Yes. Bernard reaches a handkerchief from his jacket for Meg. 
 You cook in Wisconsin? Meg uses the handkerchief to blot the remaining tomato juice. 
 I try. But... We don't have even half of this at home. She points to a tray of miniature lobsters. 
 MEG (CONT'D) Like those. I've only seen them in magazines. 
 Ah, langoustines. Many ways to 
-- 
 I'd go for a saute, being a Midwestern gal. 
 Court-bouillon. 
 
 With sea water. Amazing. 
 So, you cook. Bernard dips his head modestly. 
 As you say, "I try." (offers his hand) Bernard. Rochand. Meg shakes his hand and returns the handkerchief. 
 Meg. Kelly. Thank you again for 
-- 
 And, how long are you in Monte Carlo, Meg? Meg's brow furrows slightly and she turns to head back. 
 I need to find my--. . My friends are around here somewhere... 
 I will help you find them. We can 
-- 
 
 (LAUGHS) Look. It was nice to meet you-- 
 "Bernard." 
 Yeah. But, I'm gonna walk myself. Thanks, though. She slips into the moving crowd, leaving Bernard to watch as she meets Alice and Emma further up the street. He holds a beat, then turns when called to by a vendor. 
 It's been two days and it didn't occur to you to call anyone? 
 She refused to follow my instructions. She sabotaged my tour. Ruined it for everyone! 
 Wait. Alice did? Alice Perry? 
 She took my flag! 
 But, if their luggage is still there, then they're missing-- 
 Missing? What the--? 
 How do I get in touch with the police? 
 Hey, I'm the police! 
 Are you the police in France? 
 The police? Monsieur. Nothing could keep her from seeing Paris her way. Believe me. She was very determined. 
 
 What's she saying? 
 You are the husband, yes? Richard hesitates, looks to Glenn. 
 
 Alice, she's fine... 
 Actually, sometimes Richard and I go to Madison's on Saturdays-- 
 (stops dancing, laughs) The gay bar? 
 (shrugs, matter of fact) They've got the best music. 
 I am so butting in on that. Alice laughs and spins, crashing directly into Jean-Pierre. 
 JEAN-PIERRE And I was looking for you! From the edge of the dance floor, NIKOLAI LUDOVIC (late 30s), squat, bald, completely nondescript but for his white tie and tails, watches Emma ardently. He stops a waiter, taking his tray of Champagne flutes. 
 Ooh! Thank you! I'm so thirsty! Nikolai remains planted, holding his tray with a smile, watching with bright eyes as Emma drinks. She lowers her glass and her full attention snags on Nikolai, really registering his presence now as she searches his warm, gentle eyes. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) It's a wonderful party, isn't it? Nikolai nods and offers her another glass of Champagne. Alice, dancing with Jean-Pierre, subtly repositions herself in order to keep an eye on Emma. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Cordelia, she can take care of herself, yes? 
 What? Oh, yeah, of course... Meg dances by herself, having a great time, taking in the room, the music and the people, when a handsome MAN begins to match her moves, insinuates himself. She smiles but shakes her head as she moves away, turning her back to evade him. Another gorgeous MAN sidles up to Meg, joining her solo dance, wiggling his eyebrows invitingly. 
 No, thanks. She moves off only to be met by GIORGIO (40's, sexy, Euro- suave) who smoothly steps in. 
 MEG (CONT'D) 
 
 Don't you need to, like, circulate? 
 Ya znal, chto naydu tebya. Emma blushes as though showered in compliments. 
 Really? 
 
 Yes? 
 Do you not know who I am? Emma's smile falters as she glances furtively about. 
 Um. 'Course I do... Hi. 
 Penelope. Penelope Penrose. Penelope's chin quivers as she reads Emma's blank look. 
 PENELOPE (CONT'D) I spent a year in hospital-- 
 Hospital? What happened?! 
 You did! You happened! Alice swivels around at the raised voices, spots Penelope facing Emma. 
 
 Don't pretend you don't remember! Third year at Le Rosey! You threw my luggage in the pool. Set fire to my mattress. You cut off all my 
-- 
 What? That's awful! 
 While I was sleeping 
 She did that to you? 
 
 That was just the first night. 
 Say you're sorry, Cordelia. 
 (WHISPERS) And let's get out of here! 
 Alice, no--. Wait a minute-- 
 (to Alice and Meg) she turned all my friends against me... They had to send me away... To live with the nuns-- Emma grabs Penelope by the shoulders. 
 Now, you listen to me, Penelope Penrose. You have no idea how long I've waited for this moment. Penelope flinches, preparing for a beating. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) But, I had no way of finding you after you left us, and...Oh, Penny. Don't you see? Don't you know that I was just jealous? Alice and Meg exchange looks. 
 
 You were so smart. So clever and 
-- 
 I was ugly-- 
 No, Penny. I was ugly. I was a monster. 
 Penny Pignose. That's what you called me-- 
 Because, I knew I could never compete! Not with anyone as special as you. 
 You thought I was special? Emma looks at Penelope, nods emphatically. 
 You want to know what I've waited for all these years, Penelope Penrose? Penelope shakes her head almost imperceptibly. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) To do this. Emma opens her arms wide and pulls Penelope into a hug. She looks at Alice and Meg over Penelope's shoulder, and then closes her eyes with genuine emotion for a beat, pulling back to smile into Penelope's grateful, tear-streaked face. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Now... Friends? 
 (raising a glass) To friends! old and new! Emma seizes Penelope's hand from across the table, placing it in Domenico's as she drunkenly sings the old Girl Scout song. 
 "Make new friends and keep the old, one is silver and the other's gold!" Alice and Jean-Pierre lean toward each other intimately' across the packed, lively table of PARTY-GOERS. 
 JEAN-PIERRE But, no one really lives here. Monte Carlo. It's like Hong Kong. People merely come and go. People like me. Well, and then, people like yourself. 
 People like me? 
 JEAN-PIERRE People with money. This is why I come. I help assuage their guilt when I remind them that there are children in this world who do not have clean water to drink, while they drink Champagne. 
 And that works? Jean-Pierre blinks, then bursts out laughing. 
 JEAN-PIERRE I take myself far too seriously. 
 No. I'm sorry, I didn't mean--. I've seen the pictures of the schools. The work you do is 
 JEAN-PIERRE And I'm afraid I talk about it because I myself am not that interesting... (a hand on her arm) I'd rather know about you. 
 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Oh, brother. Meg sits further down the length of all the tables laid end to end, beside Giorgio, who has pulled his chair close, draping an arm casually across the back of hers. 
 Okay, wait. You're a man, right? 
 MEG (CONT'D) Yeah, I know: I'm funny. But, see if you can answer something for me. Ten years you're married, to the girl you dated in high school. I'm talking the girl you lost your virginity to, the one who gave you two great kids that you're just crazy about. Then one morning, what? You wake up, and out of the blue, it's like, "Oh, hey, honey, I think I'm in love with this other woman..." 
 (PAUSES) His patrol partner. A beat as Giorgio shakes his head sadly. 
 MEG (CONT'D) I thought I was his partner. Giorgio takes Meg hand, more in comfort than come on. 
 You heart feels betrayed. 
 (telling a secret) I feel like I failed. 
 I tell you this: A man...he will always love the mother of his children. Meg blinks, taking this in. 
 GIORGIO (CONT'D) Now you must kiss someone else. 
 
 (LAUGHS) Oh, I see-- 
 To break the spell. You must! Then you will be free. A plate of beautifully arranged langoustine is placed on the table in front of Meg. 
 Oh, I'm sorry, 'I didn't order-- She looks up to find Bernard standing in chef's whites. 
 (smiles, nods) Madame Kelly. He heads toward for the kitchen before she can say anything. Emma pours sloppy glasses of Champagne for her companions as though playing a game of tag, spilling wine. 
 And you're my friend...and you're my friend. . .and you're my-- She turns with the bottle to find Nikolai who has materialized beside her on the long banquette. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Oh, hey! You were at the party! Do you work here, too? Nikolai cheerfully shakes his head, holds up her purse. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Oh! Did I forget that? Wow, what a lifesaver! Thanks! 
 Ti takaya vaskhititel'naya. Emma sets the bottle down to concentrate on Nikolai. 
 You're not from here, are you? 
 (points to himself) Nikolai. 
 The stars are still out. Ahead, Emma breaks away from Penelope and Domenico, leaving the two to walk on together as she comes back toward Alice. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Where's Meg? Alice looks around and sees Giorgio walking alone among the strolling party guests. 
 I thought she was right behind us-- 
 Papa, sit down. Rest. 
 
 You enjoyed your meal? 
 Adding the fresh orange; nice. Bernards nods, accepting the compliment. 
 MEG (CONT'D) But, a little fennel would've been "wow." 
 Next time, you cook. 
 Meg! What are you doing? Come on! We're going to watch-- 
 We were--. We're going to watch the sunrise. Meg hesitates, turning between her friends and Bernard. 
 
 (SMILES) You should not miss it. 
 The guy from the market? 
 He is so cute! And a cook--! 
 Chef . 
 And you're single now! Meg slows to a stop, stands a beat. 
 
 You know, Julia Child didn't take her first cooking class until she was thirty seven. 
 
 (SMILES) I told you that. 
 It's coming, Cordelia! The sun! 
 We'd be getting up now. 
 If we were home. 
 But, we're not. 
 Cordelia! The spell is broken by a TRIO OF PAPARAZZI who spring to life by the hotel's entrance. 
 Cordelia! Cordelia! 
 Oh, good! I want a picture! Of the three of us! All of us! The paparazzi swarm from the steps towards Emma. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) By the fountain! She runs for the sprays of water, pulling Alice and Meg, and the paparazzi meet them, flashing away. Leaning against the fountain's balustrade, Emma gestures for everyone to join them. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Penelope! Come on. I want one with everybody! Penelope, Domenico and Jean-Pierre join with other members of the group and Emma lines them all up. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Okay! Ready? One, two-- 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Wait! Wait! Niki! He shakes his head, bashful, but Emma gestures him over, swinging her arms wildly. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Nikolai, you, too! I need all my friends--Whoops! Her feet zip out from beneath her and she sails backwards over the balustrade, reaching for Alice and Meg, pulling them with her as the camera's flash. 
! 
 Excuse me. Pardon me. Richard skirts around a man with a newspaper to retrieve the bag and heads for customs. As Richard exits, the man folds his newspaper to its bold headline: SCOTT MAKES A SPLASH!, and a huge photograph of Emma, Alice and Meg laughing together in the fountain. 
 Alice, have you seen my sandals? 
 Okay, there's a two o'clock and a four o'clock train to-- 
 Train? Where are you going? Alice looks up and takes in Emma's costume. 
 Where are you going? 
 I'm going to the beach. With Penelope. Meg enters through the suite's door carrying a bakery bag. 
 Breakfast is here! There's this fantastic bakery around the corner. I've already had three brioche. And I saw the greatest little shop for the kids, but they weren't open 
 I don't know. She's talking about train schedules... Emma trails off as she and Meg and Alice look between each 
 We need to start packing, right? If we're going back to Paris-- 
 Back to Paris? 
 That was the plan-- 
 What plan? 
 We're not staying for the auction? 
 We were just going to come down, take a look around and-- 
 That was before we knew it was for a charity. Remember the kids? 
 In Africa. 
 The ones we stole a trip from? The kids who are paying for this room? 
 Alice, what's with you? We'll pay for the room-- 
 We're rich! 
 So, I'm the only one worried about the fact that we're lying to everyone we've met? 
 Lying? To who? Jean-Pierre? 
 You're the one who said we had to go to the casino-- 
 And now I'm apparently the only who's worried we might get caught. 
 She's in Iceland. 
 One of her friends is bound to find out, or her family-- 
 What friends? 
 I've got friends. The doorbell rings and they turn their heads in unison, then look to each other with sudden alarm. A beat. Emma goes to the door, finding Penelope, also dressed for the beach, who holds up the newspaper with it's fountain photo. 
 Have you seen? 
 Oh, my god! We look great! (ushers Penelope in) Alice, look! Alice takes the paper, Meg reading over her shoulder. 
 
 (LAUGHS) We have got to get that in the yearbook. 
 Yearbook? 
 Penelope, could you excuse us? 
 Oh. of course. Where--? Alice shows Penelope to the bedroom, closes the door and spins to face Emma and Meg. 
 
 (HUSHED PANIC) This is what I'm talking about! This is why we have to go-- 
 Doesn't it mean we have to stay? 
 Oh, this is so typical. Just because it's not on your map, 'cause you didn't plan it--. We all agree to take this adventure and then you won't jump. 
 I won't--? Jump? Meg drops into a chair, mumbling an aside to herself. 
 Now I know how Richard must feel. Alice comes to a full stop and gapes at Meg, stung. 
 Richard...? 
 
 (FEEBLE APOLOGY) I'm just saying... 
 Well, you're sure one to talk. Meg's eyes flick up to Alice. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) You can't even bring yourself to buy a pair of jeans anymore-- 
 Okay, you know what? Let's just pack. It's not fun anymore. Alice, if you think we should go, then that's what we're gonna do. You're in charge. Meg scoffs, an exasperated exhale. 
 No way. Not anymore I'm not. You want to go to the beach? Go to the beach. You want to go the market? Go! "Liberte, egalite, fraternite!" 
 What does that mean? Alice snatches up her purse and heads for the door. 
 It means everyone should do exactly what they want. 
 Exactly. 
 Alice, wait! Where are you--? You're not going back to Paris--? 
 
 (off Emma's look) Don't look at me like that. The door opens, and Alice re-enters, striding across the room for the desk, not looking at either Emma or Meg. 
 I just--. My guide book. She picks up her book and crosses back to the door. 
 Alice? She glances up to find Carl and Deedee from the tour. 
 We thought that was you! 
 Oh! Carl! Deedee! Alice is surprisingly overcome and impulsively throws her arms around both of them. 
 Well, we're sure surprised to see you, too! 
 But, what are you doing here? How did you--? 
 Well, when we saw how you stood up to that Madame Valery--! If Alice can do that, we thought, what the heck's holdin' us back? This is our honeymoon! 
 I was scared, but then, well, you only live once! And as long as we've got each other-- 
 We've got everything, right? Alice blinks, unaccountably teary eyed. 
 Yes. That's right. 
 Sometimes you've just gotta follow 
 Tell the girls we would have loved to see them, but-- 
 Italy calls! And Greece! We're even thinking of hitting Turkey! Imagine! We'll send you postcards. 
 Enjoy every second of it! 
 You, too, honey! 
 Bon voyage! The car pulls away, Carl and Deedee turning in their seats to wave at Alice through the rear window. Alice waves until they are out of sight and slowly lowers her hand, standing alone in the street. A beat. Alice sighs and pulls out her guide book, unfolding a map as she looks up to gather her bearings. She takes in the quiet street, the view of the ocean, then looks back at the map in her hands. 
 is Go. Go home. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Don't follow me. I have no idea where I'm going... The dog cocks its head in comment. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Okay? Alice turns to climb the street's incline. The dog follows. 
 Madame? 
 Just one. He leads her to a table along the wall and holds out a chair. Seated, Meg follows him with her eyes to the kitchen where Bernard works furiously at the stove, tossing the contents of a sauce pan with an expert flick of his wrist. Bernard glances out to the dining room, seeming to sense Meg before knowing he'll find her there. 
 Where is Meg? I do not see her. 
 No. I... I don't think she's 0 coming. I'm sorry. 
 Cordelia! There she is! Cordelia! The trio of paparazzi putter alongside in a small boat, peppering the yacht with their camera flashes. Emma looks out at them, without her usual animation. 
 PHOTOGRAPHER (CONT'D) Smile, Cordelia! Please, smile! Emma waves, but can't seem to manage that smile. 
 Ty v poryadke? Emma turns to find Nikolai standing beside her in white tie, a piece of cake extended in one hand, a fork in the other. Emma's eyes light up as if a switch has been thrown and the flash of a camera records her huge, dazzling smile. 
 Niki. He bows slightly, offering the cake. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) You work here too? You never get a night off... He smiles, shaking his head, hands her the cake. 
 Ya sa-meey shas-li-veey che-lo-vek na zem-le, pa-ta-mu chto u me-nya yest' tee. Emma hangs on every incomprehensible word. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) Vy menya panimayete? 
 Oh, Niki... I'm so glad you found me. 
 Seamus. He's ten. Built a website for his fourth grade class. Now he's got actual clients. And that's Finn, the prima ballerina. She'll be six in June-- Emile examines photographs of Seamus and Charlotte from Meg's wallet while she refills their glasses at the kitchen table and Bernard works at the stove. 
 Elle est coquin, oui? 
 Oh, she's no chicken. She's not scared of anything-- 
 
 (LAUGHS) Not a chicken. He says, she looks like a rascal. 
 
 MEG (CONT'D) But, that's a nice word for it. 
 I'm open! I'm open! Alice sails down the makeshift soccer field as one of the kids passes the ball to her, chased by the others. She dodges and kicks the ball through the goal to score. Her "team" jumps and cheers, as do a collection of spectators who have gathered to watch this tall red headed woman in a summer dress racing around the dusty lot with a band of kids. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Go! Go! 
 But, she is perfectly safe. 
 Yeah. No. No way. Bernard straddles a beat up moped, motor running, as Meg shakes her head emphatically. 
 I can not take you, if you will not get on. 
 What do you want me to tell you? I'm not getting on that thing. Bernard fixes her with a level look, which Meg mimics. 
 
 Hold on. 
 How do you say "faster?" 
 The best chefs of Monte Carlo. They come here to drink and show off. The end of every night. HENRI (60's, a bear in chef's whites) lumbers towards them. 
 No! No! No! We are only cooks allowed here! 
 Ah, but, this is why we've come! I have finally found someone who can teach you how to cook! 
 (turns to the table) A chef from America! Come to flip hamburgers! 
 I'm up! I'm up! Let's go! She sets off down the field with the kids. 
 It doesn't seem fair. Leaving you to clean up all alone. 
 (THINKS) I'll help. But, you've really got to talk to your boss. Nikolai laughs, shaking his head. 
 Ya ryadom. 
 It must get kind of lonely sometimes... Not being understood. 
 (PAUSES) I know how that can feel. Nikolai holds up the napkin he's transformed into a crown adorned with flowers and the wire cages from Champagne corks. Emma looks at him, her face soft and vulnerable, open, as Nikolai places the makeshift crown on her head with care. 
 
 
 EMMA (CONT'D) You get me. 
 (V.O.) What's the most amazing place you've ever been? 
 JEAN-PIERRE (V.0.) Hard to say. There are many. Alice steps out onto the hotel's roof with Jean-Pierre's jacket over her shoulders. 
 (V.O.) Well, Africa, then. How often do you get to go? He leads her around the maze of skylights to the front of the building that faces the sea and the lightening sky. 
 JEAN-PIERRE (V.0.) Not enough. Mostly I am on planes. To the places where sunlight and parties make people generous. 
 That seems a shame... 
 JEAN-PIERRE But, I can think of one place I have never been. It is in my imagination only, so it is very special. He places an arm around Alice as they take in the view. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Come with me. 
 What? 
 JEAN-PIERRE To Dubai. I leave the day after--. What is today? Friday? I leave tomorrow. You could come too. You wouldn't need to bring anything. 
 But--. Jean-Pierre... (a near confession) You don't know me. 
 JEAN-PIERRE This is why I ask. I would like to know you, Alice. Very much. Alice regards him a beat, then slowly pulls his jacket from her shoulders. 
 Before this, I'd never even been to France. Jean-Pierre blinks and Alice laughs, as much at herself. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) It's true. Just kept putting it off. Always managed to find an excuse. But, really, it was that I was afraid. That it couldn't ever live up to the France I'd imagined. And if it did... Then I'd never be able to go home. 
 JEAN-PIERRE And, now? Alice gently places Jean-Pierre's jacket in his hands and steps near to kiss him on the lips. 
 But, thank you. She turns and opens the door with her key as Jean-Pierre smiles ruefully. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) For everything. Alice steps into her room and closes the door. 
 Excusez-moi...I'm looking for the train. To Monte Carlo. Behind him, Cordelia strides through a set of doors to stop directly at Richard's back as she searches the terminal and hisses into her cellphone. 
 Yes, Daddy, I'm here. No, I do not see a driver. Yes, I am looking! The attendant points over Richard's shoulder to an exit. Richard begins to turn in Cordelia's direction, but the attendant corrects him, pointing the other way. 
 Merci. He picks up Alice's suitcase and heads off just as a UNIFORMED DRIVER approaches Cordelia. 
 Mademoiselle Scott? 
 Where have you been? The driver leads her away, neither she nor Richard having taken note of the nearby newsstand and its display of today's front page: Emma on the yacht wearing Cordelia's necklace. 
 
 (WITH REGRET) I have to open the restaurant. 
 Thank your father for me? 
 I will, Meg. 
 Thank you. Meg hugs him briefly, awkwardly, then turns for the steps. 
 Goodbye, Meg. Meg stops, holds a beat with her back to Bernard. Then she turns and marches to him with purpose, seizing his face in both her hands and kisses him passionately. She releases Bernard, who staggers against the moped, catching himself just before going over, as she turns again for the steps, an enormous smile on her face. 
 (leaving a message) Well, I wish you were there. Or here. I wish you were here, Richard. I do... Because I keep thinking, no matter what I see, I'm only seeing half of it. Because we're not seeing it together... Meg lets herself in the front door and heads for the bedroom, stopping when she overhears Alice on the phone. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) I'm sorry, Richard. I hope you'll be there when I get home... Because that's all I want. Alice hangs up the phone, so lost in thought she doesn't see Meg standing at the door. 
 
 Oh. Hey-- (taking Meg in) Hey! You bought the jeans! They look great--! 
 (tearful, comic) Alice, I am so sorry! For what I said. About you. And Richard. I didn't mean any of it! I love you. I don't know how I would've gotten through the past six months if it weren't for you-- 
 No. It's okay. You were right-- (bursts into tears) Oh, Meg! I made a huge mistake! 
 Wha--? 
 Richard asked me to marry him-- 
 Wait. What? When? 
 I told him we should wait a week! 
 No. You didn't-- 
 I did! He surprised me! 
 Alice... 
 I'd imagined him asking me a million times, but then when he did, I just panicked. suddenly all I could think about was the trip. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) That I hadn't already been to France. It was like this wave, all the years, and chances I'd had but didn't take, they just crashed down on me: And I hadn't seen anything but the end of Lake Avenue. The only clear thought in my head was, "this guy is so wonderful, how can he marry half a person?" 
 But, Alice. You were going. We were on our way. 
 I thought he was asking me to make a choice. But, he wasn't. He wasn't doing that at all. It was me. Because I couldn't believe he loved me just for who I was. France or no. 
 (PAUSES) All I had to do was say, "yes." 
 Honey, Richard knows you... It might feel like it's over. But, 
 
 (hands off paper) Thanks. I couldn't find--. I musta left my key someplace... (on a cloud) But, what does it matter, really? When I already have everything I'll ever need... Alice exchanges a look with Meg as Emma swans across the suite to tear open on the fruit basket, pluck out an apple, and drape herself across a chaise. 
 I'm trying to follow you-- 
 I'm in love! I am! Oh, you guys, I'm in love with Niki... Nikolai... Nikolai. And, I don't care if he is just a busboy. Or waiter. Whatever he is... Alice unfolds the paper, taking in the image of Emma wearing Cordelia's necklace. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) It's funny if you think about it. I could have had a prince. A real one. But, I wanted my Niki-- (a big bite of apple) Hey. Why are you guys crying? 
 I thought we said no jewelry-- 
 No--? What jewelry? 
 What? Alice holds up the newspaper. 
 Ooh, that's a good one! 
 The necklace, Emma! Emma's face clouds as she distractedly reaches a hand to her bare collar bone, then flicks her eyes up to Alice. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Emma, where's the necklace--? 
 The yacht! There! I left it on--! 
 Are you kidding me?! 
 (O.S.) Cordelia! Cordelia! They look directly down to the base of the hotel where the trio of paparazzi call as Cordelia emerges from a limousine. Alice and Meg look at each other, stricken. 
 Oh, hey. What's she doing here? 
 Mademoiselle Scott! Cordelia looks at him with typical, withering disdain. 
 The driver was late. The clerk's smile falters, fades. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Hello? I'm checking in. 
 
 Beijing? Oh, I want to come! Will you wait for me? 
 I can be there in, say, a day-- 
 (INTO PHONE) Of course, they've screwed this up as well--. Who else is going? The bellhop opens the bedroom doors, revealing the tower of Cordelia's luggage, crowned by the reassembled fruit basket. Cordelia, unimpressed, indicates the bags the bellhop holds. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Put those with the others-- 
 (INTO PHONE) Wait, wait! She spins away for the French doors, twisting their handles, and throwing them wide. 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Stavros is supposed to be here, isn't he? I don't see his boat! Alice carefully turns to Meg and Emma who look back her with desperate faces from the balcony on the far side of Cordelia, where they balance with their shopping bags. 
 (O.S.) Mademoiselle? 
 
 (INTO PHONE) Majorca?! Hold on. She does a quick turn, marches inside. 
 Yes? He nods, not quite with his hand out, but waiting. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) If you're done, you may go. The bellboy turns but hesitates in catching a quick glimpse of Alice, fleet as a gazelle, as she passes the open doors on the balcony behind Cordelia. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) I said, you can go. He bows a retreat, backing out the door. 
 They're locked! 
 MEG (CONT'D) No. Forget it. Alice laces her fingers together, turning to Emma. 
 Emma, help. 
 
--- 
 You're first. There's a door on 
 The roof?! 
 Why'd they have to park so far out, anyway?! 
 One point five million Euros, Emma! 
 I said I was sorry! You think I would have worn it if I knew how much it cost? Busy fighting, none of them notice as Nikolai's boat passes fifty feet off their side. 
 What am I going to tell my kids?! How am I'm going to explain to Glenn that we're in a French jail? 
 For the auction, Emma! 
 My kids'll be in college when we get out! They won't even know me. 
 None of us knew that, Alice-- 
 Trespassing. Burglary. Oh, god. Grand larceny, by trick and 
-- 
 For the children--! 
 In Africa. I know! 
 I'm standing in a stolen boat! 
 Well, sit down then! Nikolai's wake hits the dinghy, rocking them hard. 
 It was right here! 
 Oh, I can't believe this... Meg doubles over, hands on her knees as Emma stands over the empty spot on the landing. 
 Are you even sure you took it off? 
 Definite "yes." 
 Well... Were you this close to the edge? I mean, it could've fallen-- 
 Do not even say it! 
 0 You know, I'm getting a little tired of this. Just because I 
 Emma, we're not talking about a pair of sunglasses! 
 We don't have time for this! Let's just split up! Alice you go fore, Emma take the aft, and I'll check the cabin. Emma glares at Alice with steely, narrowed eyes. 
 Alright. Fine. 
 (PAUSES) Which way is aft? 
 Yes? 
 Ya khotel by perepisyvat'sya s vami. 
 Excusez moi, monsieur? 
 Nice boat. No necklace. 
 Where is he, anyway? 
 He just works here. I don't-- (an idea forming) You don't think he could have taken it, do you? 
 Who knows?! I mean, is there anyone who understands a word he says?! 
 
 (STRICKEN) Oh, this could all be my fault! He probably thought he needed it, to finance our new life together. The temptation was just too much for 
 Emma, it's your fault because you wore it in the first place! 
 He works like fifteen jobs already! You don't know what it's like being around rich people all the time-- 
 Actually, we do. 
 
 
 (INTO CELL) Gratitude, Mummy. That's what I'm talking about. It's just so unfair the way Daddy assumes I've nothing better to do than-- The hotel phone rings, interrupting her complaint. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Hold on. She picks up the ringing telephone at the desk. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) 
 (LISTENS) I cannot understand you. She hangs up, heads for the fruit basket with her cell. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) Mummy, Mummy, I'm just saying I wish someone, anyone, would consider my feelings. Just once. She snatches up an apple from the basket without looking. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) You go ask him how much he thinks a simple "thank you" might cost. She hangs up her cell with a sniff and raises the apple, stopping when she sees where Emma has eaten. She recoils, dropping the apple, which rolls across the carpet and hits one of Emma's sandals beneath the desk. Cordelia approaches, looking down to discover the other sandal in the wastebasket, along with Emma's broken plastic tiara, room service dishes, and the newspaper. 
 Well, we're just going to have to talk to her. 
 Oh, yeah, that was the first thing that struck me about her. How reasonable she seemed-- 
 (seizing on the idea) Yeah, we'll just explain. 
 We should have sailed that yacht right back to Wisconsin-- 
 
-- 
 You think she'd fit in one of those trunks of hers--? 
 Meg? 
 Just thinking out loud. 
 You never know. She might understand. 
 I need to find this woman-- The clerk puts up a finger as he lifts the receiver. 
 Une moment, Monsieur. Pardon. Behind Richard, Nikolai crosses from the bank of house phones for the elevator, stopping to pluck a flower from the lobby's arrangement. 
 (on hotel phone) Send security! Immediately! This is Cordelia Winthrop Scott. I've been robbed! 
 Pardon. 
 (INTO PHONE) 
-- The clerk stops, spotting Emma as she, Alice and Meg, sprint past the front desk and Alice wipes out, tripping over her own suitcase on the floor beside Richard. 
 Oh! Richard whips around to see Alice spread-eagled on the marble floor as Meg and Emma slide to a stop. 
 Alice? 
 Richard! Richard--? 
 RICHARD (CONT'D) Alice! 
 Wow! Richard! Richard drops down to help Alice as she struggles up, dizzily finding her feet to stand. 
 Honey, are you alright--? 
 You got my message. 
 I had no idea where you were. I looked all over Paris, but, I 
 COULDN'T FIND-- 
 You went all the way to Paris? 
 A week's an awfully long time. 
 Longer in France. 
 Excusez moi, Mademoiselle Scott? 
 Hey, Francois! How are you--? 
 
 CLERK (CONT'D) You are still robbed? 
 No! (dials it down) A misunderstanding. We're fine. She's fine. 
 Super fine. 
 Richard, we've got to-- (sighs, in love) I can't believe you're here--! 
 
 (grabbing Alice's arm) It'll just take a minute! We'll have her right back! 
 Don't worry about a thing! 
 (holds up newspaper) Like this? 
 
 (KISSES RICHARD) I'll explain everything! I promise! They take off for the elevator. 
 Boy! Does he love you. 
 
 (GLEEFUL) Did you see he fixed my suitcase? 
 (O.S.) Oh, thank god! Cordelia opens the door to Nikolai, who holds out the room key and flower with a smile as her brows come together. 
 Lechu k tebe na krylyah lyubvi. 
 Security? They look at each other in confusion, Nikolai's smile fading, Cordelia with mounting alarm. She slams the door in his face. At the end of the hall, the elevator doors open for Alice, 
 Niki! 
 The necklace! 
 Don't touch that bell! They race down the hall towards Nikolai, who gapes, perplexed by the sight of Emma. 
 Oh, Niki! I knew it! I knew it! I believed in you the whole time! 
 Yes! Police! This is Cordelia Winthrop Scott. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) In the Grimaldi Suite at the Hotel de Paris. You must come straight away. I've been robbed! And now some horrible, foreign man--! I believe someone is trying to kill me! 
 Wait for me in the lobby, sweetie. Down in half a second-- 
 Ya tebya lyublyu. 
 I know. Me, too. The doors close and Emma sprints back down the hall to Alice and Meg at the door. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Okay! Do it! Alice rings the bell. 
 Yes? Who is it? 
 (voice dropped low) Security, Madame. 
 Finally--! She opens the door. A beat where Cordelia focuses on Alice and Meg first, possibly remembering them, then she registers Emma. She blinks, completely nonplussed. 
 We can explain. 
 Pardon? Is there a problem--? 
 We received a report of an attempted murder in the Grimaldi Suite. Cordelia Scott-- Richard, sitting nearby, looks up at the mention of Cordelia's name, at the same time that Nikolai takes a seat at the far end of the same sofa. 
 No. No. It is robbery. But, Mademoiselle Scott said it wasn't. Jean-Pierre, checking lists at the ballroom's entrance, notes the commotion and Cordelia's name, joins the group. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Excuse me. What's--? Mademoiselle Scott has been robbed? 
 No. She said, not. 
 She said someone was trying to kill her! We are going up! Richard seems to debate getting involved as the police, the clerk and Jean-Pierre head for the elevators. Looking over, he notices Nikolai, who smiles and nods. 
 You can save your "sorrys" for the 
-- 
 The police--? 
 You robbed me! 
 But, the necklace is right here--! 
 You stole from me--! 
 
 We haven't taken anything-- 
 And, we dry-cleaned the dresses-- Meg and Alice wince, look daggers at Emma. 
 
 (ICY DISGUST) You wore my clothes? 
 Well... For the children. 
 Wha--? What children? 
 In Africa. 
 
 (IMPATIENT) This whole thing is for charity. Your necklace is for the auction. 
 Well, there will certainly be no 
-- 
 But, that's not fair! It's not the 
 CHILDREN'S FAULT-- 
 Look, you weren't here. Everyone thought she was you-- 
 
 (INCREDULOUS LAUGH) Thought she was me? Who could possibly believe--? 
 They all did. Cordelia looks at Alice a beat as this lands with her. 
 (drives it home) Every one of them. 
 But, look at you! Emma takes a step towards her doppelganger, facing off. 
 Well, look at you! 
 
-- 
 
 (DRIPPING CONTEMPT) Common country cows playing dress up. Pretending to be something you're not. Trying to be something that not one of you could ever hope 
 You mean miserable? Cordelia blinks. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Or a petty, spoiled, selfish-- 
 
 (REELS BACK) You--! 
 Bitch! Cordelia slaps Emma across the face. Alice and Meg gasp and they all stand a beat in shock. 
 You apologize to her right now! 
 Apologize--?! 
 You know, I feel sorry for you-- 
 I don't. 
 Because no matter where you go, no matter where you jet to in this world, you are still going to be you. (points to Emma) And, let me tell you; she is who you want to be! The all freeze when a BANGING erupts at the door. 
 (O.S.) Mademoiselle Scott? It is the police! Open up! Alice claps a hand over Cordelia's mouth, looks to Meg. 
 (mouths the words) The police? 
 Mademoiselle? Open this door! 
 (O.S.) Coming! Just a moment, please! The captain grabs the key from the clerk and turns the handle, just as Alice coolly opens the door from within. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) Bon jour. 
 
 (FEIGNED SURPRISE) Cordelia, it's the police. Emma turns her head from the mirror she faces. 
 Oh, no! This is going to be so embarrassing. Please tell me you didn't run all the way over here just for me. 
 You said there was someone trying to kill you-- 
 It was a robbery, but, no. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Alice, what's going on? 
 A terrible misunderstanding. You see, she couldn't find her necklace. 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 (PANICKED) But, you have it? 
 Yes, but, Jean-Pierre, would you be a dear and help me? I can't seem to manage the clasp. Jean-Pierre senses something amiss, but steps to assist Emma. 
 We heard a scream-- 
 When she found it-- 
 
 She was so happy-- 
 Relieved! I screamed with delight. 
 And there is no one that wants to 
 
 You said on the phone-- 
 She said she would die. If she didn't find it-- 
 The necklace! 
 Yes! Alice turns her brightest smile to the captain. 
 And this is the necklace? For the auction? 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 Extremely! Think of all the schools we'll build! (to charm captain) Do you like it? 
 (falling for it) Allow me to escort you, Mademoiselle. As a precaution. Emma, spots one officer poking his way toward the bedroom. 
 (seizes captain's arm) Oh, but, yes! Would you? What an entrance I'll make! So dramatic! 
 Let me just grab my purse. 
 You okay in here? Meg sits on top of Cordelia who is tied to a chair with a scarf, the fruit-basket apple jammed in her mouth. 
 We're great. But, now you can add 
-- 
 
 (RE: CORDELIA) Well, don't tell her that. Throw me a purse. 
 Moy angelochek? Richard jumps up when he sees Jean-Pierre escorting an anxious Alice from the rear of the battalion. 
 Alice? Alice winces as she sees Richard approaching, at the same time Nikolai rushes to Emma. 
 Niki, I'm sorry. It's just going to another minute. 
 Ya sdelayu vsyo, chto smogoo-- 
 Perfect! That sounds good. Emma is led to the ballroom by the captain as Richard meets Alice and Jean-Pierre in the center of the lobby. 
 (quick, preemptive) Richard, this is Jean-Pierre, Jean- Pierre this is Richard, my fiance-- 
 (BLINKS) (BLINKS) Fiance? Fiance? Jean-Pierre offers his hand to shake, smiling knowingly. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Ahh... A pleasure to meet you. You've come for the auction--? 
 Yes! He came all this way! Richard tightens his grip on Jean-Pierre's hand. 
 Alice? Who is this guy--? Alice breaks Richard's vice grip with a bright smile. 
 I told you, that's Jean-Pierre! 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 Is there something I need to know? Alice looks at Richard, reading his face, and smiles. 
 No. There's isn't. She leads Richard through the ballroom entrance only to be stopped by an ATTENDANT. 
 Pardon, Monsieur, invitation--? 
 He's with me! As Alice pulls Richard through to the ballroom, Nikolai steps to the reception table behind them, producing an elaborate invitation from inside his jacket. 
 Oh! Monsieur Ludovic! Welcome! As Nikolai is ushered into the auction with great fanfare, the lobby's revolving doors turn and Bernard enters, carrying Meg's bottle of wine. 
 You will never get away with this. 
-- 
 Believe me, nothing would make me happier than having a little talk with your father-- Both their heads swing toward the door when the bell RINGS! Meg jumps to Cordelia, stuffing the apple in her mouth just as she opens it to scream. 
 Bernard...? He holds out the bottle of wine. 
 We forgot your prize. 
 Oh, I... She glances back into the room behind her, carefully obscuring Bernard's view through the half open door. 
 I have come at a bad time? 
 No. No, Bernard, that's not it. 
 I'd invite you in, but-- 
 I think--. You are busy. I think now I go-- Meg reaches out to stay him with a hand on his arm. 
 No. Bernard, wait-- CLICK! Meg and Bernard both turn their heads to look down the corridor when Cordelia sticks her head out the bedroom door into the hall. A beat as Cordelia and Meg lock eyes. DING! The elevator doors open at the end of the hall, closer to Cordelia. She looks back at Meg for an instant then bolts as Meg leaps past Bernard into the hall. 
 MEG (CONT'D) Hey! Stop! 
 The bid is three hundred thousand! Alice stands just off to the side on the floor below, between Richard and Jean-Pierre, with Penelope. 
 so, they all think she's this Cordelia Scott because... 
 It's for a school, Richard-- 
 In Africa. 
 
 Five hundred thousand! 
 Oh,no... 
 JEAN-PIERRE Yes ! 
 
 Five hundred, five hundred fifty thousand! 
 But, Meg! Why do we run? Meg stops on a landing, turns. 
 Bernard, you should stop. You really don't need this. I may be going away for a long time-- 
 To America? 
 Something like that. Look, this is where we should say "au revoir." Bernard smiles and pulls Meg to him, kisses her. 
 But, I must see how this ends! 0 He grabs her hand and they plunge down the stairs together. 
 Eight hundred! The crowd applauds happily. 
 Niki. What are you doing? 
 Vsyo, chto ya de-la-yu, lish dlya. 
 Well, don't. Just stop, okay? 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 
 JEAN-PIERRE That's Nikolai Ludovic-- 
 He means no harm-- 
 JEAN-PIERRE Alice. Lithuania? 
 Yes? 
 JEAN-PIERRE He owns it. Alice blinks. 
 The bid stands at eight hundred 
-- 
 No! No. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm terribly sorry, but, there's.. 
 EMMA (CONT'D) Put your hand down, and I'll be done in a second. Then we can go. 
 JEAN-PIERRE Mon dieu! 
 Emma! Jean-Pierre reacts to Alice's "Emma!" as she breaks away. 
 Alice--! She climbs the stage to Emma before the baffled audience. 
 Alice, he doesn't understand. It's like a foreign language to him-- 
 Actually, it's not. Let him bid. 
 But, he'll get in trouble-- 
 
-- 
 One million! 
 Nikolai! You cannot bid against yourself! 
 One million Euros! 
 No! Stop! Stop! I'm sorry. I can't... I cannot allow this sweet, wonderful man to buy this necklace, because... (finds the courage) It is not mine to sell. 
 No. It is mine.. 
 Oh, shhhh-- 
 Merde. Richard, Jean-Pierre, Penelope, and Domenico all swing between the two "Cordelias," as Meg makes her way forward with Bernard. 
 Arrest those women! They are imposters! A wave of comment sweeps the confused crowd. 
 Wait! Penelope steps up onto the platform, shielding Emma and Alice as the police come forward and Meg climbs up. 
 PENELOPE (CONT'D) These are not imposters! These are my friends! 
 Penelope Pignose?! 
 And, you were never anyone's friend. Alice takes in the escalating situation, steps bravely forward to the front of the stage. 
 It's true! A ripple of exclamation sweeps the dumbfounded crowd. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) We're not who we said we were. We're... We're only high school teachers. From Racine, Wisconsin. 
 (turns to captain) There! You see? 
 We'd never been anywhere. And we took a trip, that didn't belong to us... Because, well, because you thought we were... important. And that she was Cordelia... Richard smiles at Alice, supporting her with his gaze. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) We wanted to help. 
 
 
 We're very sorry. And, we're willing to face the consequences, whatever they are... But... She turns to Meg and Emma as a smile blossoms. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) But, this was our adventure. 
 And it was an excellent one. 
 We wouldn't change a minute of it. 
 Not for anything in the world. Richard takes the pulse of the frighteningly still crowd, the, hesitating police, the charged air in the room. 
 one million five hundred thousand! The crowd gasps and Alice gapes at Richard. 
 RICHARD (CONT'D) Why not go big? 
 One million six hundred thousand! 
 Penny, you don't have to... 
 Friends. Right? 
 Excellent! We have a bid for one million six hundred thousand! Cordelia whirls to the police captain amidst applause. 
 Why are you just standing there?! Arrest them! 
 Arrest them? For what? They seem very nice. 
 One million six hundred thousand! Do I have another bid? 
 They confessed! They're imposters! They stole my necklace! 
 That necklace? But, it is here, no? 
 They kidnapped me! 
 And yet you are here. I see no problem. Everyone is very happy-- 
 Excuse me, but, I'm not happy! 
 Ah, but, this... 
 (GALLIC SHRUG) I can do nothing about. 
 Three million! The crowd erupts, giddy, their applause escalating. 
 Three million Euros! 
 Nikolai! No... 
 Emma. It's okay. 
 How? How can it be okay? 
 He's rich. 
 JEAN-PIERRE 
 (LEAPING IN) SOLD! To Monsieur Nikolai Ludovic! For three million Euros! The crowd cheers, overwhelming a forgotten Cordelia as it 
 Richard... 
 
-- 
 Take me home? 
 Anywhere you want, Alice. We'll go anywhere you want. They kiss as Meg finds Bernard who shakes his head with a broad smile, holding out the bottle of wine. 
 Oh, good. I could use a drink. 
 First prize. To the champion. 
 (scared, shaky) Niki? What's going on? 
 Ya das-ta-nu to-be zvyoz-dee. Emma nods, without any real understanding, as he indicates the necklace. 
 NIKOLAI (CONT'D) Is my gift. For you. Emma's eyes slowly come into focus as it all becomes clear-and she FAINTS. 
 This is for our room. And the trip down. 
 The rest is for the schools. Jean-Pierre hesitates in accepting the envelope, but Alice presses it on him. 
 Please. 
 JEAN-PIERRE You are all extraordinary women. 
 
 (SHAKING HANDS) Thank you. Meg turns to Bernard, holding up the bottle of wine, as Richard places Alice's suitcase in the trunk with their shopping bags. 
 You come to Wisconsin, we'll drink this in my kitchen. 
 Yes. They embrace and Meg turns with Alice to Emma who stands arm in arm with Nikolai. 
 Now, Emma, you're sure about this? 
 I'll call you both as soon as I know. They may have to get a sub at school for a couple of weeks, but, oh, you guys, I swear it sounded like a proposal! Alice and Meg turn to Nikolai who grins and nods away. 
 Yes! Yes! 
 Yes, Daddy! It was a huge success-- She stops suddenly, as if struck, and her expression of perpetual anger melts away as she listens, blinks. 
 CORDELIA (CONT'D) 
 That's not her. That's the other one. 
 (V.0.) "I used to wander aimlessly,/ Wanton my goal, grievous my plight./Your dear hands led me, guided me." Alice encircles Richard's waist as they walk, and he slings an arm around her shoulder, kisses her hair. 
 (V.0.) "Over the far horizon, night/ Glowed with the pallid hope of dawn./Your eyes' glance was my morning light." A YOUNG GIRL presents a length of brightly woven fabric, draping it over Emma's shoulders as Emma picks the girl up and the other children lead Emma and Nikolai inside. 
 (V.0.) "No sound - save his own tread upon/The ground - to ease the wanderer's heart./Your voice encouraged me: 'go on!"' 
 "Yes, my heart - dark, cowed, set apart,/Alone - bewailed its dire distress./Sweet love, with its all- conquering art." The entire classroom hangs on her every word. 
 ALICE (CONT'D) "Joined us as one in joyousness." A beat as she and her class float on the last phrase of Paul Verlaine's poem. 
 0 
 Everyone should go. At least once in their life. 
 (PAUSES) There's a whole world for you to see. 
 
