 
 You know it. I'm gonna bang all sorts of chicks this weekend! 
 Sorry, honey. Adam gives his beautiful fiancee a playful kiss. She shows him some PHOTOS. 
 Check out that young stud. Can you believe he's about to get married? Lily and Adam look through more PHOTOS of a YOUNG (17) partying at a SKI RESORT with his FRIENDS: -- In full 80s SKI GEAR on a mountain... -- Eating PIZZA at "Papa Enzo's," stuffing their faces... -- Drinking BEERS at the "Brew Haus," an awesome pub... -- In the HOT TUB with SIX GIRLS... Adam snatches the last photo from her. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Ignore that one. Nothing happened. 
 (BEAT) I love you. Lily laughs. 
 LILY (CONT'D) Who's this? Lily shows Adam a PHOTO: -- A SMOKING HOT SKI BUNNY (23, blonde, svelte, leg warmers). 
 I'm not sure. 
 Oh! Jennie. 
 She's nobody. Ski instructor. (off her look) You didn't know me yet. Lily still looks at him a little hard. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Lily, I was 17. She had boobs and a face. Of course I'm gonna take her picture. Lily still looks a little bothered. 
 Of course not! I think of you. As Adam goes to EMBRACE her: 
 Sweetie? She comes out a moment later with a CARDBOARD BOX, which she empties onto the BED. About FIFTY PORNO MAGAZINES spill out, ranging from TITS MONTHLY to BLACK ASS. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) How did you know where I hid my... treasure? Lily carefully picks up a BROCHURE from the pile, holding it by the corner, not wanting to touch it. 
 OK! You caught me! I occasionally... reminisce... about Jennie O'Keefe! 
 (without missing a beat) About two hours ago when you were on the phone with your mother. 
 What are you so worried about? 
 Baby, the girl in that picture was nothing more than a crush. I could never get her and there's no possibility I'll ever be with her. She was a total stranger. Lily gets a CURIOUS LOOK on her face. 
 Well not the creepy "your mom was in an accident, now come with me" kind. But yeah, the hot lady in the supermarket kind of stranger. You have to admit - it's kinda hot. 
 You kidding me? It would be fucking incredible. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Wait a minute. Are you suggesting... yes. YES! Adam excitedly heads for the door. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) OK, I'll go down the hall. You get into character. (points at her) This fucking rules. Adam leaves the room and Lily REMOVES HER SHIRT, talking sexy and slowly building the fantasy... 
 (O.S.) Love where you're going with this, baby! Keep it up! She unbuttons her pants and SLIDES DOWN HER JEANS. 
 (O.S.) You should probably take them off! 
 (O.S.) Sorry! Continue! You were just about to take off your panties! She slowly slides out of her panties, kicking them away. Now she's TOTALLY NAKED. She continues to role play. 
 OK, so this asshole in front of me at the donut place is -- WHOA! Lily covers up and SCREAMS. 
 Fuck! Ow! I'm sorry. I'll clean it up. That's gonna stain, though. 
 Special delivery for -- Jesus Christ! The black man doesn't know which way to look. He covers his eyes and drips coffee, as he blindly steps toward the door. 
 
 Yeah. 
 (REALIZATION) Wow. 
 Babe, look at Nick... In the car, Nick air drums to whatever's on the radio. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) You think with him in charge, we're gonna get into any kind of trouble? We'll probably eat too much pizza and I'll twist my ankle getting off the ski lift. 
 Sandwich. Thanks. He puts it in his BACKPACK. She looks like she was expecting a different reaction, but she lets it go. He kisses her. 
 I told you, I'll call you when-- She snatches it out of his hands. Adam looks confused, as she pockets the phone. 
 LILY (CONT'D) Just make sure whatever happens, you're back for the rehearsal dinner. 
 (SHOWING CONCERN) I totally trust you. 
 You should. I'm a lame-o. 
 I'm more than willing to forget about earlier, but this shit's going on Facebook. 
 I have no idea what Facebook is. My phone has a button that says Send To Facebook. I've been sending shit there for months. Adam looks out the window, smiling. 
 I'm so psyched about this weekend! 
 Ditto, buddy. I'm gonna help you make up for all the good times you missed when you were being a responsible member of society. 
 You're a good friend. I'm sorry for putting my career and self sufficiency above bowling night. 
 This trip represents everything awesome about being a dude. 
 NICK (CONT'D) We're gonna drink too much, eat whatever we want... 
 Live the dream. 
 Best of all, we don't have to answer to anyone. Nick's PHONE rings and he answers it with his built-in BLUETOOTH. His phone voice is a little more "sensitive." 
 (V.0.) Three goddamn bags of pretzels? 
 (V.0.) Hi Adam. (a little calmer) Nick, what have I told you about buying snacks that aren't on sale? 
 (V.0.) And what did you do? 
 (V.0.) That's not the point. 
 (V.0.) Call me from the road. Adam, say hi to Lily. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Don't her parents own the supermarket? 
 The whole damn chain. 
 This looks like a place where people die. Mostly from murder. A BALD, miserable-looking GUY in his late 30s (LOU) exits a room, carrying TWO SHOPPING BAGS. He gets in the back seat. Adam looks happy to see him. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Lou! 
 Yes, I'm living in a transient motel. Let's get that purple elephant out of the room. 
 Dude, it looks nice. 
 Thank you. I hate your guts. 
 (re: the bags) What'd you bring? 
 All my belongings. 
 So you're sorta like a bum now, huh? 
 In a sense. 
 Our system is fucked, gentlemen. You tell me how a whore wife can fuck some black dude - no offense - and still take her cuckold of a husband for all he's got. 
 Why would I take offense to that? 
 It's offensive. 
 Because he's black? 
 And because he's fucking my wife. And because you're black. And because of all the oversensitive horrible garbage... you know what? Forget no offense. Just offense. Are you offended? 
 Not really. 
 Then shut the fuck up. 
 She's got a hell of an attorney. 
 Yes and thank you so very much for giving her the referral. 
 She told me it was for a friend. 
 So... what? Your wife likes black dick now? 
 I'm gonna slaughter you in your sleep tonight. 
 (turns to Lou, genuine) Thanks for coming, man. 
 Oh, Adam's stupid brother's coming? Boo! Drive away before he gets in the car! 
 Be nice. I know Jacob's kind of a douche, but I'm trying to be closer to him since Mom died. Jacob gets in the back next to Lou. 
 
 You look dirty and you smell bad. 
 You look gay and you smell like a basket of fancy soaps. Advantage me. 
 How is that to your advantage? 
 He's not gay. He's just... what are you again? 
 Metrosexual. 
 You have sex with trains? 
 For your information, I fuck chicks. Hot ones. 
 For your information, you fuck dudes. Gay ones. 
 Yeah, well at least I'm young and my life's full of potential. I hear you're homeless now? 
 (to Nick and Adam) You told him?! 
 (GRIMACES) I hate all you people. 
 Will you two please shake hands and make up? We're gonna be spending a lot of time together. Jacob distractedly TEXTS on his phone. 
 Yeah, about that. Why aren't we going to Aspen? Vermont's lame. 
 It's gonna be fun. 
 Yeah, whatever. And with that, the guys travel in silence for a few moments, the lifeblood drained from the car. Finally... 
 I've gotta take a shit. 
 That was an ugly experience. 
 I don't wanna hear about it. 
 In a few years, when I'm dying of an exotic disease that causes my penis to bleed until it falls off, someone remember to tell the hospital to check out the filthy crapper at the Albany Rest Stop. It's the AIDS monkey of toilets. The guys put down their sandwiches. 
 Thank you. 
 I don't know how you're doing it, man. I mean, Laurie's hot, don't get me wrong. 
 
 Right. Lily. But one vagina? Forever? 
 That's the sacrifice. Jacob nods, agreeing with Lou's concern. 
 And you're OK with that? I don't know your sexual history, but you sure you got it out of your system? 
 I did OK for myself. 
 He didn't do that well for himself. 
 Yeah, isn't Lily your fourth? 
 Fifth. Thank you. 
 So you're averaging like one girl every eight years. 
 Assuming I got laid when I was zero. 
 That would be awesome. Adam gives Lou a distasteful look. 
 I'm fine. Maybe some cold feet, but that's normal. Thank you everyone for your concern. 
 Just looking out for you. That's what brothers do, right? They look out for each other? 
 (takes a moment) Is this about something else? 
 Forget it. 
 No, let's do this. I'm sorry I wasn't around when you were growing up, OK? I was in college. And then I was working. Dad left. Someone had to take responsibility. 
 Boooooring! 
 
 I said forget it. 
 Guys, come on. Let's move past it. This is gonna be a fun weekend. 
 I still say Vermont sucks. 
 You're confusing Vermont with yourself. This weekend is going to be incredible and you will not ruin it for me. 
 (softens, to Jacob) You might like it. Havenhurst is pretty awesome. Jacob shrugs, but Lou gets excited. 
 Fuck yeah it is! We're gonna ski the trail and bone some tail! 
 
 (LAUGHS) You'll have to bone some of that tail for me, man. 
 Fuck that. You'll bone your own. 
 No I won't. 
 Adam, trust me. Biggest mistake of my life - not fucking a whore at my bachelor party. 
 That's the biggest mistake of your life? 
 Fuck yeah. And he's not making that same mistake. 
 Uh... I'm not having sex with anyone this weekend. Lou looks at Adam, trying to figure things out. 
 Ohhhh. I gotcha. 
 I'm not having sex this weekend. Without the winking. 
 
 (WINKS AGAIN) I understand. 
 I'm pretty sure you don't. 
 Gentlemen... welcome to Havenhurst. 
 Yes! 
 so this is the coolest town ever? 
 Oh man. The Brew Haus is a PF Chang's. Lou notices a TGI Friday's, with a sign advertising a "Hannah Montana 3-D Experience!" He looks utterly disgusted. 
 I don't even have the heart to tell you what I just fucking saw. But say goodbye to Papa Enzo's. This town sucks. 
 What the fuck is going on? The car climbs a twisty part of the road. 
 NICK (CONT'D) Please god let it still be there... 
 What? 
 Pink Paradise. Best strip club ever. The car rounds the corner and a SIGN comes into view. The beginning reads "Pink." 
 Yes! It lives! The car continues to climb and the whole sign comes into view: "Pinkberry." 
 I wanna die. 
 
 
 I'm not playing drinking games with my grandma. 
 OK so the place skews a little older. Let's check in. We're not spending our time inside anyway. 
 
 (CURT) Hey buddy. I'm not gonna tell you again. I fuckin' got it. Adam backs off. 
 This guy's a dick. 
 
-- 
 No, fuck that. 
 (LOUDER) He's a dick. Oooh tough guy. He's gotta be Mister America. 
 Captain America. 
 Go fuck yourself. Phil finally drops their bags at their room and then: 
 I'm ready to be tipped. 
 
 (SELF UNAWARE) You, sir, have no tact. Nick gives Phil a bill and he walks off down the hall, leaving the guys outside their room. 
 Gentlemen... in this room lies the beginning of our awesome weekend. 
 Or a continuation of everything that's sucked so far. 
 Yeah, I bet it's gonna be lame as shit in there. The furniture probably smells like mold. 
 I say we go to Foxwoods. 
 I actually kinda like that idea. 
 Guys! Everyone looks at Adam. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Let's give it a chance. We don't know for sure that the room sucks. Nick nods, appreciating the optimism. He opens the door: 
 
 (SHRUGS) OK, so now we know. The guys drag their bags in and depressingly take stock of the situation -- presently the dirty old room. 
 What the hell is with this place? 
 It's like a Stephen King novel, except not as cool. 
 We'll feel a lot better once we hit the slopes. 
 (SMILES) Plus, I know there's one thing to look forward to. 
 Thank. God. 
 At least some things never change. 
 What's the big deal about a hot tub? 
 Shame on you. 
 There's plenty of time for tubbin'. Let's ski. 
 (re: their outfits) When's the last time you guys actually went skiing? 
 It's been a few years. 
 I think we look good. 
 Then you're an idiot. 
 All right, we race down the mountain. Loser buys first round. Premium shit only. 
 You gonna be all right? 
 What does that mean? 
 I dunno - do black dudes ski? 
 Of course black dudes ski. Aren't I wearing skis? 
 I'm just not sure you're representative. 
 You're calling me an Uncle Tom? 
 I don't even know what that means. 
 It means black dudes ski. (pulls down goggles) Catch ya at the bottom. Nick takes off and... gets about 15 FEET, before he hits a GRASSY PATCH and falls over. 
 Black dudes don't ski. 
 
 (MOCK YELLING) How's the bottom? 
 (LONG PAUSE) I love you too. Nick hangs up and we see that Adam, Lou, and Jacob have been walking with him, listening to his end of the conversation. 
 
 
 (CLAPS HANDS) OK, who's ready to sink their teeth into a delicious dinner? 
 You fellas look like you can handle some spice. I'm gonna knock it up a bit... throw some chili sauce in there... oh yeah, there it is. This is gonna knock your socks off. 
 Thank you. The waiter walks away and Nick RAISES HIS GLASS in a toast. 
 NICK (CONT'D) I'd like to propose a toast. To my best friend, Adam. He may be throwing his life away, but at least he's throwing it away with a hot chick at his side. The guys LAUGH and clink glasses. 
 NICK (CONT'D) And so what if you only have one vagina for the rest of your life. Speaking as someone who's seen your wife's vagina -- it's definitely one of the good ones. Lou and Jacob look confused, but clink glasses anyway, as Adam mouths "What the fuck" to Nick. Jacob raises his glass. 
 To my brother, I say thank you for including me. I promise to try to make the most of it. The guys look confused at the backhanded graciousness. 
 Thanks for coming, man. It means a lot to me. Jacob nods halfheartedly. 
 To Adam! 
 To Adam! The guys hug and clink glasses and excitedly CHATTER. Just then, a MANAGER appears at the table and CLEARS HIS THROAT. 
 Gentlemen. You're going to have to keep it down. 
 Come on, man. It's our friend's bachelor party. We're just trying to roast him a little bit. 
 Well if you like roasts, I suggest the roast peking duck. It's out of this world and as I'm sure Aiden has told you, he can make it quite spicy. The guys look bothered. 
 MANAGER (CONT'D) But as for the noisy kind of roast, that's going to have to stop. We have many other guests trying to enjoy the P.F. Chang's experience. The manager walks away. For a moment, the guys are quiet. Lou takes a bite of his food, chewing slowly. 
 This kung pau chicken pairs very nicely with the 97 cab. Very impressive choice, Nick. 
 Thank you. 
 Also, this is the worst bachelor party I've ever been to. Everyone puts down their forks, cathartically fed up. 
 Totally agree. 
 Nick, look. You had great intentions. No one's blaming you. 
 I'm blaming him. 
 I'm totally blaming him. I didn't even want to go skiing. 
 OK I'll admit this trip is not off to the best start. But we're due for a victory! Nick thinks and actually gets an idea. He SNAPS his fingers. 
 NICK (CONT'D) Hot tub! A lightbulb goes off for Adam too. 
 Yes! Lou gets up and throws down his napkin. 
 Why did we even bother with dinner? Adam and Nick get up too. 
 Guys, I'm still hungry. 
 Quiet, men are talking. Aiden approaches. 
 Get you guys some to-go boxes? 
 I would like you to die. And then I would like you to leave. Aiden walks away, freaked out. Lou turns back to the guys. 
 LOU (CONT'D) It's tub time. 
 Oh my god. The water is perfect. 
 I really don't see the appeal. It's like a glorified bath. 
 Jacob. Son. The hot tub is the whole thing! You ski all day. Then you hit the town, get trashed, and lure some fine ladies back to the lodge for some good old fashioned tubbin'. Nick CRACKS A BEER and pats Jacob on the back. 
 NICK (CONT'D) So the town's dead? Fine, we skip that part and go right to the tub. Trust me. If there's fun to be had, the tub is a good start. Nick gets in. 
 NICK (CONT'D) Yes! It's amazing. Now it's just Jacob outside the hot tub. The other three guys are already starting to look more energized and happy, splashing around. After another beat of consideration... 
 Fuck it. Jacob strips down and gets in. As he submerges, he actually starts to loosen up a bit and smiles. 
 Well? 
 I'm not convinced this is anything more than a bath, but it's nice. 
 Hit him with some bubbles. 
 Coming right up. Adam CRANKS A KNOB. As the BUBBLES comes to life, we begin a TUBBIN' MONTAGE over Reel 2 Real's "I Like to Move It." 
: 
 Oh my god, I wanna die. 
 I need a vitamin water. Adam reaches in his backpack, taking out two choices. 
 Red Bull or Fresca? Jacob takes the Fresca, as Lou inspects the CLAW MARKS. 
 That fucking bear got me good. 
 Yeah he did. 
 But we showed him, didn't we? 
 If by showing him, you mean we laughed and he got bored and wandered off into the woods with your sneakers, then yeah, we got him good. 
 Fuck yeah. Lou picks up Adam's half-eaten sandwich and takes a BITE. 
 You just puked. 
 That's why I'm eating your sandwich. I'm fucking starving. 
 Guys, look... Their gaze turns to the MOUNTAIN PEAK, on which is a fresh LAYER OF POWDER. It looks like perfect skiing conditions. 
 Let's do it! 
 What is this, a shitty car club? The guys COMPLETELY MISS the BILLBOARDS ACROSS THE STREET: -- "Coming soon: the most spaced-out Mel Brooks film yet! 
!" -- A surfing MAX HEADROOM with a CAN OF COKE and the tag: "Catch the Wave!" -- A bull terrier named SPUDS MCKENZIE parking with some HOT BABES and a shitload of BUD LIGHT. 
 Well this place has improved. -- In the lift line, Lou passes a GUY wearing a BIG HEADBAND. 
 Really, asshole? 
 I'm really glad we stayed. It's gonna be good to get away for a couple of days. 
 (QUALIFYING BEAT) I mean not like I want to be away from Lily. You know. 
 Believe me I know. 
 I love her. But you guys are right. I'm gonna be with her for the rest of my life. 
 
 (NODS) For the rest of your goddamn life. 
 It gets easier, right? No offense, but watching you talk with Courtney- 
 You're gonna be fine. You'll settle in, get the premium cable package - the usual deal. Adam nods. 
 NICK (CONT'D) You'll wake up every morning, comforted by the fact that your wife doesn't wield her family's wealth over your head like a hangman's noose. Adam looks concerned, as Nick wistfully goes on... 
 NICK (CONT'D) You'll breathe the air of life, making the occasional decision - maybe get some lawn furniture. How about steak for dinner? Yes, let's get that juice machine I saw on TV. Let's fucking go for it. Nick stares off into the distance. 
 Nick? 
 Sorry, I lost myself there. 
 That is a lot of cocaine. 
 I feel like we're in Scarface. Only with skiing. 
 (THINKS) Skiface. 
 (SNIFFS) Take it. It's good shit. 
 I'm gonna pass. 
 
 (DECLINES) Yeah, I'm good. The dude removes his sunglasses. He has a dead look in his eyes, studying Nick and Adam. 
 Spazzes? 
 I'm Crockett, obviously! 
 We're not spazzes. The dude extends the coke once more. 
 Adam, you gotta chill. You just did one line. 
 I've never ridden the horse before. 
 You're not riding the horse. The horse is heroin. Adam can't stop moving and fidgeting. 
 I don't know what kind of animal I'm riding, but it's the best animal of all time. I feel great! Adam uses his SKI POLES to push off the top of the mountain and he goes FLYING DOWN THE SLOPE. 
 Adam! Jesus. 
 He zips along, never changing course or slowing. He BARELY MISSES a few TREES. But he can't stop himself before -- 
 What a rush! He notices the girl on the ground and goes to help her up. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Oh wow, are you OK? 
 
 (MIND BLOWN) Jennie O'Keefe! Jennie squints at Adam, trying to place him. 
 Do I know you? He stares at her, not believing what he's seeing. He still looks loopy from the coke. Just then, a a too-blond, mirror-sunglass-wearing, feathered hair, striped-jumpsuited guy (BLAINE) SKIS UP and GRABS ADAM. 
 I'm gonna serve you a knuckle sandwich, airhead. 
 I think so. 
 Your lift ticket's been revoked. Blaine throws it on the ground and laughs to his friends. 
 (a la Lethal Weapon 2) Diplomatic immunity. Blaine looks confused, as Adam RIPS Blaine's lift ticket, but he ends up RIPPING BLAINE'S JACKET too. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Sorry, I was trying to... you can probably patch that up. Blaine PULLS Adam close by the collar and clenches his fist. 
 You're dead meat, scumbag. Just then, SNOW POWDER flies in Blaine's face. Blaine lets go of Adam, as Jacob snowboards up and stops short, coming to his brother's side. 
 There you are! My brother's had a few too many triple Venti nonfat lattes if you know what I mean. (genuine, to Adam) Are you OK? Adam nods. Blaine looks confused. CHAZ and TAD look enamored with Jacob. 
 Dude, they let you bring a skateboard on the mountain? 
 It's a snowboard. You know - no wheels. 
 Genius! Man, not to get all fag on you, but I'm digging your fresh threads, bro. Adam and Blaine look equally confused with what's going on. Jacob takes the compliment well, like he deserves it. 
 Thank you. It's mostly North Face. A little EMS. 
 Whatever it is, it works. 
 Totally. What are you doing with this boner? You should be skiing with us. Like permanently. Blaine looks really annoyed with his friends. 
 Guys! 
 I mean, that's if Blaine thinks it's cool and everything. Blaine takes a deep breath, annoyed. 
 
 
 (EAGER) You're welcome any time though! Adam picks up his BACKPACK, which fell off during the collision. He stares at Jennie again and smiles. 
 You look JUST like this girl. I had the biggest crush on her-- Blaine grabs the bag out of Adam's hand and SHOVES away. 
 This is mine now. Adam looks at Blaine angrily, but Jacob holds him back. 
 Come on. Let's just go. Jacob ushers Adam off the slope, as Blaine shoulders the bag. 
 What is going on? Lou strolls up to the guys, with his arms around TWO HOT CHICKS. He looks elated. 
 Guys! I'm so glad you're here. I want to introduce you to Michelle and Sandy. These lovely ladies are having a roller skating party next weekend and no offense, but fuck your wedding -- I'm totally coming back. By the way... Lou rolls out a ZIPLOCK BAG full of cocaine. 
 LOU (CONT'D) There's coke everywhere around here. This place rules! Lou dips into the coke and rubs it on his gums and we: 
 Has anyone else noticed that things around here are weird as shit? Adam and Nick nod. Lou shakes his head. 
 Don't you ruin this. If you wake me from this dream, I'll kill you. 
 
 (IGNORING LOU) What do you think happened? 
 I have no idea, but look... Jacob turns up the VOLUME on the TV. The NEWS airs. 
 I'm ruined! 
 (with genuine emotion) We're in 1971. 
 
 What are we gonna do? I have plans next weekend. 
 We all have plans. It's my fucking wedding! 
 Now hold on, we don't know for sure that we're in 1987. The TV shows a (real) COMMERCIAL for the COMMODORE 64 computer, with a JINGLE that SINGS: "Are you keeping up with the Commodore, 'cause the Commodore's keeping up with you..." 
 NICK (CONT'D) OK, we're in 1987. Adam stands up, completely losing it. 
 What the FUCK is going on?! Nick stands up and calmly takes charge. 
 Everyone relax. I think I know what's happened. And when we're done discussing it, we're all gonna feel a lot better. Everyone looks to Nick, who seems to have the answer. 
 NICK (CONT'D) Two words: black hole. He lets it hang in the air for a moment, as if it's suddenly going to gel for everyone. But the guys look confused. 
 NICK (CONT'D) I saw a special on the Science Channel. And guess what? Sometimes this happens. 
 This happens? 
 Yes. And the best thing for us to do is to stay put. The universe will eventually reverse itself and work out this little glitch. Nick sits down, looking satisfied in his know-it-all-ness. 
 This is a big glitch. 
 Yeah, you're an idiot. Black holes are in space. Not at a ski resort. 
 
 (HOPEFUL) So does this mean we get to go to girls' locker rooms and see them naked and they can't see us? 
 No, we traveled through time. We're not invisible. Lou looks upset. 
 (under his breath) I'm still gonna do it. 
 Guys, ignoring the ridiculousness of how we got here for a moment-- 
 Black hole. 
 How are we supposed to get back? For a moment, everyone sits and absorbs the question. Then: 
 We find a scientist. 
 This Dukakis guy seems like he might be the real deal. An affable MAN IN A SUIT approaches. 
 We're waiting for a scientist. 
 Where's your white coat? 
 I'm not that kind of scientist. 
 This is bullshit! I told you-- 
 Wait a minute. Just tell him. 
 OK. You tell him, Adam. 
 Sir, we... 
 Nothing's too ridiculous in the name of science. 
 We're from the future. 
 Get the fuck out of here. 
 That went well. Lou starts walking off by himself. 
 
 Five o'clock. Happy hour. The guys look at him, confused. 
 LOU (CONT'D) If it's '87, the PF Chang's will be gone, which means the Brew Haus still stands. 
 Well, maybe one drink. Just to confirm. 
 Holy shit. It's that bellhop. 
 Should we warn him? 
 
 (COVERS EYES) I don't want to see this go down. Phil TOSSES THE CHAINSAW IN THE AIR and... He expertly CATCHES IT, seamlessly continuing to carve. A GIRL leans in and gives him a kiss. 
 Fuck that guy. ON THE STAGE, TWO GIRLS compete for wettest t-shirt. They both decide that NO T-SHIRT is the wettest option. 
 God bless our country. 
 (in a daze) We're in 1987. 
 You can stop saying that. I don't think it's making a difference. 
 Seriously, we have to get back. (kinda losing it) We seriously have to get back! The guys subdue Adam, as a BIG-HAIRED WAITRESS brings drinks. 
 Here ya go, guys. Three Buds, one Bartles and James. The guys all stare at her like she's a museum artifact. 
 WAITRESS (CONT'D) What? I have lipstick on my teeth? Nick sips his WINE COOLER, feeling the eyes of the others on him. 
 Hey, if it's available, I'm ordering it. I always wanted one of these when I was little. The waitress puts down the CHECK. Jacob picks it up, realizing something. 
 (to the waitress) Can you give us a second? She walks away, as Jacob turns to the guys. 
 JACOB (CONT'D) This is gonna be a problem. He takes out his wallet, showing his CREDIT CARDS and CASH. 
 JACOB (CONT'D) Guys, we're in trouble. Our cards aren't gonna work and our new money looks fake. The guys look concerned, but then Nick notices something: 
 I've got an idea. As Nick gets up and approaches the businessmen, Adam looks around the room and by the bar, he spots -- 
 I still can't believe it's really her! 
 She's aged remarkably well. 
 (REMEMBERS) Oh, right. Why don't you just go talk to her? 
 I should go talk to her. To apologize, of course. You know, nothing inappropriate. 
 Sure... Adam GETS UP. He slowly makes his way over across the room. Jennie is talking to TWO OTHER GIRLS as Adam approaches. He lurks near them like a creep. Jennie eventually notices him, as he keeps stealing glances. She doesn't look happy. 
 
 No, no. No ass kicking. I just wanted to say I'm sorry about earlier. I lost control of the old skis there. 
 (LAUGHS NERVOUSLY) Looks like I shoulda taken another one of your classes! 
 When did you take my class? 
 Certainly not when I was a kid! I mean, that would make no sense! Adam tries to recover. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) I was here for a convention. Power tools. And regular tools. All sorts of tools. I'm big into tools. It was a couple years ago. Jennie looks very suspect of Adam. 
 Yeah, OK. Have a good night. Jennie starts to walk away with her friends. 
 
 JENNIE'S FRIEND (quietly, to Adam) Are you with that guy over there? She discretely points out Jacob. 
 Yeah, he's my brother. She takes Adam's PALM and writes something on it. 
 JENNIE'S FRIEND There's a party later tonight at this address. Make sure he comes with you. He's way boss! Adam walks back to his friends. 
 How'd it go? He shows them his palm. 
 We got invited to a party later. 
 sweet! What are we gonna do until then? 
 How about figure out how the hell to get back to the present day? Nick walks back to the table and SLAMS down a pile of CASH. 
 Bam! 
 We're millionaires! 
 Close. It's a thousand bucks. 
 Where did you get that money? Nick points out the Japanese Businessmen. 
 
 That was NOT a good idea! 
 I agree. You left so much money on the table. It's a fucking iPod! You could've gotten a LOT more! 
 That's not what I-- 
 (looking at watch) Fellas, we are not making progress and we're losing time. 
 Adam, don't worry. Time's not moving forward in the future. 
 Uh, yeah it is. Lest we forget the lessons learned from Bill and Ted. 
 Well then I give you Back to the Future. 
 That's not fair. You can't go right to Back to the Future. 
 Why not? 
 Back to the Future had a time machine. 
 Well so did Bill and Ted. 
 
 (REALIZES) Wait, that's it! I can't believe I'm about to say this, but I think we have a time machine. 
 Adam, all we did is get drunk in the hot tub. Everyone's EYES GO WIDE. 
 (puts it together) A hot tub time machine. 
 Here goes nothing! They simultaneously DOWN their drinks. Nothing happens. Like the chimps in 2001, each of them begins FIDDLING WITH KNOBS and PUSHING ON LIGHTS, trying to find the magic button. After a few moments: 
 Well, it was worth a shot. ANGLE WIDENS to reveal other PEOPLE in the tub. A GUY AND GIRL make out, two STONERS pass a joint, and one TOPLESS CHICK just chills out. 
 (stares at girl) I love this place. As Lou pours himself another, Adam starts to lose it again. 
 Guys, we're running out of ideas here! 
 ADAM (CONT'D) I mean we tried the scientist, the tub -- what the fuck do we do next? Lou DOWNS ANOTHER SHOT and gets a crazy look in his eye. 
 I know what we do next. 
 Rental car agency fucked us! There's no flux capacitor. Lou pulls Jacob over and straps him in the driver's seat, before walking around to the passenger side. 
 LOU (CONT'D) (to Adam and Nick) We'll travel to 2010. Then one of us will come back and get one of you. And so on and so forth. 
 Go light on the clutch. I don't wanna lose our deposit. Jacob starts the car. 
 
 Oh shit, they found me! I don't know how but they found me! 
 (LAUGHS) I always wanted to say that. Punch it! Jacob HITS THE GAS. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Let's see the look on this pig's face when we hit 88 and disappear into thin air! Yeah! The SPEEDOMETER hits 75, 80, 85, and then 90. And then 95. The car SHAKES VIOLENTLY. 
 LOU (CONT'D) 
 Hey Lou? 
 Yeah? 
 
 
 (NODS) I hear ya. 
 So do you think we should run away? 
 I wonder if we'll still be here for our court appearance. 
 If we're still here in four months, I will happily go to jail, because I'll be fucked anyway. A GUY walks out of the bathroom, wearing only a TOWEL. He looks startled. 
 Who the hell are you dweebs?! Lou is up IN A FLASH. He IMMEDIATELY DECKS THE GUY OUT COLD and PUMMELS HIM on the floor! The others pull him off. 
 Jesus Christ, what the hell, Lou?! 
 I have no tolerance for intruders. 
 This is probably his room! We're not registered here in 87. Lou thinks for a moment and looks a "little" sorry. 
 I'm still pretty OK with it. 
 You have a problem. 
 Just help me put him outside. 
 
 #1 Bodacious. 
 So you guys wanna fuck with him or what? 
 #2 Excellent. The dudes take custody of the passed out TOWEL GUY and continue on down the hall, as our guys go back inside. 
 Let's just go to sleep. We'll figure everything out in the morning. It's pretty late. Jacob checks his watch, rolling his eyes. 
 It's 8:45. The other guys look at their watches, surprised. 
 Why am I so wiped out? 
 Because you're old and lame? 
 Yeah, fuck that, we're going to that party! 
 We are not going to the party. 
 Hear me out. Lou paces around the room like Patton addressing the troops. 
 LOU (CONT'D) We saw the scientist. He was worthless. We tried the tub. Dead end. I got us a fucking time machine. From Hertz. It might as well have been a Nissan. Adam shakes his head, as Lou continues. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Gentlemen, it's fucking 1987. Nixon's in the White House, gas is free, and we're about to put a man on the moon! 
 Did we go to the same school? Lou turns and addresses Adam directly. 
 The point is you haven't even met your wife yet! She can't fault you for shit that went down 23 years ago! Even if 23 years ago somehow ends up being tonight! Adam starts listening a little more closely, as some of Lou's logic actually makes "some" sense. 
 LOU (CONT'D) It's time to start facing the fact that we may not be going home. And if that's so, then we owe it to ourselves to make the best life we can for ourselves. The guys listen intently, as Lou's speech reaches a passionate climax. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Because I don't want to be that college freshman who spends the first semester hiding in his dorm room, only to realize that come spring, he has no friends. 
 (MORE PASSIONATE) No! 
 LOU (CONT' D ) I want to be that college freshman who fucks chicks way out of his league before they have an opportunity to realize he's not as cool as he's pretending to be! Nick nods. Even Jacob smiles. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Are you with me? 
 
 Close enough. We'll talk some more at the party. 
 This sweater makes me look like a jerkof f . 
 
 (BREATHES DEEPLY) It's good to be home. In a corner, Phil puts his ARM in a SHARK TANK. Just as the shark goes to bite, he PULLS HIS ARM OUT, unscathed. A small crowd claps. Our guys are confused and upset. 
 Was this like an 80s thing? 
 If he doesn't lose that arm soon, I'm gonna take it from him myself. With that, Lou wanders off toward another room, leering at and groping girls as he goes. 
 
 (RE: LOU) He's gonna be a problem. Tad and Chaz walk over, looking dapper and douchey. They are excited to see Jacob. 
 Hey, glad you could make it! 
 
 (ANNOYED) This is your party? 
 Hey man, no hard feelings, all right? If your bro says you're cool, then we're cool. Tad puts his arm around Jacob and leads him into the party. 
 There's some people I want you to meet. By the way, bodacious hair. Incredibly chic. 
 
 Whoa. Product. You're blowing my mind right now. Did you spend time in Europe? 
 Don't tell me. Prague. Do you want some coke? 
 Do you have Coke Zero? 
 Ah, a conscientious objector. I like that. Gotta stay sharp. 
 These will be ready in 15 minutes. 
 (putting it together) So it's like jello. With vodka. 
 Mmm hmm. You get drunk while you enjoy a delicious gelatin snack. 
 How come no one ever thought of this before? 
 Don't know. I just invented it. Party chick looks into his eyes, dreamily. 
 I appreciate you. 
 (way too heartfelt) I love you. 
 He did a bunch of drugs and went on a rant about how much he resents Ace of Base. 
 That band's from the 90s. 
 I know. He made me borrow Tad's video camera. He wants to document the performance and sue the band for infringement when we get back. Adam sees Tad and Chaz behaving like cocks across the room, making hot girls drink too much. 
 (re: Tad and Chaz) So, you like these guys? 
 They're rich, popular, and they shower me with compliments. They're pretty much the best friends I've ever had. 
 ON A BALCONY A CROWD gathers around Phil, who has removed the cover of a 
 Phil! Phil! Phil! Like a zen master, Phil reaches out and GRABS A FAN BLADE, stopping the fan WITHOUT INJURY. Everyone celebrates! 
 NICK'S CROWD Nick! Nick! Nick! He finishes the last of the beer, and the crowd celebrates. 
 This guy should be in charge of everything! 
 I should. 
 Truth or dare? Lou confers with Michelle before answering. 
 Dare. 
 OK, we dare Lou to put a Twizzler up his ass. Lou stands up and angrily points at Jacob. 
 You son of a bitch! Have you ever played this game before? It's supposed to be awesome! Lou nevertheless grabs a TWIZZLER from the snack bowl and shoves it down the back of his pants. His face contorts uncomfortably and he is almost on the verge of tears. 
 LOU (CONT'D) This is a horrible thing you're doing and I hope you never have to experience what I am currently going through. Lou sits down and Michelle consoles him. 
 Your turn! Truth or dare? Before Sandy can even confer with Jacob: 
 
 (SMILES) Truth. Lou throws up his hands in frustration. He looks miserable, as Michelle confers with him. 
 (grumbling to Michelle) I don't care. Whatever. This is not the point of the game. 
 OK, each of you has to tell your darkest, most personal secret. Lou crosses his arms and shakes his head. 
 Oh wow, all right. Let me think. I've never told anyone this, but I was afraid of scary movies until I was 18. I even ran out of the theater a couple of times. 
 Oh you poor thing! Come here... She takes Jacob's head to her chest and strokes it gently. Lou makes a jerk-off gesture. 
 SANDY (CONT'D) 
 (SHY) I'm not sure I should tell mine. 
 Come on! You have to! 
 OK, but you can't laugh. 
 
 So this one time me and my friend Lori took a train to Baltimore. It was the summer and we wanted to party, but we had no money. So Lori found this businessman who was also looking for a good time and told him that we'd give him a half and half for seventy-five dollars. You know -- a suck and fuck. Lou and Jacob look shocked with the MATTER OF FACT storytelling. Michelle smiles. She's heard it before. 
 SANDY (CONT'D) Anyway, we get him up to his room and Lori starts going down on him, but I really wasn't into it. So I broke a piece of the bathroom mirror and used it to cut his artery on the-heck. Right here... She rubs Jacob's neck, pointing it out. 
 SANDY (CONT'D) He bled for about an hour before he died. 
 SANDY (CONT'D) Afterwards, we took his wallet to the bar and found out he only had forty-seven dollars. Michelle GIGGLES. 
 SANDY (CONT'D) Michelle! You said you wouldn't laugh! 
 
 Fuck you, your turn. 
 That's the gay ear, you know. As Adam looks STRAIGHT AHEAD -- He sees Jennie all by herself, browsing the hosts' CASSETTE TAPE COLLECTION. Adam takes a moment to check himself. Then he reaches for his DRINK and GULPS THE WHOLE THING, before getting up and WALKING OVER to her, catching her off guard. 
 So I lied to you earlier. I wasn't here for a power tool convention. Jennie instinctively looks around for her friends. 
 I know. You don't look like you could handle power tools. 
 The truth is, Jennie, I've always liked you. But I've never really known you. I really wasn't supposed to meet you again. 
 Who are you?! Adam shrugs, indicating he might as well tell her. 
 I came here from the future. She rolls her eyes - she's heard all the one-liners. 
 Let me guess. You want to beam me up to your spaceship built for two? Or maybe you're wondering if these are astronaut pants? 
 Astronaut pants? 
 Because my ass is out of this world? Give me a break, spaz. I've heard them all. She turns away. Adam goes after her. 
 No! No spaceship. No astronaut pants. Just regular time travel. With normal pants. 
 OK, what's the punch line? An ARM comes from behind and CHOKES ADAM. It's Blaine. 
 I thought I told you to stay off my mountain, partner! 
 Blaine, stop! 
 You talking to my girl? Huh? I can't hear you. Adam fights to breathe, as Blaine chokes him harder. 
 Blaine, that's enough! Let him go! He can't breathe! Blaine doesn't stop. He smiles like an asshole. 
 Can't breathe? Is that right? Can you breathe, partner? What's that? I can't hear you. Just tell me you can't breathe and I'll stop. Adam still struggles. Blaine just shrugs. 
 BLAINE (CONT'D) He's not saying anything. I guess he can breathe. Jennie pulls on Blaine's arm, trying to free Adam. 
 BLAINE (CONT'D) Babe, stop. Jennie, stop! Blaine turns and accidentally ELBOWS JENNIE in the face. She goes down. He releases Adam and turns to help her. 
 BLAINE (CONT'D) Baby, I'm sorry. (turns to Adam) See what you made me do?! 
 Screw you, Blaine! Jennie gets up. She grabs Adam's arm and YANKS HIM along with her, as she storms away. 
 JENNIE (CONT'D) 
 (V.0.) Sandy, I don't know what you did with this wine, but it is delightful. 
 It's from a box. There's lots! 
 Mmm. Fantastic. 
 (QUICK TURN) Do you mind if I borrow my friend? We'll only be a moment. 
 You're gonna fuck her! 
 I'm not gonna have sex with her. She killed a guy! 
 That guy was undesirable. You heard her. It was about the money. 
 Great, so she's a prostitute. I'm not sleeping with a hooker either. 
 She's not a hooker. She's a girl who did what she had to do to make a few bucks. (tries new tactic) Listen, she's probably awesome in bed. 
 She probably has a hairy vagina. 
 Exactly! Jacob looks confused. 
 I'm not having this conversation. It's pointless. I don't have a condom. 
 Perfect! Me neither! No one here uses condoms. It's like heaven. Only with a lot more coke. Lou takes his COKE out of his pocket and SNORTS a bunch. 
 LOU (CONT'D) How do I look? 
 Like a fucking madman? He slaps Jacob's arms. 
 Rock and roll. Lou exits the bathroom and calls out to the girls. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Who's ready to get laid by an awesome penis?! 
 Oooh, Atlantic Avenue. That's gonna cost you. 
 How much? 
 I'll tell ya what... Adam moves her token up a few squares and makes a show of looking over his shoulder, as if someone might see. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) I'm not supposed to do this. But I'm gonna upgrade you to Marvin Gardens. It's a suite. Plus, there's an excellent buffet and a view of the pool. Jennie laughs, despite herself. She looks around, as if someone might see her. Adam notices. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) No one's gonna see you hanging out with the creepy spaz. Don't worry. 
 I'm sorry I called you those names. 
 Hey, it's cool. I was being creepy and spazzy. 
 You're still not gonna tell me how you know me? 
 I'm from the future. 
 Fine, let's just drop it. I'm glad you're feeling better. Blaine had no right to hit you. 
 (SMILES) I bet he's going out of his mind right now. 
 What are you doing with a douche like him anyway? You're so much better than that. 
 Yeah, well guys like you come to visit. Guys like him live here. 
 So if I lived here, I'd have a shot? For a moment, Jennie is thrown off. She's about to say something, but checks herself. Instead she nervously stands. 
 I'm gonna get going. Adam stands up with her. 
 JENNIE (CONT'D) Thanks for being a good guy. I don't remember the last time I had this much fun playing such a stupid game. She gives Adam a sweet KISS ON THE CHEEK. 
 JENNIE (CONT'D) If you run into Blaine, you can tell him I blew you. But that's all. We didn't do anything else. 
 
 
 (SMILES) Shh. It's our little secret. Jennie exits, leaving Adam confused. 
 Tab? 
 Stop talking to me! Despite the fact that this looks like very good sex -- it is very bad sex for Jacob. 
 Jennie! 
 ADAM (CONT'D) 
 (WHISPERS) What are you doing here?! Jennie gives Adam a LONG WET KISS. He's freaked out. 
 I thought about what you said and you're right. I should be with you. 
 I didn't necessarily say that. 
 I want you, Adam! She RIPS OPEN her lingerie, revealing her AWESOME HEAVING 
. 
 Oh my god! She kisses him again and they start to go at it. Just then -- 
 Lily? 
 No, she just-- Adam looks to where Jennie just was, but now the bed is covered with PHOTOS OF JENNIE. There's also a LARGE BOX OF TISSUES and some HAND LOTION. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) What's all this? 
 (LOOKS AROUND) Jennie? 
 Nothing's wrong with it. It's beautiful. In the next bed, Nick rolls over and wakes up. 
 It's a beautiful vagina. Among the prettiest I've ever seen. 
 Stay out of it, Nick! 
 No. It wouldn't at all. Lily turns and walks out the door. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Lily, it wouldn't! I love your vagina! I love your vaginaaaaaa! 
 
 (GROGGY MUMBLING) Vagina... huh? He sees Nick sitting on a bed on the other side of the room. He's ON THE PHONE, talking quietly with someone. 
 Who are you talking to? Nick looks at Adam and covers the receiver. 
 Courtney. 
 What do you mean "Courtney?" Adam picks up ANOTHER PHONE. 
 Get off the phone!! But Nick is down the rabbit hole. 
 OK, so that may have been bad. 
 What were you thinking? The DOOR OPENS and Lou strolls in, looking quite fresh. 
 Guess who re-popped his 80s cherry? This guy! He points at himself in a celebratory manner, as behind him -- The Towel Guy whose room this is comes RUNNING UP. 
 Hey, get the hell out of my room! In one move, Lou catches him inside the room, closes the door with his foot, and puts the guy in a HEAD LOCK. He then converts it into a SLEEPER HOLD, putting the guy to sleep. 
 Oh, we're going to jail. 
 Help me put him in the closet. 
 Has anyone seen Jacob? 
 He's grabbing drinks with Tad and Chaz. Which is what we should do. We'll start at the Brew Haus and do a three drink crawl up the street-- Adam gets more fed up than ever. 
 Guys! I refuse to accept that we're stuck in 1987! Maybe you're loving it, Lou. But you don't get it. Nick's insane, Jacob's become a bigger douche than before, and I need to get back for my goddamn rehearsal dinner? Which is tomorrow! 
 
 (CALMLY) Adam. I know I don't look like I understand, but I do. You have a beautiful fiancee who means more to you than anything in the world. And if you could, you'd literally travel across time for her. 
 Yes. 
 I get it, man. Life is about these moments. Moments where a regular Joe becomes a hero. Moments where you dig deep and find the motivation... the courage... the guts to do what's right and what's necessary. It's moments like these... Lou suddenly notices some COCAINE on the edge of the tub. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Jesus, how come nobody told me there was coke out here? Lou SNORTS A BIG LINE. 
 LOU (CONT'D) What was I saying? Adam and Nick get out and towel off. Lou follows. 
 Maybe we have to learn something? 
 What do you mean? 
 You know, like Groundhog Day. We have to learn the meaning of life or some shit. Just then, a KITTEN licking a PUDDLE on the base of the tub JUMPS in the hot tub and VANISHES IN A BRIGHT LIGHT! For a moment, everyone is quiet. 
 
 I saw it too. The guys run over to the tub. The bubbles are on low, but there's NOTHING IN IT. 
 It didn't explode. It vanished. It went back... to the present. 
 This is the present. 
 Our old present. 
 So it is the tub! Lou POINTS at something. 
 Um... The HOT TUB IS NOT PLUGGED IN, and yet it's clearly running. 
 OK. You guys know what to do. 
 This isn't working. 
 Maybe these aren't the right kittens? Adam points at him in a "now you're thinking" way. 
 We'll split up. Get as many different cats as you can. Let's all meet back here in an hour. 
 You can count on me! 
 Yes! 
 Hate to tell ya, pal. Browns are gonna lose by 3 in overtime. 
 Eat shit and die, scumbag. I've got ten large on this game. 
 Not only that, but I bet you Elway's gonna throw a touchdown with 37 seconds left. 
 Fat chance, pal. Elway's done nothing all day. 
 Care to make it interesting? 
 Who the hell are you? Lou thinks about the question for a moment. 
 Name's Musselman. Hank Musselman. I've got a cool name, huh? 
 It's a good name. What did you have in mind, Musselman? 
 I win -- your wife gives me a blowjob. A classy one. For the first time, Candace looks less than bored. She does a bad job of feigning disinterest. 
 All right, buddy, fuck off. 
 You win -- you can kill me. Any way you want. Knife, gun, torch, sword... I'll even make a video exonerating you. 
 Yeah, right... 
 I'm serious. You look like a man who has everything. Except the license to kill. Care to gamble? Rick looks at Lou long and hard. Lou doesn't flinch. 
 37 seconds? 
 Exactly. 
 You have a deal. As Rick and Lou shake hands, Candace makes a show of looking offended. 
 RICK (CONT'D) 
 
 (MOUTH FULL) Look. Who am I? I'm your wife. Nuts in my mouth. Get it? 
 Oh, sorry man. 
 (NOTICES HIM) Hey! How's that iPod working out for you? 
 Oh, it's a very nice toy. 
 If you like that, I've got a phone back at the lodge that will knock your socks off. 
 I wish I could see it. But I am on my way to a very important business meeting. 
 Oh yeah? More important than Bluetooth? 
 My associates and I are co- financing a... how do you say it... supermarket business. 
 
 Yes! Boston! We leave tonight. 
 You're gonna franchise out the Gelman's Mom and Pop! 
 Yes! How do you know this? Nick puts his arm around the guy and walks down the street. 
 Walk with me a minute. Let me tell you about some companies you should really be looking into... 
 You really are a gas, Jacob. Tad and I think you're the cat's pajamas. 
 Thanks. I like you guys, too. A THIRD DOUCHEBAG arrives and gives a SECRET HANDSHAKE to Tad and Chaz. He drops off a PILL BOTTLE. This is GEOFFREY (pronounced JOFF-rey). 
 Gentlemen. 
 Geoffrey, please meet Jacob. Excuse his Jewish name. He really quite exceeds it. Jacob looks confused by that, as Geoffrey shakes his hand. 
 Jacob, would you like some too? He offers a pill bottle. 
 What is it? 
 Rohypnol. Geoffrey's father is a pharmacist, but we don't hold that against him. 
 Rohypnol? 
 You slip it to a chick who won't go to third. Give it an hour and you'll be rounding home. 
 
 
 (LAUGHS) What the fuck is date rape? 
 These are roofies! 
 Roofies... I like that! 
 Yeah, it takes the clinical name right out of it. It sounds so fresh, chicks might even take it voluntarily! 
 I got regular cats. I figured maybe the kitten was a fluke. Nick takes the box out of his hands and puts it down. 
 Come here. He leads Adam near the tub, where Lou points at something. 
 There! 
 What am I looking at? It's some kind of stain. 
 Smell it. 
 I'm not smelling it. 
 
 (NODS ENCOURAGINGLY) Smell the stain. Adam puts his nose up against the stain and SNIFFS. He recognizes something, but can't put his finger on it. 
 What is that? 
 Red Bull. 
 So you're telling me that Red Bull plus hot tub equals time travel? 
 
 (NODS PROUDLY) Mmm hmm. Hank Musselman's getting the Nobel Prize. 
 Who the fuck is Hank Musselman? 
 There was just enough Red Bull for the kitten. Not nearly enough for a human. It's a weight distribution thing. 
 How did you even figure this out? 
 Scientific method. 
 He bet me 20 dollars I wouldn't lick the stain. 
 I thought it was some guy's jizz. 
 What's wrong with you? 
 It worked, didn't it? 
 Yeah, except one little problem. There's no Red Bull in 1987. For a moment, they're all bummed again. Then Adam gets an encouraged look on his face. 
 Yes there is! Come on! Adam heads for the door, as Lou and Nick follow. 
 
 Why would you do that?! Behind Adam, Nick looks at the group of TEENS and his eyes almost BUG OUT. He elbows Lou. 
 (whispers, teeth clenched) Look. Lou looks to where Nick is looking: YOUNG ADAM, YOUNG, and YOUNG LOU wait with other kids for Jennie to return to their lesson. 
 Holy shit! Lou immediately approaches the kids, even as Nick tries to hold him back. 
 
 (TEETH CLENCHED) where the fuck are you going?! Lou walks right up to his YOUNGER SELF and looks himself square in the face. 
 What the hell do you want, old man? Lou PUNCHES his YOUNGER SELF in the face. Young Nick and Young Adam are freaked out, as is regular Nick. Adam doesn't notice, as he's arguing with Jennie. 
 Herschel and Evelyn aren't gonna do a damn thing. They're losers. 
 How do you know my parents? 
 Listen to me. Start putting minoxidil on your scalp. Tonight. Then, when Propecia comes on the market, start taking it. Every day. Hair is important. 
 I don't give a shit about hair. 
 You will! (leans in, quietly) Or I'll tell everyone about how you jerked off to that issue of Playgirl. 
 
 Hey, you don't have to justify to me, pal. 
 
 I'm God. 
 Fine. You wanna see Blaine? It's your funeral. He's in the warehouse at the end of Lawrence. Good luck. 
 Moment of truth. Lou takes off his hat and feels his scalp - no hair. 
 LOU (CONT'D) 
 LOU (CONT'D) Oh, that's just great. Jacob runs up, in a friendlier disposition. 
 Hey guys! 
 I thought you were with douche patrol. 
 Yeah I was. But it turned out those guys are date rapists. 
 Ah. 
 Adam, where are we going? Adam gets a look of determination again. 
 To get my bag. We get that, we have the Red Bull, and our ticket home. 
 Yes! The race is on! 
 What race? 
 Duh, it's 1987? We're at a ski resort? 
 (SHAKES HEAD) Disputes like these are settled with a downhill ski race. Usually at dawn. It's the law. 
 You're an idiot. 
 Welcome to my lair. 
 You live here? 
 Yeah, this is kind of a shitty place to live. 
 I don't live here. Adam approaches Blaine, trying to speak maturely. 
 Look. Blaine. I think we got off on the wrong foot. You have some issue with me. 
 You get blown by my girl? I'll say that's one hell of an issue. 
 Whoa! You got blown?! 
 She didn't blow me. She lied to you to make you jealous. I'm not trying to steal Jennie. I just wanna get my bag. 
 Oh, your bag. I was wondering when you'd come around for that. Tad holds up the BACKPACK over by the crates. 
 Yeah, I'll just take it and get out of your way. 
 You will? Adam EXTENDS HIS HAND. 
 Whattya say? Can we work this out like gentlemen? Blaine PULLS A KNIFE. Tad and Chaz also PULL KNIVES. 
 What is this town's obsession with knives? 
 
 You guys are posers! You're not better than me! 
 Jacob, I wish you hadn't seen us like this. Adam stands near Blaine, who helps a WOMAN. 
 
 (TO WOMAN) These would look so good with your light complexion. 
 Listen asshole! I want my bag! 
 
 (TO WOMAN) Will you excuse me for a moment? Blaine walks behind the COUNTER and SHOVES THE BAG in a SAFE. 
 BLAINE (CONT'D) Safe's on a timer. It'll open tomorrow. We race at dawn. Winner gets the bag. Loser leaves town. Lou turns to Nick. 
 See? I told you! 
 
 Then I guess you don't want your bag. 
 (SMIRKS) See you at dawn. 
 Your girlfriend sucks one hell of a mean dick. Adam makes a SLURPING SOUND and Blaine fumes. 
 What are we gonna do? 
 That chick blew you?! 
 
 (INTENSE) I've got a race to win. Europe's "The Final Countdown" begins playing over a MONTAGE: -- Skis are sharpened. 
 Just stick to the plan and you're gonna be fine. Adam looks at Jacob seriously for a moment. 
 Jacob, I'm sorry for not always being the big brother I should've been. I was away at college, Mom gave you my Sega - there were a whole host of issues. Jacob nods and speaks genuinely to Adam too. 
 I know. I'm sorry too. I put a few things before my family and took my guilt out on you. (puts it together) I guess it was an inevitable I'd end up part of a roofie ring. Adam smiles and extends his hand. 
 Friends? Jacob takes Adam's hand and helps him to his feet. 
 Brothers. They EMBRACE. Lou looks disgusted. 
 Gay. Blaine and his goons approach from below. Adam puts on his game face. 
 I didn't think you guys would show. 
 This was my idea. 
 It's gonna make my victory taste all the more sweeter. Like a Peach Snapple. 
 A what? 
 You'll see. Blaine actually looks rattled, as the two men get lined up. Adam is on a SNOWBOARD. 
 What's that? 
 You're not afraid of getting beat by a guy on a skateboard, are you? 
 I've seen you in action. You're reckless and terrible. 
 Reckless and terrible's my middle name. Because I feel the need... (pulls on goggles) for speed! Chaz holds out his arm as a starting line. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) Catch ya at the bottom. 
 
 Here goes nothing. Instead of weaving back and forth, Adam just stays in the crouch, PICKING UP SPEED. He recklessly PASSES BLAINE, despite the many TREES and OBSTACLES on the course. He BEARS DOWN AND TRAVELS LIKE A BOLT OF LIGHTNING! Blaine finds the guts to alter his STYLE, skiing more recklessly too. He begins catching up to Adam. Blaine skis up next to Adam - they're both going full force. 
 You can't beat me! I was born on this mountain! 
 I was born in a hospital like a normal baby! Adam bends down and picks up even more speed, NARROWLY MISSING trees and rocks. Blaine tries to keep up. Adam has the finish line in his sights, when he rolls the dice once too often. His SNOWBOARD GETS SNAGGED on a rock and Adam TUMBLES TO THE GROUND. 
 Ahhhh! My arm!!! 
 Yes! 
 You did it, man. 
 Ah, it was nothing. I just fell down the mountain. 
 It was a beautiful fall. Lou goes into Adam's backpack and pulls out the SANDWICH, which he begins unwrapping. 
 
 Chicken parm. It's my favorite. 
 Chicken parm? Adam takes the sandwich from Lou. He looks at it closely. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) 
 (LAUGHS) Chicken parm. On this roll. The guys look confused, as Adam stares at the sandwich. 
 Adam, what is it? 
: 
 (V.0.) It was our first date. You know those nights that are just perfect? This wasn't one of those nights. 
 (V.0.) If Lily knew where we were, I'm sure she would've walked home. And I wouldn't have blamed her. 
 (V.0.) We were so hungry by the time we found that deli, we would've eaten anything. So what if it wasn't foie gras and pino noir. It was chicken parm and Italian soda. And it couldn't have been more perfect. 
 That sandwich was special, huh? 
 You could say that. You could also say it gave me horrible diarrhea. 
: 
 (V.0.) Lily had every opportunity to leave. She didn't know me at all and she certainly didn't owe me anything after the night I put her through. But she stayed. 
 (V.0.) She saw me at my worst and she stayed. Lily holds the bucket, as Adam pukes into it. 
 Don't you see? This is more than a sandwich. It represents all that shit. All that puke. 
 Keep the sandwich. 
 This is disgusting. 
 She gave me this as a reminder of her love. 
 (THINKS) Or to give me horrible diarrhea so I didn't leave the room during the bachelor party. But mostly as a reminder of her love. Adam holds up the sandwich. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) This is the reason I need to go home. Adam stands up and walks toward the door with the sandwich. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) I'm gonna go prep the tub. Lou holds up a BAG OF CHIPS. 
 Do you have any stories about these chips or can I eat them? 
 There you are! 
 Jennie! What are you doing here? 
 Making good on a rumor. Jennie STANDS UP in the tub and she's TOPLESS. Adam DROPS THE SANDWICH, shocked. 
 Whoa. 
 When I saw you win that race against Blaine, everything changed for me. I realize now that I deserve more. I deserve a winner. 
 (SEDUCTIVE) Come and get your prize. Adam reaches next to the tub and hands her a ROBE. 
 Yeah, I... can't. She covers up, embarrassed. 
 Oh my god. I missed my opportunity. 
 No, I'm not sure there ever was an opportunity. Jennie, you're terrific. You've brought me so many moments of joy, you'll never know. But I shouldn't have given you the wrong idea. Jennie looks sad and vulnerable, as Adam talks. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) The truth is there's a girl I need to go see. We have plans to spend the rest of our lives together. And I can't wait any longer. (listening to himself) And I'm totally cool with it. Adam smiles, feeling the rush of knowing he's ready. But then he sees how sad Jennie is. He moves closer to her. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) One day, you're going to find the right guy who's willing to give up everything and travel across time and space for your love. She nods and tears up a little bit, as Adam HUGS her. 
 
 I know you would. 
 We don't have to go yet, Adam. Things are just getting fun. 
 And we can do whatever we want without any real consequences. That's a lot to give up. 
 
 (NODS) That's how I know I'm doing the right thing. Adam reaches in his backpack, but can't find the Red Bull. He turns it inside out and shakes it -- nothing. 
 Where's the Red Bull? 
 (V.0.) You looking for this? Across the patio, a drunk, disheveled Blaine holds the CAN. 
 BLAINE (CONT'D) You couldn't leave well enough alone, could ya? You couldn't just win the race and call it a day? You had to have Jennie too. 
 I don't want Jennie. 
 That's funny. I don't want this soda, either. Blaine smiles like an asshole. Adam's face goes desperate, as Blaine OPENS THE CAN and DRINKS THE WHOLE THING. 
 Nooooo! 
 ADAM (CONT'D) 
 (DESPERATE) Why? Lou takes Blaine's pulse. 
 Holy shit! You may have killed this guy! No wait... wait... I've got a pulse. Eh, so much for that. Nick puts his hand on Adam's shoulder. 
 I'm sorry man. I'm really sorry. 
 The Red Bull's gone. He fucked us. 
 Not necessarily. Everyone looks toward Jacob. 
 JACOB (CONT'D) The Red Bull isn't really gone. (points to Blaine) It's in him. A beat, as everyone sorta gets it. 
 It's worth a shot. 
 Come on, Lou. 
 Nah, I'll take a rain check. 
 What are you talking about? 
 Listen, your lives at home sound all beautiful and happy with your barbecues and swimming pools and "oh, that sandwich reminds of some gay shit I did one time." Adam and Nick don't look thrilled to be reduced to this. 
 LOU (CONT'D) But my life back there sucks. And in case you haven't noticed, my life here fucking rules. So I have a coke problem? I'll go to rehab. I have no money? I'll stop winning sex and start winning dollars. Lou DRAGS BLAINE by the foot closer to the tub. 
 LOU (CONT'D) Guys, I was tailor-made for 1987. And you'll excuse me, but I value banging young chicks way more than all of your friendships combined. 
 Yeah, no, I get it. Lou goes around and gives them all hugs. 
 Makes perfect sense, man. Lou squeezes Jacob's shoulder. 
 I don't hate you as much as I used to. 
 (a little emotional) I hate you a little less also. Lou LIFTS BLAINE'S LIMP BODY. 
 OK, whenever you're ready, Lou. 
 One small step for man! One giant asshole puking in a hot tub! Here goes nothing! Lou does the HEIMLICH MANEUVER on Blaine. It takes ONE... TWO... THREE THRUSTS until Blaine PUKES IN THE TUB! For a second, it's just a BIG SPLASH of VOMIT and nothing else. 
 OK, well maybe if we-- A BRIGHT FLASH CONSUMES THE SCREEN! And when it dies down, we see Adam, Nick, Jacob (and the floating puke) in the hot tub where we left them. Only Lou is missing. 
 What happened? Did it work? 
 I didn't feel anything. 
 
 Dammit. Even the deck furniture's the same. We fucking blew it. It didn't work. 
 Where's Lou? 
 (O.S.) Right on schedule! Lou walks toward them, but there's a lot that's "off" about him, including HAIR PLUGS, JEWELRY, and a SHITLOAD OF PLASTIC SURGERY (including a fixed NOSE) that makes him look at once older and younger. 
 Ahhh! 
 Oh, the face, eh? I was curious how you'd react. 
 Lou? 
 You're damn right it's me. 
 What happened? 
 You just traveled 23 years in three seconds. Took me 23 years. It's good to see you guys! 
 We're back? It all looks the same. 
 It better! You know how much I pay the groundspeople around here? A lot. But that's all right, I'm fucking loaded. Look at all this. Everyone looks confused. 
 Will you fill in some of the blanks for me, please? 
 I'll give you the short version, because time is of the essence. First of all, to settle an old bet, time most definitely has been moving forward. It is exactly three days since you've arrived here in beautiful Havenhurst. Jacob looks at Nick. 
 Told you. 
 Secondly, I'm filthy rich. Made sports bets. Sued Ace of Base. I own most of V ermont. (MORE) 
 LOU (CONT'D) I've been reimagining the state as my own personal playground. You could say I'm a little bit like Michael Jackson, except I don't fuck kids. Two YOUNG HOTTIES walk by and wave at Lou. 
 LOU (CONT'D) I do fuck them, though. Haven't gone above 24 years old in 10 years and even then, it was a mistake. 
 Wait, fuck, Lou what time is it? 
 Way ahead of you, Adam. You have 2 hours to get to New Jersey in time for your rehearsal dinner. 
 
 Not even a little bit. I have a helicopter waiting in the parking lot and a private jet on my airfield five minutes away. The guys look stunned. 
 LOU (CONT'D) I had some time to plan. God, it's good to have you guys back! 
 By the way, Adam, I hope you don't mind. Right after you left, I fucked Jennie silly. 
 Why would she have sex with you? 
 You get the big time assist. All that talk of her finding the right guy who's willing to give up everything? Made her wetter than a log flume. 
 (SMILES) She's all-time top five. 
 Good to hear. 
 Lou, I gotta ask you something. 
 Time travel paradox. 
 Exactly. Aren't there now two of you living here in 2010? 
 Think really hard about that one. What happened to me when I was 19? Nick shrugs. He looks at Adam. Suddenly, both their eyes nearly pop out of their skulls. 
 No way... 
 You went missing and were never found. 
 Yeah, you're gonna have some lingering memories of both versions. 
 Wait a minute, what happened to... you know. Other Lou. 
 You don't wanna know. 
 Lou... 
 The kid sucked, OK? He couldn't take even a little bit of direction. Pretty soon I realized that having two versions of the same dude walking around -- as cool as that sounds -- didn't make very much sense to me. 
 
 So I took care of the problem. 
 What did you do? 
 I had to do it. 
 What did you do? 
 I killed myself. 
 Jesus Christ. 
 Yeah, it was really some existential shit. I mean, here I am committing homicide and I'm actually committing suicide. 
 How could you? 
 It was easy actually. For a minute, I thought I might be dealing with that whole Timecop thing. You know, the same matter can't occupy the same space at the same time bullshit and we both go poof? Especially after that whole nose thing. But no, it was just a murder. I didn't suffer. 
 I don't wanna hear any more. 
 It was strangulation. 
 I don't wanna hear any more! They sit in horrified silence for a bit. 
 You'll have to introduce me when we get there. Your families won't know me. Although I'm sure they're huge fans. 
 (ABRUPT) So hey, getting married, huh? Taking the plunge! Adam looks disturbed. Nick looks confused. 
 This makes no sense at all. 
 
 (COY) I'm here on time. Just like I promised. Nick sits down next to COURTNEY and Jacob takes his seat. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) (no nerves at all) I'm so happy to see you and I can't wait to spend the rest of my life with you. 
 (TEARFUL) Me too! 
 You're the one. Lily notices Adam's on CRUTCHES. 
 (O.S.) My fault entirely, madam! The room is ABUZZ with CHATTER, as Lou makes a nearly REGAL ENTRANCE, wearing a WHITE TUXEDO. 
 I was partaking in a little ski adventure and I mistakenly wandered into your fiance's path. His broken leg is my broken heart. My most humble apologies. Lou scrapes and bows and regally kisses Lily's hand. She looks genuinely flattered. Lou gets up and whispers to Adam. 
 LOU (CONT'D) See? I'm awesome here. You shoulda stayed out of that tub. 
 I was thinking we'd invite Adam and Lily over for dinner when they get back from their honeymoon. That's... if it's OK with you? 
 Why wouldn't it be OK with me? That sounds nice. 
 (SMILES) 
 COURTNEY (CONT'D) You look so good in this shirt, by the way. Nice choice. She puts her head on Nick's shoulder as they dance. 
 So... how are your parents? 
 Still working hard. I really wish they could retire already, but it's tough competing with the big chains. I mean, they just have the one store... 
: 
 
 
 (SMILES) You know what they say about hard work. Builds character. 
. 
 Ahh! 
 This is why we shouldn't have sold that iPod. Adam puts his hand through Jacob, who speaks with purpose. 
 JACOB (CONT'D) The Japanese have apparently cornered the technology sector over the past 20 years. We've dealt American businesses quite an irreparable blow. 
 What does that mean for us? 
 Pretty much nothing for us personally. We just get cooler phones and iPods and shit. 
 Oh. Great! Jacob CLICKS OFF and disappears, as Lily approaches. Adam can't help but beam from ear to ear. 
 ADAM (CONT'D) You're so beautiful. 
 Come on, let's get out of here. We have unfinished business. Lily smiles. She gets into it. 
 
 (GENUINE) How about you're the woman I love and I'm the man of your dreams? 
 OK, you're a nurse and a snake bit my penis. 
 So you're friends with the bride? 
 Can you keep a secret? I'm actually kinda crashing the party. 
 Naughty girl. You're secret's safe with me. 
 I'm just in town for a couple of nights. I'm actually looking for my father. We've never met. 
 I'm from here. Maybe I know him. 
 His name is Hank Musselman. For a moment, Lou's expression FREEZES. He blinks. Then -- 
 
