 
 Help! Someone help me! (He stops when he hears a loud dragging sound somewhere in the room. He looks out into the darkness and calls out.) Is someone there? Hey! (He turns back to the corner to which he is chained, says in a slightly softer but still panicked voice) Shit, I’m probably dead. 
 You’re not dead. 
 Who’s that? Who’s that?! 
 (his voice strangely a bit on the calm side, and almost irritated with Adam’s reaction to the situation. This shall be his tone for many scenes to come.) There’s no point in yelling, I already tried it. 
 Turn on the lights! 
 Would if I could. 
 What the fuck is going on? Where am I? (He turns into his corner, touching the wall.) 
 I don’t know yet. 
 (smelling something; in disgust) What is that smell? 
 Shh! Hang on a second, I think I found something. 
 Holy shit! 
 (screaming) HELP!!! (He falls back onto his bottom on the floor as he yanks at the chain as hard as he can.) HELP!!! Help! 
 No one can hear you. 
 What the fuck is this? 
 Calm down, just calm down. (He knows that to remain calm is to remain in control, something he must be no matter what the situation.) Are you hurt? 
 I don’t know...yeah! 
 (calmly) What’s your name? 
 (sarcastic) My name is Very Fucking Confused! (demanding) What’s your name? What’s going on here? 
 (internal eye roll; he’s getting more and more aggravated with Adam’s behaviour) My name is Lawrence Gordon, I’m a doctor. I just woke up here, just like you. (He reaches up, wipes his face with his sleeve) 
 (in pain) Ah! 
 Recognize him? 
 (sharply) No. 
 (trying to get SOMETHING out of this kid) Well, do you have any idea how you got here? 
 No. 
 What’s the last thing you remember? 
 Nothing. (he sits back onto the floor, stops pulling at his chains for a moment.) I went to bed in my shithole apartment, and woke up in an actual shithole. (He raises his left leg slightly, starts trying to pull his foot out of the iron cuff. He glances to Lawrence, who has moved over to the wall to his left, bent over slightly and resting a hand against a pipe.) So what about you, huh? 
 (He shrugs slightly, shaking his head.) Well there’s...there’s not much to tell, really. (Across the room, Adam gives up with the chain for the time being but remains sitting on the floor.) I was on my way home from work and uh, I don’t remember anything else. 
 First dead body I’ve ever seen. Look different in real life. They don’t move. 
 From the looks of these chains, someone didn’t want us to go very far either. 
 Can you see any scars? 
 (looking at him strangely) What? 
 Huh? This is what they do man, (he gestures to his stomach, where there are in fact no scars.) They kidnap you and drug you and before you know it, you’re in a bathtub and your kidneys are on eBay. (A ridiculous theory to us and to Lawrence, but Adam states it with conviction.) 
 (a scoffing tone in his voice) No one has taken your kidneys. 
 (disbelief) How can you tell from way over there? 
 (matter of fact) Because you’d either be in terrible agony, or you’d be dead by now. Trust me. 
 What are you, a surgeon? (He lowers his shirt and turns and bends down to prod at the chain around the pipe again.) 
 Yeah. (He sighs. He’s getting tired of Adam already. He speaks sharply.) So, you gonna tell me your name, or what? 
 Adam. 
 (getting to his feet, his voice a bit calmer) Well Adam, what we need to do (he leans with one hand outstretched against the pipe to his right. Adam watches him, scared but calm) is start thinking about why we’re here. Whoever brought us there could’ve killed us by now. But they didn’t. They must want something from us. (He looks up and around the room) Question is what. (He sees something up on the wall, moves forwards a bit towards it. We see that it is a brand new clock on the wall, ticking away. It reads currently at 10:22.) That clock. 
 What about it? 
 It’s brand new. (squints, studying it) 
 (not getting what he’s implying) So? 
 (sighs; it’s quite simple, why can’t Adam see it?) So, someone obviously wanted us to know the time. (Adam looks a bit confused still, mulls over that information. Lawrence thinks for a moment.) Wait, I think I may be able to reach that door. 
 What is that? (Adam doesn’t answer, continues looking at the tape. Lawrence’s voice grows impatient.) Excuse me. 
 (glances up briefly at Lawrence, then back down at the tape. His voice sounds slightly surprised.) It’s a tape. 
 Where did you find it? 
 It was in my pocket. 
 (regarding his tape) It says Play me. 
 (frustrated, mumbling to himself and to the key) Come on, come on, come on.... 
 (seeing that it doesn’t seem to be working on Lawrence’s lock) Throw it over here. 
 Fuck. (He leans over and picks up the key, then bends down and tries the key on the lock on his ankle, which doesn’t work. He tries the lock on the chains around the pipe. It isn’t working there either.) 
 (watching him) No? 
 Use your shirt. 
 (gets back up to his knees) What? 
 Your shirt. 
 Come on... 
 It won’t work. 
 (trying to get him to not give up yet) Well, look around, there must be something else you can use. 
 (stands, ready to give up, skeptical) There’s nothing. 
 (insistent) Well there must be something! 
 Come on, you can do it. 
 Come on, come on, again. 
 (on tape) Rise and shine, Adam. You’re probably wondering where you are. I’ll tell you where you might be. You might be in the room that you die in. Up until now, you simply sat in the shadows, watching others live out their lives. But what do voyeurs see when they look into the mirror? Now, I see you as a strange mix of someone angry and yet apathetic. But mostly just pathetic. So are you going to watch yourself die today, Adam? Or do something about it? (end) 
 I don’t get it. (He presses the stop button on the tape.) 
 (eagerly, gestures.) Throw me the player. 
 (pauses, thinks) No, you throw me your tape. 
 (a heavy sigh. He looks at Adam as a slow-minded fool who simply doesn’t understand the full capacity of the situation that they’re in, and speaks to him as such.) Look, we’re going to have to work together if we want to get out of here. Now just throw it to me. 
 (picks up on the tone, speaks defensively) I’m not going to risk breaking it! You throw me your tape! 
 (on tape) Dr. Gordon, this is your wake up call. Every day of your working life, you have given people the news that they are going to die soon. Now you will be the cause of death. Your aim in this game is to kill Adam. (Adam glances down at the tape recorder wide-eyed, then back up at Lawrence) You have until six on the clock to do it. There’ sa man in the room with you. When there’s that much poison in your blood (another view of the body from Lawrence’s POV), the only thing left to do is shoot yourself. (Jigsaw coughs) There are ways to win this hidden all around you. Just remember: X marks the spot for the treasure. If you do not kill Adam by 6:00, then Alison and Diana will die, Dr. Gordon. And I’ll leave you in this room to rot. Let the game begin. (end) 
 (firmly) Give me that. Now. (Adam tosses him the tape. He catches it, rewinds, plays back. Adam stands up from his spot on the floor.) 
 (on tape)...then Alison and Diana will die, Dr. Gordon. And I’ll leave you in this room to rot. 
 (thinking, trying to figure this out) Any idea who that is? 
 (on tape) Let the game begin. 
 He knows us. 
 Wait a minute. (rewinds more) 
 (false hope) What do you think? Probably a joke, right? 
 Shh, shh! (presses play) 
 (on tape) Let the game begin. 
 (softly) Listen... 
 (on tape, in a VERY hushed tone after a brief silence)...Follow your heart. 
 What the hell does Follow your heart mean? 
 There! Right next to you, on the toilet. 
 (impatient, gesturing) Come on, come on. 
 Oh man...(he gasps, making gagging sounds, his face turned away from the bowl. He coughs, fishes around for another brief moment, then quickly pulls back, trying to shake some of the shit off of his hand, spitting. 
 (expectantly) Anything? 
 (disgusted) No solids. 
 Take off the lid. (He points to the lid. Adam looks to it, slowly stands up, reaches for it. Lawrence has no patience.) Come on! 
 I really wish I had checked in there first. 
 Huh. (he smiles slightly) What is it? 
 Hey! (Adam turns and looks. Lawrence speaks in an irritated voice) Mind passing me the other one? 
 (enraged) Fuck! Fuck! (He reacts violently, hitting the broken saw twice against the iron pipe then turns and hums it across the room, right into a mirror. A small piece of the mirror breaks off and flies to the floor.) 
 (everything is becoming more clear now) He doesn’t want us to cut through our chains. He wants us to cut through our feet. (Adam looks up at him, eyebrows raised.) I think I may know who’s done this to us. 
 What did you say? (he stands up; is Lawrence hiding something from him?) 
 It’s not someone I know personally. It’s...just someone I know of. 
 (getting slightly frantic again) Jesus Christ! Tell me, who is it?! 
 The last I heard...the police still hadn’t caught him. 
 (VO) And the only reason I know that is because I was a suspect. 
 (VO) I’ll start from the beginning. 
 This one’s not fresh anymore. At least three weeks out. (Detective Tapp squints as he peers in and studies the body) Victim’s a 46-year old male. (Quick flash of a crime scene photo, a closeup of behind the man’s head and upper back. There are deep cuts all over. The camera cuts upwards to the detectives.) Died of massive blood loss. Mostly through the femoral artery. (The camera pans around to Detective Tapp, who moves around the side fo the cage to get a better look inside, shining his flashlight in.) He started at the back of the cage and tunneled his way through the razor wire so fast it’s amazing he got as far as he did. Cut himself so deep, we found traces of stomach acid on the floor. (Another more gruesome crime scene photo shot of the body from the side; we can see the razor wire digging in under his arm. Also, a close-up shot of some of his wounds; long, deep cuts.) We also found this. (She holds up an evidence baggie with a micro cassette tape recorder, just like the one Adam and Lawrence found in their cell. She presses the play button, and Tapp and Sing listen. It’s the same chilling voice from Adam and Lawrence’s tapes.) 
 (on tape) Hello Paul. You are a perfectly healthy, sane, middle-class male. Yet last month, you ran a straight razor across your wrists. Did you cut yourself because you truly wanted to die, or did you just want some attention? Tonight, you’ll show me. The irony is that if you want to die, you just have to stay where you are. But if you want to live, you’ll have to cut yourself again. (Flashback shot of Paul waking up in the cage, looking around, scared and confused. The shots go back and forth between the detectives and the Paul flashback, with him grabbing and shaking the razor wire, screaming. His screams sound distant under Jigsaw’s voice.) Find the path through the razor wire to the door. But hurry. At 3:00 that door will lock and then this room becomes your tomb. How much blood will you shed to stay alive, Paul? (end) 
 (stopping the tape) The door was on a timer. It was unlocked until 3:00. Then it slammed shut. He was given two hours. 
 Jigsaw piece. (Sing looks in as well, see it. There is a quick flash of crime scene photos showing a close up of the wound. Tapp sighs.) I think we’re gonna be here for a while, Sing. (Sing looks to him. We get another quick crime scene shot of Paul.) 
 (VO) The newspapers started calling him the Jigsaw Killer. 
 Actually, technically speaking, he’s not really a murderer. He never killed anyone. 
 (VO) He finds ways for his victims to kill themselves. 
 (VO, on tape) Hello Mark. If you’re so sick, then why do I have so many photos of you up and about? (there is a quick montage of a camera snapping several black and white shots of Mark up and about, looking around and getting into a car.) Let’s put your so-called illness to the test. (Flashback image of Mark waking up. He is a younger man in his mid to late twenties, with dark brown hair. He is completely nude, smeared in some kind of Vaseline-like ointment. In front of him is a small, square glass plate held up by some chains. On the plate is a micro cassette player, a lit votive candle, and a box of matches. He gets up, looking around confusedly and scared.) Right now, there is a slow-acting poison in your veins. The antidote is in the safe. (Black and white crime scene shot of the safe, then a shot of Mark standing over it, screaming, his screams distant under Jigsaw’s voice, as with Paul.) The combination to the safe (quick montage of several black and white crime-scene photos of numbers written all over the walls) is written on the wall. Hurry up and program it in. But watch your step (Mark’s bare foot steps on the broken glass scattered all across the floor). And by the way, that’s a flammable substance smeared on your body (shot of Mark looking at the ointment on his hand, up his arm, everywhere), so I would be careful with that candle, if I were you... 
 (huddled over the safe; screams, but it is still distant sounding) Help!!!!! 
 (VO ct’d)....or all the people you’ve burned with your act (Mark starts to turn the lock on the safe) just might have their revenge. 
 I found something else. Well, two things, actually. (She moves past them and we go with her over to a wall where there is a small hole cut, about an inch or two in diameter. The light from the outside shines in.) There was someone standing outside here watching through this peephole. Looks like our friend Jigsaw likes to book himself front row seats to his own sick little games. He was there at the last one as well. (She walks over to Sing and Tapp) Only this time, he left us his penlight. (She holds up the penlight in an evidence baggie, clicking it twice then handing it to Tapp.) 
 (taking the baggie, studying it) Get a rush on the prints. (He hands it back to her.) 
 (taking the baggie, moving out of the room) Copy that. 
 Okay. This patient has an inoperable frontal lobe tumor extending across the midline. Started as colon cancer. (He turns back to the three young medical students. One of them, a pretty Asian girl named CARLA, smiles at Lawrence as he speaks, seems particularly infatuated with him.) The patient has come in for a standard checkup by which we are able to monitor the rate at which his condition is declining. 
 The patient had... 
 (cutting him off) His name is John, Dr. Gordon. (He looks down at the patient, who we see is a man in his late forties-early fifties, hairless except for a small white goatee. His head is to the side and he is sleeping. On the tray table in front of him is a notebook and some colored pencils. As Zep looks at him and speaks of him, there is caring in his voice, something Dr. Gordon has yet to display regarding this patient.) He’s a very interesting person. 
 Thank you for that information, Zep. (he looks to the students, who all share his smug smile) As you can see, our orderlies form very special bonds with the patients. (Zep just stares at Lawrence, his expression mostly blank but with pure loathing just underneath the surface. The look seems to say Fuck you, Dr. Gordon. He stares at him for a moment, then turns away, and continues down the hall with his cart.) Continuing on, the patient.... 
 Dr. Gordon, Dr. Lawrence Gordon, please page the operator. 
 (a smug but annoyed smirk) Obviously someone doesn’t want me to tell you what the patient has. Excuse me. (He steps around the students, leaves the room. The three students watch after him with great admiration.) 
 Dr. Gordon, I’m Detective Tapp, this is Detective Sing, City Homicide. (he gestures to the degrees on the wall.) Very impressive. 
 Oh. Thank you, I do my best. (He sits in his chair. Tapp takes the seat next to Sing across from him. Sing studies him silently, chewing gum.) 
 Sorry to interrupt you while you’re working. 
 That’s fine. Now, how can I help you gentlemen? 
 Are you able to tell us where you were between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. last night, Doctor? 
 (his tone just barely masking his concern) Why is it that you’re interested? 
 We’d like to ask you a few questions about it. For your sake, I think it’s best if we do it down at the station. Would you like to follow us there? 
 (Shaking his head, this is unbelievable) No, I’m afraid that’s...that’s quite out of the question. I can’t just leave, I have work to do. Plus, my wife has the car today, so... 
 (chuckles uncomfortably) I’m sorry, you’ll have to tell me again. What is this all about? 
 Is this yours, Doctor? 
 So you have no idea how your penlight showed up at the murder scene? 
 Of course not! 
 I have to ask. What were you doing last night. 
 (a slight hesitation, a bit of guilt in his voice. As much as he would allow.) I was seeing someone. 
 (a slight pause) Who? (Lawrence doesn’t answer, just continues his pacing. The lawyer gets frustrated, noisily puts down his pen.) Look, if you can’t be honest with me... 
 (His tone quick, almost blurting) I was visiting someone. It wasn’t a patient. Alright? (He sighs, shakes his head. He’s fucked, either way.) What am I gonna do? 
 Well, as your lawyer and your friend, my advice to you is to bite the bullet and give them your alibi now. Because no one is going to believe you later. 
 (sighs) That was five months ago. He tried to set me up for murder. 
 Good! Can I go home now? 
 (doesn’t really care) I’d like to help, really, but... 
 (quietly, giving in.) Okay. 
 (speaking slowly, gently) Amanda...in your own time, tell me the first thing you remember. 
 (VO) I woke up. All I could taste was blood. (The camera moves back quickly, and we see her tied to the chair, her wrists bound to the arms of the chair. She pulls against her bonds, moaning loudly, trying to speak or cry out but cannot.) And metal. 
 (from the TV) Hello Amanda. You don’t know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Here’s what happens if you lose. (The video moves next to the doll, to a device like the one she’s wearing attached to a mannequin head. As he continues, explaining what it is, her breathing grows faster and heavier, and her moans pick up more.) The device you’re wearing is hooked into your upper and lower jaws. When the timer at the back goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open. Think of it like a reverse bear trap. Here, I’ll show you. 
 (from the TV) There is only one key to open the device. It’s in the stomach of your dead cellmate. Look around, Amanda. Know that I’m not lying. You better hurry up. Live or die. Make your choice. 
 And then I saw the body. 
 There was a knife. 
 You mean....he was alive? 
 What happened after you took it off? 
 Congratulations. You are still alive. Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. But not you. Not anymore. 
 You are, in fact, a drug addict. Isn’t that right, Mandy? (she nods, but doesn’t look up.) Do you think that is why he picked you? (She lets out a sob, briefly nodding once.) Are you grateful, Mandy? 
 (softly) He...helped me. 
 (softly) Are you sure it’s him? 
 (nods slightly) Yeah, I’m sure. 
 (becoming a little hysterical again. He speaks accusingly) How do I know you’re telling the truth? You can be the one who put me in this room! (he gesticulates as he speaks, pointing to Lawrence and himself.) 
 (internal eye roll, speaks slowly, as to a simpleton) I’m in exactly the same situation you’re in. 
 Wrong. (he stands up, kicking his chained foot out. Shouts.) Wrong! You’ve got one thing I don’t: Information! (He hovers as close as he can in a threatening pose, pointing) You know who did this! (He picks up a glass shard that fell when he broke the mirror, holds it up threateningly to Lawrence) Now you either tell me what is really going on (Lawrence rolls his eyes, turns his head over to his left, away from Adam) or I’ll cut you with this, you hear me? I’ll cut- (But he stops short as he sees something in the glass. He flips it over, studying it, flips it back. He looks over to the mirror on the wall, studying it, thinking.) 
 What? 
 (looks over at Lawrence, then back at the mirror.) It’s a two-way mirror. 
 (OS, Taunting) I can see you... 
 (from on video) So that’s what this is. Reality TV. 
 (OS. Still taunting, sounds as though on a power trip) Don’t look at me. I can’t help you. 
 Can you hear me in there? Huh? I’m having a blast. (he bends down and picks up another piece of debris from the floor) This is the most fun I’ve had without lubricant. (Hums the piece of debris at the window. It makes a thwacking sound, but doesn’t break. Not even a crack.) Make sure you’re getting everything. (Bends down, throws picks up and throws another piece of debris. It hits, but no breakage. Leans down for another piece.) 
 (Scoffing tone as he watches Adam trying to break the glass) That’s not going to do anything. 
 (pauses, looks to Lawrence) You just want to leave it running on us? (the shot switches to surveillance view) 
 (very matter-of-fact) Well, you won’t stop it. (shot switches to regular view) That’s why we can’t cut through these chains. It’s why you won’t break that glass. (he gestures to the pipe then the glass) Every possible angle has been pre-thought out by him. (He appears deep in thought, starting to understand the set-up more so, figuring out the way this guy thinks. Almost admiring him. The situation may be bad, but it’s a brilliant design.) 
 You sound like you admire this prick. 
 (explaining) To overcome something, you have to understand what a perfect engine it is. That’s how you fight disease. (He looks up at the ceiling, at the walls, around the room) Now the tape told us to find an X. That X has to be somewhere in this room. (determined) Help me find it. 
 How can you be the calm Doctor Guy when your wife and kid are out there. (Shot of Lawrence looking around the room) He’s got them, too. (Shot of the clock; it’s now 12:05.) He could be doing anything to them right now. Are you thinking about that? 
 (Suddenly looks right at him, snaps angrily) I AM thinking about that. (Adam backs off a bit. Lawrence pauses a moment, his voice changes to calm but sad.) I’ve been the last thing I said to my daughter. 
 Diana, Honey, are you okay? (she pushes back the covers and gets up, crouching down in front of her daughter. Looking up at her, she places her hands on her daughter’s arms.) Diana, Honey, can you hear me? 
 (very softly, but showing almost no fear) Mommy? 
 Oh, what is it, sweet pea? 
 (very calmly) There’s a man in my room. 
 (sighing, but not rudely. This is not the first time this has happened) Oh Honey, are you sure he’s not just hiding in your imagination? 
 He talked to me. 
 (sighs) Okay, I’ll come and check your room. (She smiles a small, assuring smile) 
 I want Daddy. He’ll get the scary man. 
 (her smile fading a bit) Alright, if you want. Come on. 
 Larry, sorry to bother you, but your daughter had a bad dream again. 
 (his eyes never leaving the screen; raises his finger to pause them) Just a minute. 
 She wants you to check her room. 
 (keeps typing, never looks up) Mmm hmm, mmm hmm, just gotta finish this paragraph. 
 (softly) You know what sweetie? I’ll go check with you. 
 Nope! I’m done. (he smiles, turning to look at them.) 
 (very reassuringly) See? (he pulls the covers up over her, up to her chest.) There’s no one in your room. There’s no such thing as the bad man. Now can you go to sleep? 
 I’m still scared. 
 You are? Give me your tootsie. (He pulls back the covers and she pulls out her foot. He takes it in his hand.) Oh, what a big tootsie. (He turns to her, raising his eyebrows up) Remember this one? (He counts on her toes as he says the following) This little piggy went to market, this little piggy stayed home, this little piggy had roast beef, this little piggy had none, and this little piggy went ‘Weeee!’ (he tickles up her leg to her tummy and she giggles) all the way home! 
 I hate that thing. 
 Well I have to go to work, sweetheart. You know what Daddy’s job is like. Now, come on. (he re-tucks her in, she smiles at him.) Let’s see. Try and get some sleep now, okay? (He gives her a kiss, smiles, stands up and goes to the door.) 
 You’re not going to leave us, are you, Daddy? 
 (suddenly concerned) What? (He stops at the door, turns, goes back over to her bed, sits down next to her and leans over. This was the last thing he’d expected her to say) What are you talking about? You mean, leave you and Mommy? (She nods; he reaches up and gently brushes her hair away from her face.) No, no sweetheart, I would never do that. Who gave you that idea? 
 No one. 
 Well it’s not true, okay? 
 (very softly) Okay. 
 How much do I love you? 
 LAWRENCE & DIANA Love you very much 
 That’s right, that’s right! (He gives her a kiss, pulls back.) Good night, sweetie. 
 Good night, Daddy. 
 Tomorrow, I’ll read you your favourite story. 
 (with a small smile) Okay. 
 Okay. (he goes out.) 
 I don’t know how much longer I can do this, Larry. 
 (sounds as though he has no idea what she means) What, what are you talking about? 
 (pissed, in disbelief) How can you walk through life pretending that you’re happy? 
 I am happy. 
 (confrontational) That is complete bullshit. (cut to a shot of Diana, laying on her side in her darkened room, clutching her teddy bear to her chest. Her eyes are open, she can hear everything. We stay with her for the rest of Alison’s line, her voice now off a bit in the distance but still very audible) I’d rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least there’d be some passion in it. 
 Would you like to see her? (He reaches into his pocket and takes out his wallet, throws it across the room to Adam, who is sitting with his back against the wall, facing Lawrence. Adam picks up the wallet and opens it. He sees two pictures of Diana, side by side. The one on the left is Diana hugging a dog. The one on the right is a smiling portrait outside somewhere. 
 She’s beautiful. 
 Thank you. 
 (sighs, then looks up at Lawrence) You gonna have any more kids? 
 (a bit wearily, but not snobby) We’ve talked about it, but uh, with our schedules, it’s difficult enough to concentrate on one. (The tone of his voice indicates that maybe he’s starting to realize that he should’ve spent more time and attention to his daughter.) 
 (referring to the wallet) So where’s the lucky wife? (a small smile) 
 There’s another picture behind the one you’re looking at. (Adam reaches behind the photo on the right and pulls another photograph out. Lawrence smiles slightly as he speaks) It’s my favourite one because we’re all in it together. Someone, usually me, has to hold the camera, which means I’m always missing from the photos. 
 (VO) X Marks the spot. Sometimes you see more with your eyes shut. 
 It’s uh, it’s not here. 
 (a slight disturbance from his momentary nostalgic bliss) What? 
 Uh, this photo you’re talking about...it’s not here. 
 (slightly surprised, reaching out his hand for Adam to toss the wallet.) Really? Are you sure? 
 Yeah. (Tucking the picture in his right hand, he shifts slightly by lifting himself a bit with his right hand, sneakily putting the photograph down and tossing the wallet with his left hand. Lawrence picks up the wallet and starts looking for it, creasing his brow in concern, while Adam backs up against his wall, holding the photograph out of Lawrence’s sight against a pipe he rests his arm on as he looks at the photograph.) 
 (disbelief, shaking his head) He...he must’ve taken it. I... 
 (VO) How can you walk through life pretending that you’re happy? 
 I am happy. (He walks over to a chair, leaning over it as he puts something down, gets his briefcase ready to go to work. Alison stands a few feet behind him, trying her best to get him to react, to stop the bullshit and end the masquerade.) 
 (pissed) That is complete bullshit. I’d rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least there’d be some passion in it. 
 (tired of this, brushing it off as not that important, like there really is nothing wrong) We can talk about this alter, okay? (He leans in to kiss her, but she shakes her head. He pauses there.) 
 (firmly) Just leave. 
 Goodnight, little girl. (camera pans up closer into the closet, and we a widened blue eye and part of a face (yet unidentifiable) watching her.) 
 Diana!? 
 Diana! (opens the door and flips on the light, gasps when she sees a figure covered by a blanket looming over Diana’s bed. The figure suddenly grabs Diana and she screams, struggling against him. Alison goes for them. 
 Don’t do that! Leave her! Get away from her! 
 (through her gag) Keep your motherfucking hands off of my daughter! 
 (VO as we view shot of Zep) Who are you little man...I see you...(cut to a television screen with the video of Zep in the window. Fade back and to the right as we get a view of someone’s apartment. Plastered on the walls are various photographs, which we can barely make out, and a desk in the corner with some recording equipment. As we move further right and hit the window we see Detective Tapp, leaning over the camera shooting the Gordon’s window, adjusting the view. Something about him seems just not right. We cut back to his view from the camera.) Does Dr. Gordon know you’re at home with his wife? I know you know something. (his voice goes up a bit louder) What are you doing in there? Waiting for the doctor? I’m waiting for the doctor, too. Hmm. 
 I never should have let you go... 
 (VO, fading, hushed against soundtrack) I never should’ve let you go... 
 (Pretending like he’s trying to be helpful, really just glad to be out of Tapp’s company) Here we are. That was uh, quite an amazing story that poor woman told. (Tapp just nods, says nothing. Lawrence smiles very uncomfortably, gets out of the car.) 
 (leaning down and looking back into the car window.) Look, I’m sorry I can’t be of more help to your investigation. 
 (nods very slightly) You know, we arrested a dentist last week who like to play with kids a bit too much. He lived two blocks from here. The sewer lines run under this neighborhood too, Doctor. (hint hint) 
 (from the video) Hello Amanda. You don’t know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Here’s what happens if you lose. There’s a timer at the back of the device you’re wearing. When the timer goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open. 
 (from video) Think of it like a reverse bear trap. 
 (from video) I’ll show you... 
 Mmm? 
 I don’t think so. Thanks anyway. 
 (on video) There is only one key... 
 (on video) It’s in the stomach of your dead cellmate. 
 (on video) It’s in the stomach of your dead cellmate. 
 (on video) Look around, Amanda. Know that I’m not lying. (Sing steps off to the right) You better hurry up. (Tapp rewinds again, suddenly pauses) 
 Wait wait wait, Sing! 
 Get back here! 
 Mmm! (he gestures franticly for him to come over.) 
 Remember 118th Street? 
 Now listen to this. 
 (looking up at Sing) We gotta check the records from all the fire emergencies that occurred there in the last two weeks. Go, right now! Mmm! 
 Who said anything about a warrant? (He grins, gets up and grabs his jacket.) 
 Why not? 
 (VO) At least we’ll have the cover of darkness. 
 I got you... 
 What the hell is this?.......(his voice almost a whisper) Oh shit... 
 (looks to Sing, says softly) Wait Sing! 
 (eager) Let’s see what he’s gonna do. 
 We don’t know what he looks like. Let’s see what he’s gonna do. 
 Sing, Sing! (he moves in front of the man a bit, holding up his hand to try to halt Sing, trying to convince him to go along with him.) 
 Sing! 
 Wait Sing, listen. 
 Awake already, Jeff? I need more powerful tranquilizers next time. (Jeff continues his cries, sheds a few tears. Jigsaw reaches over and touches his shoulder) Don’t cry. I’ve given your life a purpose. You’re a test subject for something greater than yourself. 
 Hold it right there! Don’t move! 
 Now you’ll make a choice. (Sing runs up the steps to try to where Jigsaw is, gun aimed at him. Tapp remains where he stands.) In 20 seconds, the life of this man will be ended. 
 Shut up and get down here! 
 Sing, stop that thing! I’m taking this bastard down. (Sing tosses Tapp the shotgun.) Move! 
 Tell him how to stop it! 
 One key will unlock it. 
 It’s in the box. 
 Tell him which key it is! 
 (now facing Tapp, moving closer to him. His back is to us, we still don’t see his face.) Time is running out. 
 Shut up and get down here right now, asshole! 
 What’s more important to you Officer, arresting me or the life of another human being? 
 Get down on your knees! 
 (gun aimed at the back of Jigsaw’s head) Hands behind your head! (Jigsaw obliges) Sick bastard. 
 Yes, I am sick, Officer. 
 Sick from the disease eating away at me inside. Sick of people who don’t appreciate their blessings. Sick of those who scoff at the suffering of others. 
 (as he pops a blade out of a wristband hidden up his right sleeve) Sick of it all! (He lashes upwards, slashing Tapp’s throat) 
 (weak, desperate) Had you...had you on your knees. (He sits forward, getting some things off the coffee table) You’re running. You’re running...(He gets up and goes over to the desk in the corner with the audio recording device and dozens of photos pinned to the wall, takes a seat) You’re running scared because we had you. I’m going to close this case. Ram close it. (He picks up a small framed photograph, which we can’t see, but likely, it’s of Sing.) Right, Sing? Right? We’re gonna close it, Sing. 
 X Marks the spot...(He stands, touching the pipe and looking up and around a bit.) X marks the spot...we need to search this room again. (He turns and looks over at Adam.) What are you doing over there? 
 (irritated) Excuse me? 
 (glancing up; calm irritation) Just because I’m stuck in this room with you doesn’t mean I have to report to you every ten seconds. 
 (sighs) I really don’t see the point in us not helping one another. 
 well what do you want me to do? I’m on a leash. 
 That’s exactly why we need to talk. We need to think! 
 I am thinking! 
 (snapping at him) Well then don’t keep me in the dark about what you’re thinking! 
 Turn off the lights. 
 What? 
 (letting the photo fall into the tub as he stands) Turn them off now, please! 
 (doesn’t get it) Why? 
 (impatiently) Just turn them off for a second! 
 Jesus, behind you! 
 (turns and sees it, is surprised) How come we didn’t see that before? 
 The lights in here hadn’t charged it. It must be glow in the dark paint or something. 
 (excitedly) Open it! 
 (turns it around so we and Adam can see the small lock on it.) It’s locked. (He pauses, thinking, then realizes something) The key, the one from my envelope. Where is it? 
 (soft, hushed tone as he looks) Where the fuck...Here. (He finds it, picks it up and tosses it over.) 
 (big smile) Cell phone. The most beautiful invention on this planet! 
 Make that second most beautiful invention! (He reaches out his hand for Lawrence to toss it.) Give me that. 
 Are you joking? You’re gonna put something we found in this room in your mouth? 
 (pause, then) Yes, I’m willing to risk it! Give me that sweet cancer. (Lawrence ignores his request, tosses out the other cigarette and a lighter. He finds lastly a small folded up note with the words Shh, Doctor, written on it.) I don’t care, I really don’t. Give me one of those. 
 (VO) The cigarettes are harmless, I promise. Smoking is only poisonous when it ends in bloodshed. Think about this - you don’t need a gun to kill Adam. 
 (growing impatient) May I please have a cigarette? 
 (ignoring his plea) I’m trying the police. (He flips open and dials on the cell phone, but a weird beeping noise indicating the call can’t go through comes from the phone. He dials again, same result.) Shit. (Pause, thinks.) This was meant to receive calls, not make them. (A moment; he realizes something.) Wait a minute...this has happened before. 
 (VO) Last night, after I finished at the hospital. (fade into another closer shot of the cars, and Lawrence walking down the corridor, carrying his briefcase.) I was walking back to my car. (He stops a moment) I thought I was alone, but I’m sure someone else was there. (He squints, bringing his hand up over his eyes. There is a flash from the side. He looks up, startled, looking in the direction in which he thinks it came from, but sees nothing. He looks around him for another moment, then continues forward to his car.) 
 (His eyes distant, off in his memory) That...thing. It was waiting for me. (He exhales sharply, then looks back up at Adam. Adam is just standing there, staring at him. Something seems a bit...off. With a suspicious tone, Lawrence addresses him.) How did you know to turn off the lights? 
 Who cares? It worked. 
 Yeah, but how did you know? 
 (a slight pause) Instinct. (His tone is far from believable.) 
 (doesn’t believe a word of it) Instinct? 
 Yeah. 
 You know what? (he looks down, then back up at Adam.) You’re a terrible liar. 
 (quiet offense) You say that like you know me. 
 (speaks calmly, but anger lies underneath the surface) What else aren’t you telling me? 
 (cocky and sarcastic) Well, um, let’s see. On my sixth birthday, my best friend at that time, Scott Tibbs, stabbed me with a rusty nail. I didn’t tell you about that. I didn’t’ tell you that my last girlfriend, (Lawrence lowers his head into his hands. Un-FUCKING-believable) who was a feminist vegan punk, broke up with me because she thought I was too angry. Uh, I haven’t told you that one of my toenails is slightly... 
 (snaps at him, fed up) Just stop it. You knew to turn off these lights. 
 (turning away from Lawrence) What-ever. 
 (stands up, frustrated.) I’m dealing with a juvenile. 
 (has had it, looks right at him) You wanna know? 
 (exasperated) Yeah! 
 (with a somewhat aggressive attitude) Here it is. (He throws it towards Lawrence, who looks down at it, then back up at Adam before getting down on the floor and pulling it towards him with the hinged box. He picks it up, sitting up as he looks upon it with shock. ) 
 (very softly, shakily) Oh God...(he turns it over, then back. Adam casts his eyes downwards, still standing but cooling off, feeling bad for Lawrence) W...where did you get this? 
 (softly) It was in your wallet, behind the photo of your daughter. 
 W...why didn’t you show me this before? 
 I couldn’t. (Lawrence begins to shakily sob, touching the photo.) I’m sorry. (Adam goes over and sits against a pipe in his corner, lowering his head and upper body forward, holding his head in his hands.) 
 What are you doing to them you bastard?! (He goes back to huddling over the photograph, sniffling and crying for a moment. Then, he sits up, trying to pull himself together) Okay...okay..(he looks around a bit) Okay, I’ve got to think now...(He looks down, sees the note again in the box.) 
 (VO) Think about this...you don’t need a gun to kill Adam. When there’s that much poison in your blood (a slow shot moving to the pool of blood from the body in front of Lawrence), the only thing left to do is shoot yourself. 
 What are you doing? 
 Hey! What the hell are you doing? 
 (whispering so the surveillance camera will not pick him up) Adam, listen to me. I want you to play along with me on this. 
 You got that? (he turns the lights back on, both of them again wincing at the bright light. Lawrence glances at the surveillance camera, then looks to Adam. 
 (trying to be nonchalant) So you uh, still want that cigarette? 
 Um...yeah, sure. 
 (watches Adam, then turns to the surveillance camera, speaks with angry finality) There! I’ve done it! I’ve killed him with the poison, just like you wanted. (shouting) Now where’s my family?! Where are they?! 
 (he shrieks in pain and shock) Jesus Christ!! 
 (disbelief) What? 
 (wide eyed) I just got electrocuted! 
 What? (he rolls his eyes. Unbelievable. He speaks in a hushed tone.) That was our way out! 
 (yelling at him) Did you hear what I said? (he desperately grabs at the manacle around his ankle, pulling at it and shrieking) Get this thing off me! Get it off! 
 (pissed off) Stop acting! 
 (stops pulling at the manacle and chains; now he’s pissed at Lawrence for his disbelief) You think I would make that up just to mess up your stupid fucking charade? 
 (gives up on Adam, frustrated once more) All right, that’s it! (He leans over and picks up his saw, sits down and starts trying to saw through his chains again, grunting. Adam, in the meantime, just sits back against the wall, breathing heavily, looking dazed. Lawrence continues to franticly saw, but it doesn’t work. He gets pissed off and throws the blade down.) Ah, Damn it!! 
 (wide-eyed) I remember everything now. (Lawrence glances over at him.) I remember how I got here. 
 Great. 
 Is someone there? (he takes a picture, the flash lighting up the area in front of him.) I can hear you. (He takes another picture, the flash lighting up a living room area. Nothing yet. He moves forward more, into the kitchen entryway, snapping away for light.) 
 (his voice alarmed but confused at the same time) What the...? (He snaps a picture in its direction and sees the Puppet from Jigsaw’s workshop and video sitting in an armchair, continuing its evil laugh.) Christ! (He reaches down and finds a baseball bat on the floor, and starts hitting the doll as hard as he can until the laugh starts to fade and then just dies out. ) What the... 
 Who is that?! Who’s in there?! (he moves towards the door, shaking but trying to be a tough guy) Come on out! I’ll kill you, you motherfucker! (He opens the door, holds the camera and takes a picture. As soon as the flash goes off we see the red-robed pig thing that originally grabbed Lawrence quickly move forward and grab Adam.) 
 (not sure what to expect) Who is this? 
 (on the phone, sobbing) Daddy? 
 Diana? (he stands) 
 Daddy, is that you? (cut to a shot of her being held by Zep, the phone to her ear.) 
 (getting sniffly) Yeah baby, it’s me. I’m here. (Adam watches him intently) 
 (sobbing) I’m scared, Daddy. 
 (trying his best to reassure her) Don’t worry honey, everything’s going to be okay. Where’s Mommy? 
 She’s here with me. 
 (Staying as calm and collected as he can for his daughter) Let me talk to her sweetie, okay? Put Mommy on. 
 The bad man from my room is here. He has us tied up and he has a gun. 
 W...what man? 
 Please come home Daddy! (Zep kisses her on the top of her head and takes the phone away to give to Alison.) 
 Hello? Hello? Diana? 
 (desperate) Diana! Diana! 
 Larry? 
 Ally? Is that you? (We see a shot of Alison giving a threatening look through her tears to Zep.) 
 Is Adam there? 
 (surprised, looks to Adam, who continues to watch him worriedly) How do you know? Ally, what is going on? 
 (through her sobs, trying to calm them and get this message to him) Don’t believe Adam’s lies. He knows you. He knew all about you before today. (Zep quickly takes the phone away, hangs up. Cut back to the bathroom, Lawrence on the phone.) 
 (a dial tone is heard from the other end hanging up. Lawrence is desperate) Hello? Ally? Ally? (No answer, just the dial tone. He stands up.) Hello? (He looks to the surveillance camera, screaming) God damn you! If you so much as lay a finger on them, I’ll kill you! You hear me? You son of a bitch! I’ll kill you! (He sits down, leaning forward over the floor, crying a bit. He slams his fist fiercely against the floor.) 
 (quietly, as though cautiously approaching a dangerous animal) Are they okay? 
 (sits up. His voice is calmer, but rage is clearly underneath the surface) My wife, she uh, she mentioned your name. 
 (a brief Oh shit look appears in his eyes, but he acts surprised) What did she say? 
 (not looking at him yet. Speaks very firmly, trying to suppress his rage.) She told me...not to believe you. 
 (cannot even look at Lawrence.) Believe me about what? (There is no doubt he’s hiding something) 
 (Finally turns to look at him, the look of 1000 deaths) She told me you knew me. (He stands, looming menacingly, the look stronger on his face) Who are you? 
 (still trying to cover up and losing, still not making eye contact) You know who I am. 
 (snaps, shouting at him) Stop the lies! You’re a liar! I need to know the truth! 
 (His tone changes, he’s had it with hiding, had it with Lawrence) I’m a liar? (Finally, he looks up, right at Lawrence. His voice is firm and accusing.) What did you do last night, Lawrence? Work at a hospital? Saving sick children? You told me that after you left your house last night, you went to work at a hospital. 
 (defensively) That’s because it’s the truth. 
 (almost deadly) No it’s not. Your wife is right, Larry. (Lawrence is now the one wearing the Oh shit look.) You don’t recall getting your picture taken in that parking lot? 
 I can prove that you didn’t go anywhere near a hospital last night. (He leans over and pulls out the garbage bag from the tub. Lawrence stands, staring at him in near disbelief. He has been caught. Adam takes a handful of photos from the baggie he’d kept hidden inside the garbage bag, holds them up and throws them down, scattering them.) It’s not the first time I’ve done it either, Larry. (Lawrence leans over to look at the photos on the floor in front of him with complete and utter disbelief, picking one up and looking down at it) I’ve been taking pictures of you for a few days now. (Shots of some of Adam’s pictures. Lawrence going into a building, Lawrence at an outdoor café eating lunch.) 
 (still holding the photograph) But...why? 
 You wanna know what I do? I get paid to take pictures of rich guys like you who go to seedy, out-of-the-way motels to fuck their secretaries. (we start seeing more shots Adam took while following Lawrence) Last night I went to your house. (Flashback of Adam holding his camera, then cut to several photographs of Lawrence leaving his house, glancing over his shoulder and moving down the sidewalk) I watched you leave. I followed you (Lawrence in the parking garage, photographs of the exterior of the Hotel Barfly. Lawrence inside the hotel, knocking on the door to one of the rooms while Adam hides around the corner with his camera) all the way to that shitbag hotel. (Photographs of Lawrence standing outside then going into the room.) 
 (calm with rage just beneath the surface) You’ve uh, had these with you the whole time? 
 I found them, in there (points to the toilet; quick flashback of Adam pulling the bag out of the top of the toilet, then Adam opening the bag and seeing the hacksaws and a glimpse of something else in the bag.) with the hacksaws. (Flashback of Adam tossing the bag into the bathtub while Lawrence isn’t looking.) I don’t know how they got there. 
 (angry) Yeah, right. You’re so full of it! (He angrily crumples up and throws the photo he was holding at Adam) 
 (scoffing tone) Aww, face it, Larry, we’re both bulls hitters. But my camera isn’t. It doesn’t know how to lie. It only shows you what’s put right in front of it. Just out of curiosity, what did you do in that motel room? You got out of there pretty fast. 
 Why did you um, deem it necessary to page me when you knew I was at home? 
 I didn’t know if you were going to make it. (turns, goes and sits on the bed.) 
 (sounding very business-like) But I gave you a precise time at which to page me. (He puts the briefcase on a chair by the door then goes over and sits down next to her on the bed.) You can’t do that. 
 It’s not like I know the rules for this sort of stuff. (She starts unbuttoning her shirt. Lawrence holds out his hand and stops her. She looks up at him, concerned.) What’s wrong, Dr. Gordon? 
 (a sigh in his voice) Look, it was wrong for me to makes you come here. 
 (confused, hurt) But I thought we- 
 -Please. (very softly) I’m sorry. (He stands and heads over to the door. Carla remains sitting on the bed. She sniffles slightly but doesn’t cry.) 
 You tell anyone you were here? 
 No. (She stands, goes over to the phone and answers it.) Hello? (She listens, turns to Lawrence) It’s for you. (She holds out the phone.) 
 For me? (He walks over, takes the phone.) Hello? 
 I know what you’re doing...Doctor. 
 I- (but the other person hangs up, and a dial tone is heard) 
 (nervous) I have to go. 
 What happened? 
 I’ve got to go. (He picks up his briefcase from the chair, and heads out the door. 
 Who was it? 
 Who was what? 
 The person who paid you to follow me, who was it? 
 (internal shrug) He calls himself Bob and he gives me the money up front. Two hundred bucks a night. If I’d have known I was gonna end up here, I would’ve asked for a hell of a lot more. 
 (pissy) What does that mean? Does that mean you saw what happened to me? 
 (internal eye roll; speaks as though he’s been over this 100 times before) What I saw was you get into your car. That’s it. I didn’t ask your name. I didn’t know who you were. I don’t know how I got here, I don’t know how you got here. I just took the shots (As he speaks, a quick flashback of Adam taking a picture, going up apartment stairs, then in the darkroom) and went straight home to develop the. Next thing I know I’m chained to a pipe in some prehistoric bathroom, staring at the guy I’ve been taking shots of all night. 
 (seeing a major break in this mystery) Clearly, whoever paid you to take the pictures of me is the one who put is in here. 
 (they don’t know that for sure) Maybe. 
 Maybe? What do you mean maybe? Of course it is! What did he look like? 
 (internal shrug) I don’t know, he was just a guy. (Shot of inside Adam’s apartment and an unidentifiable figure towards the back of the room, the image darkened so we can’t make him out. The figure slowly takes a step towards us/Adam) 
 Was he tall, was he skinny, obese, what? 
 I don’t take notes about his appearance. (Shot inside apartment, the figure moves closer) 
 (aggravated, how can he not remember anything?) You must remember something about him. 
 I can’t. (Shot of inside the apartment, the figure moves closer) 
 You’re telling me you don’t remember a thing about the guy? 
 I told you, I- (inside apartment, the figure moves closer, just about close enough for identification) 
 (enraged, throwing his hands up) Oh for fuck’s sake! I give up! 
 (gives up his playing dumb tone, gives in due to irritation with Lawrence) He’s a tall black guy, he’s got a scar around his neck, okay? (Shot of inside the apartment, the figure moves into a viewable light; It is Tapp.) 
 Tapp! (shot of inside Adam’s apartment, Tapp handing us/Adam money. Adam’s/our hand reaches out and takes it quickly. Then, back to Lawrence) Detective Tapp! 
 Whoa, the guy who paid me to take these photos was not a cop. 
 No, no, he was discharged from the police force. (Shot of Tapp at his desk with the Amanda video, looking at notes.) He broke down after his partner was killed (Tapp and Sing sitting next to each other in Lawrence’s office), but that didn’t stop him from harassing me. (Lawrence sitting in the car next to Tapp) The guy became obsessed. (Tapp in his current apartment adjusting the camera in the window, then a shot of him leaning over a notebook, going over notes.) He’s convinced himself that I must have somehow been involved with the murders. He’s...he’s crazy. (Tapp at the corner desk in his apartment, giving a crazy-sounding Heh heh heh laugh. The shot cuts back to Lawrence, who points accusingly at Adam.) And you helped him. (disgusted) You took money from him to invade my privacy. How could you do that? 
 (bite me tone) Call it my need to eat. 
 (sarcastic) Right, right. You know what Adam? You’re not a victim of this game, you’re a part of it. (Points accusingly at him as he says this.) 
 Oh really? Obviously this cop thinks you’re the one behind it all. 
 (Facing into the corner of his cell, turning around slightly, internal eye roll.) I told you, he’s not a cop. He’s a bottom feeder, just like you. (A slight sneer from Lawrence at Adam. Lawrence turns back into his corner) 
 (getting REALLY pissed at Lawrence’s attitude towards him) What are you more pissed off about? The fact that I took some shots of you or the fact that I took some shots of you while you were cheating on your wife? 
 I did not cheat on her!!! 
 What do you care what I think anyway? I don’t give a crap if you covered yourself in peanut butter and had a 15-hooker gang bang! 
 (weakly) How did I get here? (Adam sits down on the pipe in his corner, leaning forward a bit.) I had...I had everything in order. (he lays down on his side, facing Adam, who watches him with sympathy) My whole life was in perfect order. (He holds up and looks at the picture of Alison and Diana gagged.) 
 Sweetheart, are you okay? (Diana shakes her head no) Mommy just needs you to be really, really, really strong right now. I’m not gonna let anybody hurt you. You got that? (Diana nods) Okay, that’s my good girl. (She starts crying as her hands work behind her to loosen the rope around them.) 
 Hey, was there someone else at your house last night besides your wife and daughter? 
 (on camera) No. 
 (still on camera) Well, there’s someone here. (He tosses the photo to Lawrence, whosits up, picks it up and looks at it. After a moment, the shot cuts back to a regular view of them, in the room.) 
 (realization) I know him. (We see the photo as well. It is a shot looking up into Lawrence’s window, with Zep standing there, looking out, completely unaware of his picture being taken.) Zep! (Cut to a shot of Zep listening. The shot goes back and forth between him as his eyes widen while Lawrence makes his threats.) His name is Zep. He’s an orderly at my hospital. (his voice becomes a growl, furious) Zep. You perverted little psychopath. I’m gonna take great pleasure in seeing you pay for this! You bastard fuck! 
 Look. (Lawrence momentarily breaks from his Zep rage, looks up. The clock reads at 6:00.) We’re out of time. 
 (crying) Mommy help me! 
 Dr. Gordon’s time is up. Now I’ve gotta do what I’ve gotta do, and...I’m afraid it has to be you that tells him he failed. (He undoes her gag, holds the phone to her head and his gun in front of her chest.) 
 (speaking quickly, the growling voice) Is that you Zep, you bastard!? (Adam gets up from his corner, moves forward slightly) I know its you, you son of a bitch! 
 Larry? 
 (his eyes widen, his fierce tone replaced with worry) Ally? 
 (looking right at Zep, firmly) You failed. 
 (who can only hear the sound of a struggle) Hello? Hello? 
 Don’t move, stay on the ground. Give me the phone. Give it to me! (He sits up a bit, carefully slides it to her. He is watching her, looking for an opportunity to overcome her once again. She picks the phone up, still keeping her eyes and her gun at him.) Larry? 
 Ally! Honey, are you all right? 
 No! No we’re not...(Zep starts to move up a bit more, his right hand out, leaning against the edge of the bed. Ally threatens him more fiercely with the gun.) Get down! Larry, where are you? 
 (unsure himself) I don’t know. I’m being held captive in a room somewhere. 
 (disbelief; she sniffles a bit) What? What are you talking about? 
 (starting to cry) I’m so sorry, Ally. 
 (desperate) Honey, we need you here. (Zep slowly readies himself to move forward, wide eyes still staring at Alison.) 
 (crying, apologizing) I’m sorry for everything. It’s my fault. Please forgive me. I’ve always been happy with you. 
 (cries out) Mommy! 
 (panicked) Ally! 
 (screams) Ally! (Adam watches him with wide eyes.) 
 Mommy, help me! 
 Freeze! 
 (trying to fix his gun) What the fuck? 
 Mrs. Gordon? (drops old cartridge out of his gun, pops in a new one) Diana?! (His breathing is fast, desperate. He clutches the wound on his leg.) I’m gonna kill your husband now, Mrs. Gordon. (He stands up a bit straighter and hobbles over to the computer station, taking keys from the desk and then hobbling down the hall and out the door. We see Tapp groaning, starting to get up. Zep glances over and sees Tapp get to his feet, but quickly hobbles to the doorway and out the door. Tapp starts to follow, just a we bit dazed from the hit. He empties his gun cartridge and replaces it, then runs towards the door, screaming. 
 Lawrence! (A bit of foamy spittle comes out of Lawrence’s mouth as the electrocution continues, and then a moment later stops. Adam watches, frightened, unsure. Lawrence is out.) Lawrence, get up! 
 (crying out, close to tears) Lawrence! Get up! I need you! (He leans down and finds a piece of debris on the floor, throws it at Lawrence. It doesn’t hit him. He leans down, picks up another, throws it. This one bounces onto the floor but ricochets and hits Lawrence, who begins to stir. A moment, and Lawrence starts to move more, reaching for his head and sitting up. Adam cries out in relief.) Oh, thank God! I thought you were dead! 
 (sits up, dazed and confused) He...he electrocuted me... 
 I told you! The same thing happened to me, see? I wasn’t lying, see? 
 (screaming) FUCK THIS SHIT!! 
 No!!!! (He lowers his head and cries loudly.) 
 (Frightened but trying to stay calm for Lawrence.) Lawrence, calm down. There must be a way out of this! (It seems to be a complete role reversal for the two of them from the beginning, where Adam was the one freaking out and Lawrence was calm. Here, Adam is terrified but still calmer than Lawrence, who has just lost it.) 
 (screaming) I can’t be calm! My family needs me! No, God! (He cries and screams, still can’t get the phone. He quickly turns and sits up, grabbing the chain and pulling it as he lets out a terrible scream of rage. Adam’s hands are up clutching his head, trying to keep his cool but having a very hard time.) 
 (Loudly trying to speak over Lawrence’s continued loud, primal screams.) Lawrence, I have a family too! I don’t see them, that’s my mistake. It’s a mistake I’d like to fix! 
 I’m gonna kill you you sick asshole! 
 (desperate, losing his attempted calm stance) Lawrence, stop it! 
 (sobs in his voice) Lawrence, please calm down! There’s a way out of here, there’s a way out! 
 Lawrence! No! Oh my God! What are you doing?! 
 (screaming/crying) What are you doing?! (Lawrence crawls on farther, towards the body.) 
 What are you...(He suddenly realizes Lawrence’s intentions. His eyes go wide, and he starts to cry out and beg.) 
 Oh my God! Oh my God! Lawrence don’t! (Lawrence puts the bullet in, then closes the chamber) No! Lawrence, please, I’m begging you! (Lawrence aims the gun at Adam) Lawrence, it’s not me who did this to you! 
 (looking like Death, his voice hoarse) You have to die. 
 (His hands up in front of him defensively, moving side to side to try to throw off Lawrence’s aim) No, I want to live! 
 (moving the gun along with Adam’s movements) I’m sorry... 
 I want to live! 
 My family...(he aims and pulls the trigger, hitting Adam in the upper chest area. Adam falls down forward onto the floor, his screams stop.) 
 I’ve done it! Now show them to me! (he continues to cry, dropping the gun next to him, collapsing back down with his forehead to the floor.) 
 (OS, on phone) Thank you very much, Officer. 
 (on cell phone) Larry? 
 (hanging up the phone and going over to Alison) Did you get through to him? 
 There’s still no answer. 
 (reassuringly) It’s all right. I’ve called the police. Everything’s okay. 
 You bastard! I’ll fucking kill you! (Lawrence grabs Zep’s leg as he passes but is too weak and Zep pulls away, looking down at him, moving over to the other side of the body) I’ll fucking kill you! You fucking bastard! (Lawrence quickly cralws forwarrd and takes up the gun, pulling the trigger several times, but there are no more bullets. It just clicks.) I’ll fucking kill you! You fucking bastard! I’ll fucking kill you! I’ll fucking kill you! 
 You’re too late. 
 (weakly) Why? 
 It’s the rules. 
 (his voice very weak and shaky) You’re going to be all right. (Adam stops sobbing for a moment) You’re just wounded in the shoulder. I have to go and get help. 
 (grasping Lawrence’s shirt, begging.) Don’t leave me! No! 
 No!! (he keeps crying) No! No! (Lawrence crawls towards the door.) Lawrence! Lawrence! 
 (he pauses, turns to look back at Adam) Don’t...Don’t worry, I’ll bring someone back, I promise. (He continues crawling on, out the door while Adam watches him pathetically, still crying and reaching out for him.) 
 (thinking) Key...key... 
 (VO) Hello Mr. Hindle. Or as they called you around the hospital: (shot of Zep in the hospital with his cleaning cart, stopping at John’s room) Zep. I want you to make a choice. (Shot of the closet doors in Diana’s room flying open, Diana screaming, Alison coming in and seeing him looming over her. Shot of him tying and gagging Alison and Diana. Shot of the photo of Diana and Alison tied and gagged.) There’s a slow-acting poison coursing through your system (shot of Zep watching the monitor, holding his hand to his mouth. He actually looks rather ill) which only I have the antidote for. Will you murder and mother and her child (Zep rocking aback and forth, getting ready to kill Alison and Diana) to save yourself? (Shot of Zep next to Alison, saying Dr. Gordon’s time is up; holds the phone to her ear. Shot of Zep in the living room, screaming Mrs. Gordon! Shot of Zep on the floor firing up at Tapp.) Listen carefully, if you will. There are rules. (Lawrence on the floor looking up at Zep, asks Why? to which Zep says It’s the rules.) 
 The key to that chain is in the bathtub. 
 
 JOHN’S VOICE Sick of people who don’t appreciate their blessings. Shot of Lawrence with Diana, checking his beeper, on his computer ignoring Diana and Alison, trying to kiss Alison as she pulls away. 
 (VO) Hello Mark, Paul, Amanda, Zep, Adam, Dr. Gordon. (As he says each name, the following image of them appears: A shot of Mark screaming with the safe, Paul in his cage while still alive, Amanda in her mask in the chair, Zep watching on the monitor, Adam holding the tape recorder to his ear, Lawrence holding the tape recorder to his ear. Then, a shot of the Puppet on the video as he says) I want to play a game. 
 (VO) Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. (John turns off the lights at the door, only the green lighting from the hallway illuminating him and then Adam just barely. John moves out the door, slowly.) But not you. (Adam reaches out for him and screams. John turns around and takes the door handle, starting to slide it shut.) Not anymore. 
 
. 
