 
 Yes General? 
 I'm going into the next office. 
 Yes sir. 
 Damn it! 
 (O.S.) I have been having ideas, gentlemen. Challenging ideas. And when I thought about these ideas I thought about who in the U.S Army would be most receptive to my challenging ideas. 
 (CONT'D) Which section of the military is always straining to reach the peak of their physical and mental capabilities? 
 You are, gentlemen. Special Forces. The assembled Officers nod modestly. 
... His audience stare at him. With a flourish he produces a BENT FORK from his briefcase. 
 No sir. We don't have access to animals. 
 (V.O.) In 1983, when Special Forces told General Putkin that they weren't interested in his ideas...that was a lie. 
 (V.O.) And when they told him they didn't have access to animals...that was also a lie. We FOCUS on the window - a shaky ZOOM taking us towards an abandoned looking HOSPITAL BUILDING half hidden by trees. 
 (V.O.) The hundred goats in the disused hospital building had been secretly flown in from Central America so as to avoid customs. Special Forces weren't worried about the General hearing the goats because they'd been de- bleated. The GOATS stare at us, their mouths silently opening and closing. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) This is the story of those goats. We CLOSE ON the unblinking EYES of one GOAT, then... 
 (V.O.) My name is Bob Wilton. Imagine me back in Michigan, where I was born and raised. I studied journalism at Western in Kalamazoo and then I got a job at the Ann Arbor Daily Telegram. I wrote a lot of stories about competitive food eating contests. He looks at the photograph of his wife Debora on his desk and up to where she stands, photocopying in DAVE the Editor's office. Dave is chatting to her. He has a PROSTHETIC ARM. Bob watches his wife, smiling. 
 (V.O.) My wife, Debora, told me later that Ron's death had been like a wake-up call for her - what people used to call a memento mori. Bob sits down, feeling a little ghoulish, at the dead man's desk. He notices a large INDENTATION on the leather in front of him - the mark left by Ron's forehead. He touches it, fascinated. 
 (V.O.) (A sad chuckle) It seemed like such a tragedy at the time. We couldn't see beyond our little lives to the great events of history unfolding out there in the world. JUMP CUT to Dave holding Bob in a head-lock with his one good arm. Debora is sitting, head in hands. 
 (on TV) Americans are a resolute people, who have risen to every test of our time. Adversity has revealed the character of our country, to the world, and to ourselves... Bob wipes his eyes, stares at the screen. 
 (V.O.) Had I known where that path would lead, had a soft wind from my future brought me the name of Bill Django, I might never have gone. But as it was, I did what so many men have done throughout history when a woman has broken their heart... I went to war. We hear the opening of a period song as we... 
 American troops pull down a huge statue of Saddam Hussein in central Baghdad. An American flag draped over the head is hastily replaced by an Iraqi flag. 
 Yeah, no it's been...well, I won't lie to you Debora - it's been pretty damn hairy. 
 (O.S.) (over phone, not as concerned as Bob would like) Yeah. We've been watching it on Fox. 
 Yeah, it's not, uh... I've seen things that you shouldn't, you know... He shakes his head sadly. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Pretty damn hairy. 
 (O.S.) Well I don't even know why you're there. You're not exactly war correspondent material are you? 
 
 (STUNG) Well, I think it's important people get an accurate picture of what's... 
 (O.S.) (to someone else) What? Yeah. 
 
 (O.S.) Yeah. He says Hi. Bob stares out of the window, nodding, afraid he might start to cry. 
 Oh, that's, that's... He BEATS his head off the wall for a moment. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Okay. Gotta go. We're moving out - heading up north to cover the fighting there... 
 (O.S.) You missed the war? 
 Yeah. They laugh. 
 How? 
 
 BOB (CONT'D) Yeah, I think they didn't want me going over because I'm not embedded. 
 Yeah, they don't like the unilats. The troops think the unilats'll stab `em in the back. When you're 
 (to Second 
) You see action? 
 Went into Baghdad with Charlie Company, Second Brigade, Third Infantry Division... 
 The thunder run? Heard you had it pretty bad. 
 Could say that. Technicals all the way, RPG's, fuckers were firing anti-aircraft guns at us... 
 You know a Private First Class Zuchero? 
 Zook? I was standing next to him when he took a hit... Bob sits ignored, feeling inadequate as they continue to swap war stories. 
 (To Waiter) So what's a useful phrase? 
 La termi, ana sahafi. Bob repeats this. 
 What's that mean? 
 Don't shoot, I'm a reporter. He walks off. Bob sighs, continues DOODLING in his notebook. We see he has covered the page in stylized drawings of EYES. He notices a A MAN IN A BASEBALL CAP sitting at the next table. 
 
 (SHYLY) Hey. 
 (without looking up) Hey. Bob reads the logo on the baseball cap. 
 DeWitt Resources. Arkansas. 
 
 (BEAT) Right. We make trash cans. 
 You over here for the conference? Looking for a contract right? 
 I guess. 
 What's your pitch? The man considers this. He looks up and we see his face for the first time - handsome, older than Bob, tanned, a moustache, a slightly haunted expression. This is LYN 
. 
 Well...we're real cheap. Bob waits for more, but that's it. He holds out his hand. 
 Bob Wilton. 
 
 Could I bum a smoke, Skip? Lyn shoves the packet across the table. Bob sits down across from him, pats himself down for a lighter, glances over to where the two embedded Journalists are joking with some Marines. Bob watches them jealously. 
 BOB (CONT'D) (patting his pockets in the dark) Oh crap, can't find my... A LIGHTER ignites in Lyn's hand, eerily lighting the lower half of his face, his eyes hidden by the brim of the cap. Bob leans forward to light his cigarette and finds himself staring at the CONFERENCE I.D Lyn has pinned to his shirt. The name on the badge reads LYN S. 
. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 (O.S.) This is the home learning course we're putting out, which is very popular. 
 Then there's the seminars. When I'm not teaching I spend a lotta time, right here, remote viewing. 
 Right here? 
 The kitchen table. That is correct. That's where my body is. But my mind...that's, you know... He gestures to the horizon. 
 Wandering? 
 Wandering. Roaming. Yeah. 
 So what have you seen lately? 
 Lately I've been watching the Loch Ness Monster in Scotland, England - which it turns out is the ghost of a dinosaur. That's an exclusive for you. 
 Okay. Wow. E.C.U of Bob's notebook - on which he has written You are Crazy. 
 BOB (CONT'D) So...when did this all start for you Gus? 
 It started when I was a kid. I used to lie on my bed and RV my cousin, Irene, undressing at night. Then, when I was in the army I joined Bill Django's unit. He trained me and the rest, as they say... 
 Right. I don't know who that is. Gus gives a dreamy smile. 
 I can't really talk about Bill. 
 So what did you do in the army? 
 We were Psychic Spies mainly. That was our initial tasking but...once they realized what they were sitting on, the forces at work... He stops, his face darkening. 
 
 (BEAT) You mean, what...with your...? 
 With our minds. That is correct. Just by staring at them. 
 
 (BEAT) Huh. What kind of animals? 
 One of our unit stopped the heart of a goat. 
 Wow.(Beat) I don't know what to say. 
 The power they unlocked in us... (Beat, sorrowfully) Last week I killed my hamster. (Beat) You wanna see? 
 You ever seen a hamster do that before? 
 Well, I've never owned a hamster Gus, so I don't know what... 
 Look at the way it's glaring at its wheel. Usually that hamster loves its wheel. 
 Maybe some of the readers have hamsters so... 
 Good. Then they'll know how rare that is. 
 Yeah, I guess any hamster-owning readers will know what's aberrant behavior and, uh, what's...Oh, shit, he's down! ON TV one of the hamsters has fallen over. 
 Yeah, he's down. At this point I'd been staring at him for about three hours. The other hamster falls over. 
 Oh my God! You've dropped both hamsters! 
 No, the other one's just fallen over. They watch in silence. Then the hamsters get up and start eating. 
) Bizarre. Right? 
 Well...it didn't die. I thought you said you killed it? 
 
 (SHEEPISH) Yeah well...(He gestures to his Mother) Mother said no. She said you might be a bleeding-heart liberal. She said "Don't show him the hamster dying. Show him the tape where the hamster acts bizarre instead." Bob looks to Gus' Mother who manages to look nervous and defiant at the same time. Gus stares at the blank TV, sips his coffee. 
 Who's the Skipper? 
 Lyn Cassady. After Bill he was the most psi-gifted guy I ever met. He was like an Occultic force. (Beat) I think he runs a dance studio now. 
... 
 Do you...do you know a Gus Lacey? Beat. Lyn gets up and walks away. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Lyn? (Beat) Skip? (Beat) Lyn? 
 Whoa! 
 You working for Hooper? 
 Hooper? No. I work for the Ann Arbor Daily Telegram. 
 How do you know about Lacey? 
 I interviewed him a few years ago. He'd been appearing on this radio talk show. Lyn relaxes his martial arts stance, shakes his head ruefully. 
 Little prick...what'd he tell you? 
 He said he joined Bill Django's unit in the army and was trained to, to, uh remote view? 
 BOB (CONT'D) And he said the Loch Ness Monster was the ghost of a dinosaur. Who's Bill Django? 
 (shaking his head in 
) Did he show you his "Home Study Course"? 
 Yes. 
 (walking off down the 
) Yeah I bet he did. 
 (hurrying after him) Are you...? Do you mean you corroborate his, uh...? Because, see, I thought he was just an idiot? 
 
 But you're saying there was a secret unit? Lyn stops, turns and stares at him. 
 We...don't...divulge. 
 Okay. Let me ask you something. What color were the chairs in the hotel bar? 
 
 (BEAT) Uh...? 
 You were in there for hours. What color were the chairs? 
 Um...brown? 
 They were green. How many lights are there in this room? Bob starts to look around. 
 A Super Soldier? 
 A Jedi Warrior. He would know where all the lights were. He could walk through a room and tell you how many power outlets there were. People are walking around with their eyes closed. At Level One we were trained to instantly absorb all details. 
 
 (BEAT) What's a Jedi Warrior? 
 You're looking at one. 
 You're a Jedi Warrior? 
 That's correct. 
 What does that...? I don't think 
 
 
 (BEAT) You've got super powers? 
 That's correct. 
 Hold on, let me...let me just... He takes out his NOTEBOOK, fumbling, trying to get into journalist mode. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Okay, so, so you're saying you were a Psychic Spy, like Lacey? 
 We prefer the term Remote Viewer. 
 How does that work? 
 Different Jedi had different techniques. Mel Landau used to visualize packing all his cares and worries in a little suitcase, to clear his mind. Steve Cuttle used to read Bible verse... 
 What about you? Lyn thinks about it. 
 Well, I find drinking helps. Also if I'm listening to classic rock music. 
 Yeah? (Beat) Like who? 
 I like Boston. Boston usually works. Bob jots this down in the notebook. 
 
 Invisibility. 
 (Taken aback) Invisibility? 
 Yup. That was Level Three. 
 Actual invisibility? 
 Well...yeah, that was the goal. But after a while we adapted it to just finding a way of not being seen. When you understand the, the linkage between observation and reality, you learn to dance with invisibility. Bob tries to follow this. 
 Like camouflage? 
 It's not like camouflage. We also practised Phasing. Crossing from particle to wave, from the physical realm to the plane of energy. Solid objects seem to pass right through you. It's starts with a breathing exercise... Lyn makes a weird shallow PANTING SOUND. 
 I don't...can I be honest, Lyn? I don't know what to make of this. I don't know what to say. This is amazing stuff. (Beat) How would you...I wanna...could I write a story about this? Lyn stops panting, takes a swig of whiskey, stares at the bottle, suddenly taciturn. 
 Not going to happen. 
 No, but see, I've been looking for a story Lyn. I was going to write about the re-build contracts but this...this is even better and 
 Not going to happen. 
 All I'm saying is we could talk some more tomorrow and... 
 I'm shipping out tomorrow. 
 You're going home? 
 Going to Iraq. There's this factory we might be partnering with in Al Qaim. Bob's face falls. 
 Oh. They sit in silence for a moment. Lyn passes Bob the whiskey. He takes a swig, his mind whirring... 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 
 (BEAT) What? 
 I could come with you, maybe, and... 
 Bob, I don't want to be a story, okay? I don't need the attention and... 
 No, listen, we could change names, stuff could stay off record and... 
 It's a war over there Bob. Okay? A war. I can't be looking out for you. Bob flushes with annoyance. 
 Well you know, you don't... I look after myself. Okay? I look after...And I've been in some pretty hairy situations before. I'm not, you know...I'm a journalist, Lyn. You understand? He slaps his notebook for emphasis. 
 BOB (CONT'D) A journalist. I go where the story is. 
 BOB (V.O.)(CONT'D) I was an American. I was Resolute. I wanted adversity to reveal my character to the world. And to my wife. And to that one-armed cunt Dave. Lyn is staring at Bob's notebook. He takes it from Bob and examines Bob's DRAWINGS OF EYES. 
 What's this? 
 What? Nothing. I was just doodling. Lyn examines Bob - something DIFFERENT IN HIS ATTITUDE. 
 BOB (CONT'D) What's the matter? 
 
 (BEAT) Nothing. He considers for a moment, struggling with himself, then seems to reluctantly come to a decision. He reaches into the bag on his bed and pulls out a dog-eared BOOK. He hands it to Bob. Bob examines the book - on the cover is a picture of Da Vinci's Vitruvian Man and the title Pentagon Report 92245. The New Earth Army Manual. Bob stares at the book. He opens the first page and reads... 
 (V.O.) 
 (READING) The U.S Army doesn't really have any serious alternative than to be Wonderful! Bob looks at the DISCLAIMER at the bottom of the page. 
 BOB(V.O.) (CONT'D) 
 (READING) This does not represent the official position of the United States Army at this time. Bob looks up at Lyn who nods gravely. 
 You wanted to know who Bill Django was? (Beat) He's the man who wrote that book. 
 
 (READING) The New Earth Army is a banner under which the forces of good can gather. The courage and nobility of the Warrior, blended with the spirituality of the Monk. 
 The Jedi Warrior will follow in the footsteps of the great Imagineers of the past - Jesus Christ, Lao Tse Tung, Walt Disney... 
 
 (READING) The role of The New Earth Army is to RESOLVE CONFLICT world-wide. Jedis will parachute into war zones, utilizing sparkly eyes technique, carrying symbolic flowers and animals, playing indigenous music and words of peace... INSERT: An illustration of a SOLDIER CARRYING A LAMB and some LILIES - with what appears to be some kind of loudspeaker strapped to his shoulder. 
 BOB (CONT'D) What's the sparkly eyes technique? Lyn raises his shades and twinkles his eyes at Bob for a moment. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Okay. 
 You see it? 
 I think so. (Beat) Lyn? 
 Yeah? 
 Who is this Bill Django? Lyn draws on his cigarette thoughtfully. 
 I don't know where to begin. 
 Bill always said it started for him when he fell out of a helicopter in Vietnam. 
 Oh, man... He tries to pull his finger free, glances up and FREEZES. Ahead of Bill and his Platoon is a WALL OF DEAD AMERICAN TROOPS - rotting in the sun. His men stand staring at the wall aghast. A PRIVATE beside Bill snaps and opens FIRE, yelling wildly. 
. Everyone stares at the dead man. Another shot rings out - another SOLDIER DROPS. The others flinch, scan the tree- line ahead of them. 
 
 (trying to free his 
) Okay! Silence. Long pause. 
 What? 
 What the fu...! Why isn't anyone firing? His men stare back at him, frightened. 
 (V.O.) Every single one of Bill's men fired high. They instinctively hadn't wanted to shoot another person. Later Bill would come across a study by General S.L.A Marshall, which revealed that only 15-20 percent of fresh soldiers shot to kill. The rest aimed high, didn't fire at all, or pretended to be busy doing something else. Bullets still flying above her head, the Woman stops running, crouches down and RETURNS FIRE. Bill is SHOT, stumbles backwards and falls into the mud, his finger still stuck in his M-16. He lies there, staring up at the sky, his expression one of puzzlement, as a huge blood stain spreads over his chest. BILL'S P.O.V - the edges of our vision darken down as the sound FADES OUT. The darkness flows inwards, as if an IRIS IS CLOSING DOWN - until only a PIN-POINT OF WHITE LIGHT remains in the centre of the sky. We begin to move towards the light, slowly at first and then faster and faster. Just as we are about to reach it, a VISION OF THE FACE OF the VC WOMAN appears, filling the white disc. 
 
 (V.O.) Recovering in hospital, Bill wrote to General T.L Cornplow, Vice Chief of Staff for the Army, explaining that he wanted to go on a fact-finding mission to explore alternative combat tactics. The Pentagon agreed to pay his salary and expenses for the duration of the journey. We hear the opening of a period song as we... 
 (V.O.) What Bill hadn't told the Pentagon was that he was really looking for the answer to the riddle of his vision. How could his men's gentleness, their general lack of interest in killing people, how could this be turned into a strength? How could love and peace help win wars? Bill knew where to go to find out. 
. Bill senses someone staring at him and glances over to the Meditator next to him - Aviator shades, a baseball cap pulled low, empty cigarette holder clenched between his teeth. The Meditator continues to stare intently at him. Then opens his coat to reveal the Magnum .45 strapped to his chest. Bill smiles nervously. An ARROW identifies the gunman as 
 HUNTER S. THOMPSON. 
 (V.O.) Bill disappeared into the New Age Movement for six years. Bill feels Thompson staring at him. He smiles nervously. 
 (V.O.) Like all Shamen before him, he had traversed the wilderness. Now he was returning to his people, a changed man. The SENTRIES at the gate check Bill's PASS suspiciously. 
 
 (BEAT) Does it direct your powers? 
 What? 
 The cone. Does it direct your psychic powers or something? 
 No. 
 What does it do? Lyn takes some BURGERS out of a cooler box and puts them into the cone. 
 It cooks supper. He examines the stove approvingly. 
 Yes. (Beat) But... He stops. 
 What? 
 Nothing. 
 Go on - what? 
 Well it's just...it's hard to believe the Pentagon paid for this. I mean, it's very interesting, but there's nothing in here that's actually about...fighting? 
 The New Earth Army was tasked with preventing conflict. We're a force of peace, not war. Bill realized if you want to change the world, you've got to start by changing the armies. He was the one that started the research into non- lethals. 
 Non-lethals? Lyn flicks away his cigarette. 
 Check this out. He takes a yellow PLASTIC BLOB from his pocket with a flourish. 
 
 (LAUGHS) The Predator? (Beat) That's a plastic blob, Lyn. (Pointing at the blob) That's a... Before he can finish Lyn has slipped Bob's finger into a hole in the middle of the blob and twisted it. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 You see? You're mine now. The Predator is completely biodegradable. It's friendly to the earth but it can hurt you in a hundred ways. He takes the blob off the finger and rubs it's serrated edge down Bob's temple. 
 
! 
 It has warrior functions.(Beat) And it looks a bit funny. This is New Earth Army technology. Lyn sticks the Predator in Bob's ear and hauls him to his feet. Bob yells with pain. 
 Stop it! Stop hurting me! Lyn stares at the blob fondly. 
 I bought it on line. What's cool about it is that you could see this lying on the ground and you'd never know it had such lethality. Bob holds his ear and pants for breath. Lyn's face lights up. 
 No!!!!! 
 I think it's officially night now. Lyn kicks at the stove. 
 
 (Off Bob's look) ) I've got Crohn's. The steroids help. 
 I'd like us to begin this with a mantra. If we could all breathe in and then out, holding a long "eeeeee." The OFFICERS stare at him. There are sniggers. Bill stares them down. 
 
 ee. They finish. Bill nods, smiling, stares around at them. 
 We are a Hollow Army, gentlemen. Vietnam has crushed our soul. We are traumatized and melancholic. We are ashamed. That is why I have brought you to this place of Sanctuary. Here we can mend our wounds and dream our dreams. My dream is of an America that will lead the world to paradise, an America that no longer has an exploitative view of natural resources, that no longer promotes consumption at all costs. I believe this is America's destiny. 
 (V.O.) Amongst Bill's audience that night was Brigadier General Dean Hopgood, from the Defense Intelligence Agency. For some time the General had been concerned about information he had been receiving about Soviet research into psychic powers. 
 (V.O.) According to some stories the Soviets were psychically spying on American bases and had designed "psychotronic generators" - machines capable of bombarding the President with negative energy. 
 (V.O.) They were also conducting sadistic experiments to see whether animals had psychic powers. 
. 
 (V.O.) Could they, for instance, telepathically detect that their babies were distressed? 
. 
 But why did the Soviets begin this type of research? 
 
 (BEAT) What attempt? 
 So, they've started psi research because they thought we were doing psi research, when in fact we weren't doing psi research? 
 (V.O.) Two weeks later the Army adopted the slogan Be All You Can Be and appointed Bill Commander of the first New Earth Army Battalion. 
 
 (As he runs) Oh God. Oh God. He stops, staring at the immense empty landscape ahead of him. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
! 
 (O.S.) What? Bob turns and sees Lyn in a YOGA pose on the roof of the car. 
 I didn't...I thought...What are you doing? 
 Salute to the Sun. He finishes and jumps down. 
 What are you doing? 
 Cloud bursting. Keeps me in shape. Bob stares up at the clouds. 
 Really? Which one? 
 
 That one? 
 No. That one. The big one. 
 Isn't that one too far away? Lyn looks at Bob like he's crazy. 
 They're all far away. 
 Jesus Lyn. You had like the whole desert to drive in... Lyn rubs his face ruefully. 
 Yeah. I'm sorry about that Bob. Must have got a little bi- locational there, you know? But don't worry. Someone'll come along soon. 
 Heads. 
 (checking the coin) Right. He tosses again. 
 Heads. 
 
 BOB (CONT'D) What's your record at this? 
 Two hundred and sixty four. Tails. 
 
 BOB (CONT'D) (scrambling to his 
) Oh thank Christ. Bob scuttles into the middle of the road, waving frantically. The pick-up slows and pulls over. A YOUNG IRAQI MAN looks out at them. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Can you help us? We drove into a rock. Could you take us to a town or someplace? Smiling, the Iraqi gestures to the back of the pick-up. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 Hi! Hello there. Thanks so much for this. The two Young Men smile in a friendly fashion. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
 (to the other) Deep Purple. They laugh. 
 (laughing too) Oh, you speak English? Great. Deep Purple. Right. You guys like Deep Purple? You like rock or, or... He suddenly notices the Young Iraqi is holding a HANDGUN. The Driver leans out the window and shouts something over the roar of the engine. The Young Man next to Lyn takes off his scarf and starts to blindfold Lyn with it. 
 BOB (CONT'D) (smile fading) Lyn? Is this...is this...? 
 
 We're going to die! I'm going to be killed by Al Qaeda! 
 I don't think they're Al Qaeda. 
 Oh what the hell do you know? You don't know! You don't know anything! And this is all your fault! 
 Bob, there's something I have to tell you. When I said I was retired from the unit, that was a lie. I'm on a mission. DeWitts was just my cover. I've been reactivated. I couldn't tell you because this is a Black Op, but...I think you have a part to play. I think that's why you're with me. Bob collapses face down on the mattress. 
 
 Have you heard of Optimum Trajectory before? (No answer) Your life is like a river, Bob. If you're aiming for a goal that isn't your destiny, you will always be swimming against the current. Young Ghandi wants to be a stock-car racer? Not gonna happen. Little Anne Frank wants to be a High School teacher. Tough titty Anne. That's not your destiny. But you will go on to move the hearts and minds of millions. Find out what your destiny is and the river will carry you. Now sometimes events in life give an individual clues as to where their Destiny lies. 
 How are we gonna stop them? There's three of them! And they've got guns! 
 We're Jedi, Bob. The Jedi don't fight with guns. We fight with our minds. 
 What do you mean? 
 Let's say we have no choice but to fight with these men. Then we use visual aesthetics to instill psychically in the enemy a disincentive to attack. 
 
 (BEAT) What do you mean? 
 Okay, you lock eyes with one of them, you go into a monotone and you say "No, I'm not going to attack you." You totally relax your body and your voice. And then you rip out one of his eyeballs. 
 We haven't got a pen. 
 
 (SIGHS) You're missing the point. (Standing up) Here let me show you something. Stand up. Bob stands up reluctantly. 
 Oh...I don't want to Lyn. 
 Choke me. What am I gonna do? (pointing at his throat) Just here. Choke. Choke. 
 I don't think I...there's sharp edges around here... 
 C'mon...(making quotation marks with his fingers) "Attack me." Bob stares at him, a little annoyed by this. 
 What's with the quotation fingers? That's like implying I'm you know...only capable of ironic attacking or... 
 Quit jawing, Bob, and choke me. 
 
 (BEAT) Well, if I choose to choke you, what are you going to do? 
 I'm going to interrupt your thought pattern. 
 (in pain) Sharp...edges... 
 (helping him up) You felt fear didn't you? Before hand? Bob massages his back, impressed despite himself. 
 Yes. 
 Would you say that level of fear was abnormal for you? Bob thinks about this. 
 I don't know. I was pretty terrified anyway but the fear I felt on the run-up to the choking did seem, you know, unusual. 
 
 Okay. We go. 
 
 That's okay. You learnt a lesson. "Whatever you fear most has no power - it is your fear that has power." 
 
 Oprah. 
 Uhuh. (Beat) You really don't work for DeWitts? 
 Just my cover. 
 
 (BEAT) Gus Lacey said you ran a dance studio. That was just cover too, right? 
 No. I do run a dance school. I love dance. 
 Oh. Okay. (Beat) And you're really on a mission out here? 
 In time, Bob. 
 
 (BEAT) Were you just kidding me back there - about me having some Jedi in me? 
 We learn to recognize our own kind after a while. You ever dream about flying? 
 Yes. 
 That's one of the signs. 
 Do you really think so? 
 Don't you? Haven't you always really felt you were different? Bob considers this. 
 Yes. Yes I have. 
 That's the way it is for us. We're the ones who don't fit in as kids. 
 Have you always had powers? 
 Kind of. They used to call me the Jinx. 
 Why? 
) Foxtrot-117 has launched. Tracking now. Charlie-Oscar 31.8066667... Lyn (30's), in uniform, walks past and both computers 
. 
 (over speakers) We just lost contact! Request status? Oh Crap! The TECHNICIANS turn to stare after Lyn. We hear a SIREN begin to wail. 
 
. 
 I am Lieutenant Colonel Bill Django. From now on, you will speak only when spoken to, and the first and last words out of your mouth will be "Sir, yes, sir!" Do you understand? 
 Sir, yes, sir! 
 If you complete this course you will be a Psychic Weapon, an Angel of Death, our enemies Worst Nightmare! Until then you are Nothing! Less than Nothing! Do you understand? 
 
 
 Okay! Give it everything you've got! That's it! The Jedis start to dance more frenetically, eyes closed, jumping about the room, waving their arms... Bill notices Lyn, shuffling self-consciously from foot to foot. 
 Lyn Cassady sir. 
 Where you from? 
 Opelousas, Louisiana, sir. Bill stares at Lyn, taking in his orphan air, his hunted look. 
 Tough place to grow up? 
 
 But that isn't true is it Lyn? You can dance. It's just someone told you not to. 
 LYN'S FATHER Stop acting so fucking QUEER! He throws his beer can at Lyn and walks on. Lyn stares after him, upset. The RADIO abruptly catches FIRE. 
 Well, I'm your commanding officer Lyn, and I'm ordering you to let the dance out! Lyn starts to dance with a little more abandon. 
 Ommmm... 
 
 (CALMLY) Okay, you're doing very well. Now feel the next bend... 
 Okay, only when you're ready. The Jedi nods nervously, hesitates, starts to WALK ON THE COALS, almost immediately starts to SCREAM. 
 Mother Earth, my life support system as a soldier, I must drink your blue water. I pray my boots will always kiss your face and my footsteps match your heartbeat. I am yours and you are mine. I salute you. 
 (V.O.) After years of feeling like an oddball Lyn had finally found a home. At last he was amongst men who prided themselves on being different. 
 (V.O.) These were Golden Days for Lyn. There was something so noble and pure in Bill's vision that the Jedis felt themselves inspired to be more than soldiers. In a world torn apart by greed and hate they would be a force for good, for peace. A BUTTERFLY lands on Lyn's outstretched hand. He watches it with a gentle smile. 
. 
 (V.O.) Larry Hooper was a failed Sci-Fi writer from Colorado, recruited to the Jedis after Brigadier General Hopgood met him at a spoon-bending party. Other guests laugh and applaud. 
 (V.O.) Right from the start he had made himself unpopular with the other Jedis. Scotty and his wife are walking off the dance floor. Larry stops him to shake his hand. 
 Congratulations Scotty. I'm sorry it doesn't work out for you two. Scotty's face falls. The other Jedis glare at Larry. One of them makes a move towards him but Lyn holds him back. 
 (V.O.) Larry made it quite clear that he despised most of the other Jedis. Feeling sorry for him Lyn sits beside Larry. Larry flushes red. 
 
 It's...it's something cylindrical? I think it's a pencil? 
 Okay. Larry? Larry rolls his eyes up in his head, speaks in a high wavering voice with a bad cockney accent. 
 This is Larry's Spirit Guide, Maud. I'm looking into the cupboard now and I'm seeing...I'm seeing...a tin mug? 
 Lyn? Lyn stares at his hands, focused. He looks up suddenly, puzzled. 
 It's a man on a chair. Bill unlocks the little cupboard and takes a photograph of the Lincoln Memorial. There are murmurs of admiration from the watching Jedis. 
 
 (BLUSTERING) Oh, no, wait. See, I thought you said K, not A! Bill ignores him, smiles at Lyn. 
 Bravo Zulu, Lyn. Outstanding. Larry looks daggers at Lyn. 
 Aikido is a vehicle for harmonizing ourselves with the Universe and the Way. Look upon these sessions as an opportunity to discover yourself and your training partner in a loving environment. 
 (V.O.) After a year's training, Lyn was given his first tasking. A senior Nato General had been kidnapped by Red Brigade members in Italy. Bill was unofficially asked if his unit would be able to help find him before it was too late. 
 
 (V.O.) It's true that the unit never found out whether any of their remote viewings were accurate or not. Nevertheless from that moment on Lyn's reputation soared. 
 Rank, medals...these things mean little to the Jedi. But growth in spirit, in wisdom, in psychic power, these things earn our respect. He presents Lyn with an EAGLE FEATHER. 
 (V.O.) The word soon got out in the intelligence community that there was a sergeant at Fort Bragg who could find whatever you needed found. It was as if Lyn could fly anywhere in the world without leaving his room. We TRACK INTO LYN'S EYE - UNTIL WE ARE INSIDE HIS MIND. LYN'S MIND P.O.V - We move towards the wall. 
 (gesturing again) Etaharrak! 
 Lyn? 
 
 Edkhol! 
 Don't move Bob. 
 (scared, whispering) Are you going to use the Blob? 
 Let's hope it doesn't come to that. One of the Insurgents stirs and says something softly in Arabic. The other laughs. Angrily the First Young Iraqi takes out a HANDGUN and levels it at Lyn. 
 
! Lyn raises one hand towards him. 
 You can put your weapon away. You're not interested in us. The Young Iraqi points the gun at Bob who starts to walk towards the truck. 
 Shit...shit... 
 (to the Iraqi, 
) We can go about our business. Apparently having had enough one the Insurgents pulls his own GUN out and aims at Lyn. The tension builds. Suddenly Bob remembers the phrase he was taught. 
 
 (BLURTING) La termi, ana sahafi! 
. 
 (V.O.) Ben Echmeyer was a Vietnam vet with sixty-three confirmed kills. He remains the only non-Korean to achieve the rank of Master in Kwa Ra Do. He was one of the Jedi teachers at Fort Bragg. 
 SHOOTING from behind Ben to the rows of JEDI RECRUITS watching with expressions of mingled admiration and horror. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) It was said he could have a tug of war with a dozen men and not move an inch. We PAN DOWN the back of BEN and find he is NAKED from the waist down. A SAND BAG is somehow hanging between his legs. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) He was also able to lift bags of sand on hooks hung through his scrotum. A RECRUIT raises a hand. 
 Sir, what's the practical application of this? 
 (V.O.) Another demonstration involved letting a recruit drive a jeep over him. This, in the end, was to be his undoing. Next second a JEEP roars straight over Ben, going at sixty miles an hour. We FREEZE FRAME on the JEEP. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) Before his untimely death Ben caused quite a stir by advocating his controversial "shock and awe" knife attack method. 
 (V.O.) The approach was hailed by some knife aficionados as revolutionary but criticized by others who believed that the leaping and spinning might lead you to accidentally stab yourself. TRACKING ALONG BEN'S TRAINEE JEDIS - as they watch his display. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) Lyn Cassady, however, became a firm convert to the style. We reach LYN who TURNS TO CAMERA. 
 Ben, you're not forgotten. The knife you gave me lies next to my beret. God bless Ben Echmeyer. 
 (V.O.) Of course, Lyn didn't actually have a knife with him at this particular time...so I still think what he did was kinda...reckless. The Insurgent, understandably startled, flinches backwards, trips over the water bottle and falls on his ass. Lyn scoops up the gallon bottle of water and begins to POUND the fallen man with it. The Young Iraqi moves to intervene but Lyn smacks him in the face with the bottle. The BLINDFOLDED IRAQI IN THE TRUCK manages to open the door and stumbles out, claws his blindfold off and races away over the sand. The second Insurgent is distracted for a moment by his victim's flight. When he turns back Lyn has scooped up the Insurgent's GUN and is aiming it at him. Beat. Nobody moves. 
 (pulling his head back in) They're not coming! We're okay! Oh God, we're gonna be okay! The Truck crests a hill and we see the IRAQI MAN running desperately down the road ahead of us, his hands tied. 
 There he is. He puts his foot down and the truck roars after the running man. 
) Sir? You're okay! We're Americans. We're here to help you! Terrified the Man sprints faster. Lyn tries to pass him, but the Man veers at the same time and the truck CLIPS him, sending him flying. 
 What happened? 
 
 Sir? Are you okay? (Beat) Bob, give me a hand here will you? Bob gets out and the two lift the Iraqi Man and begin to carry him back towards the truck. They stop listening to an approaching rumble. 
 Oh shit! Oh shit, they're coming! They scuttle faster back towards the truck, the Iraqi Man dangling between them. Next second, two GLEAMING WHITE SUVs crest the hill and roar towards them. Seeing the road blocked by the truck, the SUVs screech to a halt and several MEN IN FLAK JACKETS AND SUNGLASSES tumble out in formation, aiming their M-16's at Lyn and Bob. ARMED MEN'S P.O.V - Lyn and Bob stare at them before dropping the bound Iraqi on the ground. Bob waves nervously. 
 (O.S.) Then I say "There it is. The Future!" Bob and the Iraqi Man sit beside TODD - a suit. Lyn sits behind in between two of the PRIVATE SECURITY GUARDS, who are nodding along to the music playing in the car. Nixon, holding the LAPTOP for Bob to see, watches the screen, moved. 
 NIXON (CONT'D) We play this on these big screens at the conferences, you know? This trumpet music blasting out. Every time I see it, it gets me. He glances over at the Iraqi Man who is holding a dressing to the cut on his forehead, pale and shaken. 
 NIXON (CONT'D) You a businessman, sir? The Iraqi Man nods. 
 NIXON (CONT'D) Yeah, Ali Babas have been targeting locals lately.(Holding out his hand) Todd Nixon, Army Small Business Office. 
 
 Ask me what business I'm in, Muhammad. 
 
 (WEAKLY) Mahmud. What business are you in sir? 
 Right now, I'm in the Quality of Life business. Nixon nods, smiling, pleased with the line. 
 NIXON (CONT'D) (To Bob) We've got 25 million Iraqis out here who wanna be independent, wanna make something of their lives. But more than anything else they wanna buy stuff. Cell phones, digital cameras, leisure suits - you name it. If it sells in Boston, then we can damn well sell it in Baghdad! (To Mahmud) Am I right Muhammad? (To Bob) He knows what I'm talking about. We've got Halliburton, Parsons, Perini...just in the primes. We're gonna have Macdonalds, we're gonna have Starbucks...No corporate tax. It's a gold-rush. Oh, and by the way, fuck the French! (Laughing) Did you hear that shit? Chirac wants to bring French contractors in? Can you believe that? Hey, Phil? Raise one hand if you like the French. 
 
 (making conversation) What's Krom? The Security Guard continues to watch him through his mirrored shades. 
 (Texan accent) God of War. 
 
 Conan the Barbarian. S'in the movie. Lyn injects himself. 
 Right. Lyn notices the Chilean Security Guard on his other side has a tattoo on his arm - "Viva Pinochet!" 
 
 (To Bob) I was pretty down for a while about not getting any trigger time in this war Bob, but you know what I've learnt? Our greatest weapon against evil is commerce. When these people have quality consumer items they will no longer want to kill Americans. He turns to gaze at the TOWN they are now driving into. 
 NIXON (CONT'D) We're not gonna rest until there's a satellite dish on every one of 
 (O.S.) (Over radio) We've got a line for the gas station here. Are we waiting? 
 NIXON'S DRIVER (into radio) Negative. We'd be way too exposed. We're taking the station. Go in fangs out. He accelerates. 
 (cheerfully, out of the window) He did fill her up last time Gary. 
 (muttering to 
 NIXON (CONT'D) Trying to help you fucking savages. Mahmud, Bob and Lyn are lying flat on the seats. 
 My house is not far. We could walk from here. Bob flinches as another bullet ricochets off the SUV. 
 Sounds good Muhammad. 
 Mahmud. 
 (V.O.) Muhammad led us to his home which it turned out had been robbed in his absence. We TRACK past a row of BULLET HOLES in the wall, a section of smoke damaged wall paper. 
 What is this? 
 Taameeyah. 
 They're really good. Bob nods politely. Mahmud nods, sighs. 
 (V.O.) I understood he was going     through a lot, but considering we     had saved him from kidnappers     I still thought his welcome could     have been a little warmer. Lyn clears his throat. 
 I'm very sorry for running you over, sir. Mahmud shrugs. 
 It was an accident. 
 
 (BEAT) And I apologize for that security detachment. Please don't think all Americans are like that. Mahmud nods. Beat. 
 I apologize for the kidnappers. Lyn demurs softly. 
 Not your fault sir. I mean we get kidnappers in America too, so...you know. There's always, uh, bad apples, right? The men eat in silence for a moment. Mahmud stares blankly at his plate, looking crumpled and lost. Bob watches him, faintly irritated. Lyn tries to think of something comforting to say. 
 No...that was right. They eat in silence. 
 Lyn? 
 What? 
 What are you thinking? 
 Just Mahmud. People try to build something of their lives, something lasting, something good... but there's always someone wants to smash it up... 
 (V.O.) Lyn was thinking of Larry Hooper and the part he had played in the destruction of the New earth Army. But, in fairness, the Jedis' own eccentricities hadn't exactly won them many allies in the Army. A JEDI - TIM KOOTZ - lies on the couch in a TRANCE, Bill sitting beside him with pen and paper. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) For example, there was Tim Kootz who, on being asked to ascertain the whereabouts of General Manuel Noriega, had replied... Tim jerks awake from his trance. 
 
 
 (BEAT) What's that Tim? 
 Ask Angela Lansbury. Bill looks up to an CIA AGENT observing from the next room. The Agent frowns. 
 We asked Angela Lansbury. 
 And? 
 She said she didn't know where General Noriega was. 
 (V.O.) Or there was the time Major General Gilling was visiting the base and saw Jedi trainee Clifford Hickox... RUSSELL'S P.O.V - we are driving past the training course. A bare-chested, long-haired Hickox is dancing around a wooden pole to which he is attached by two long wires and metal hooks which are stuck in his bleeding nipples. 
 BOB (CONT'D) ...practising the ancient Sun Dance of the Sioux Nation. 
 (V.O.) The Jedis survived such minor scandals, protected, it was rumored, by a President who was a fan of both the Star Wars films and the paranormal himself. But then, one summer, a young, likeable Lieutenant called Norman Pendleton was recruited to the New Earth Army... Larry Hooper examines the new recruit with interest. 
 (V.O.) Larry Hooper wasted no time befriending the newcomer. Desperate to compete with Lyn, Larry had been doing research into the infamous CIA MK-ULTRA experiments which he believed could enhance his own psychic powers. 
 (V.O.) All he needed was a lab rat to try them out on, check if they were safe. Larry, making sure Norm can't see, is pouring a massive dose of LSD into a DRINK. He gives the glass a quick stir and turns, smiling, to Norm with it. 
 (V.O.) It turned out they weren't. 
 
 (V.O.) Norm's father, who it turned out was pretty high up in the Pentagon, wanted blood. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) Although the Jedis were pretty sure Larry was responsible, nothing could be proved and when he was called to the disciplinary hearing Larry made sure to smear Bill with everything he could... 
 Lieutenant Colonel Django used funds from the project's black budget to procure prostitutes... The OFFICIALS listening register shock and dismay. Bill stands up, outraged. 
 That's a lie! 
 ...and also drugs for himself and his men. Bill jumps to his feet again. 
 That's a...(catches himself) Well the hooker thing is definitely a lie! The OFFICIALS look at him as if he were SATAN himself. 
 (V.O.) Brigadier General Hopgood resigned and died some years later. Bill received a dishonorable discharge. 
 Continue the work, Lyn. The World needs the Jedis, now more than ever. Lyn can't speak. Bill hugs him and walks off, the gates closing after him. 
 (V.O.) After Bill left, Major Holtz of Special Forces took command of the Jedis. Lyn stares at his reflection as his long hair falls to the floor. 
 I really appreciate this sir. 
 
 (PEEVISH) Jesus Christ. We could'a bought a map if you'd said. 
 Bedouins have been navigating this desert for centuries without maps. You can use a wrist-watch in conjunction with the sun. 
 Well? 
 What? 
 
 I haven't got a watch. 
 Oh for the love of...Here... He gives Lyn his watch. Lyn looks at the watch and turns to stare at Bob. 
 BOB (CONT'D) What? 
 This is a digital watch, Bob. 
 So? That's... 
 So you need a watch with hands for Christ's sake! 
 Well how the hell am I supposed to know? 
 BOB (CONT'D) You're the navigation expert here. You told me you could find the way. 
 Will, if you'd just be quiet for a... 
 Turns out you haven't even got a watch! Now what the hell are we... 
 Will you shut up? I don't need a watch. I'm using Level Two. 
 
 (BEAT) What? 
 Level Two. Intuition. We were trained to make correct decisions. Somebody runs up to you and says "There's a fork in the road. Do we turn left or do we turn right? And you go...(snapping his fingers) "We go right!" Bob stares at him. 
 Just...instant? 
 Instant. (Snapping his fingers) Just like that. 
 
 BOB (CONT'D) Oh, it's that way? 
 
 (GRIMLY) Yes. It's this way. 
 Right. Now you know. 
 
 (O.S.) 
 
 
 (BEAT) What? 
 Improvised Explosive Device. 
 Oh Jesus. 
 You're okay Bob. It's gonna be okay. 
 I can't believe this. Great fucking intuition Lyn. I can't...put me down. I can walk. Put me down. Lyn puts Bob down. Bob keels sideways onto the sand and lies there, wheezing. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Oh, Jeez. Oh, Jeez. 
 Alright, c'mon... He hauls Bob to his feet, puts his baseball cap on him and pulls him onto his back. Bob hangs there limply as Lyn sets off again. 
 Where are we going? We should stay with the car so the army can find us. 
 Fedayeen will find us first. 
 Well, I disagree. I totally disagree.(Beat) The Federal what? 
 Fedayeen Saddam. Paramilitary. Fellas who probably laid the IED. They could be on their way now. Hold this Bob. He passes Bob his backpack. They stagger on in silence for a moment, Bob jogging up and down on Lyn's back. Lyn snaps the legs off Bob's glasses, uses them as improvised divining rods to scan the sand ahead. 
 What are you doing? 
 Could be IED's or mines around here. I'm checking for disturbances in the telluric current. 
 (still dazed) Are they my glasses? Lyn doesn't answer, keeps on walking, struggling a little under the weight. Beat. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Jesus, it's hot. I'm so hot. (Beat) Aren't you hot? 
 (not unkindly) Bob? It's pretty important you keep your mouth closed, okay? You can lose a lot of water through an open mouth. He staggers on with him. 
 I can't breathe properly. I can't...Oh boy... He staggers, manages not to fall. 
 You're okay. 
 I think I'm bleeding to death. 
 You're not bleeding to death, Bob. It's shock, okay? It's just the shock. It'll pass. You're gonna be okay. 
 If we'd stayed at the road we would be safe now! Now we've got no water, no food or, or... (noticing Lyn's scanning) Will you forget about the fucking tantric currents? 
 
 Stop saying that! I just got blown up! I'm in the middle of a desert! 
 Bob, you're suffering from shock. If you start panicking now your heart's gonna stop. Bob stares after him incredulously. 
 (losing it) Is that...is that supposed to calm me down?! (hurrying after him) You know what color the seats were in the frigging hotel but you can't...you wanna observe something Lyn? Observe the fucking bomb in the middle of the road! 
 BOB (CONT'D) Wait a minute. That's west. Al Qaim's in that direction. We're going the wrong way. 
 The mission isn't in Al Qaim. It's somewhere near Al Qaim. 
 Where? 
 
 (BEAT) I don't know. 
 Is that...is that...is that a joke? We've come six hundred miles and you don't know where we're going? 
 If the exact whereabouts of the Target was known it wouldn't take a Jedi to find them, would it? Bob watches Lyn stare around him, looking pale and drawn and, for the first time, afraid. 
 Who gave you the mission Lyn? (Beat) Lyn? 
 Bill did. 
 What? 
 Bill did. He appeared in my trailer two months ago. A psychic projection. I could hear him calling my name. Bob is so staggered by this for a moment he can't speak. 
 
 He needed me. 
 Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus Lyn. There's no mission? We're in the middle of the desert because you heard voices? There's no one here! There's no-one fucking here. Lyn starts to walk off but staggers and falls. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Lyn! Bob rushes to him, kneels beside him. Lyn clutches his stomach, grimaces. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Is it the Crohns? 
 I don't have Crohns. 
 What's the matter with you? 
 I'm dying. Bob stares at him, stunned. 
 It's gone Bob. I can't find him. I've lost my power. It's the curse. 
 What curse? 
 (With profound 
) They took this... beautiful thing we'd been building and they corrupted it. They destroyed the New Earth Army. 
 Who destroyed it? Lyn stares at the stars above, remembering, grief stricken. 
 I did. 
 Yoga is not the business of the US Army, ladies. Drumming circles are not the business of the Army. And love and peace is most certainly not the business of the Army. So you girls better start thinking about how you CAN engage in the business of the United States Army, which, in case you have forgotten, involves winning fucking wars! 
 (V.O.) When the dust of the Pendleton Affair had settled it revealed a surprising victor. 
 (V.O.) Major Holtz regarded Larry Hooper as a patriotic whistle-blower and the one sound fruit in an otherwise dubious barrel of apples. 
 It's some scientific research I've done for possible offensive psi applications sir. (Beat) I did show the report to Lieutenant Colonel Django, but he didn't seem interested. Holtz snorts angrily. 
 
 (a sly smile) I think I know one sir. Holtz ponders the report, tempted. 
 But we don't have the resources. 
 Well sir...there is goat lab? 
 (V.O.) Goat Lab was originally created as a clandestine laboratory to provide in-the-field surgical training for Special Forces soldiers. We BOOM down to reveal that many of the goats have their legs in PLASTER. 
 (V.O.) But it turned out most soldiers didn't feel good shooting dogs in the leg... A SOLDIER stares doubtfully down at the dog, bolt-gun in hand. 
 (V.O.) ...whereas the army had long felt fine about doing stuff to goats - even testing atomic weapons on them. We hear the drone of an AEROPLANE high, high above. The goat looks up... 
 
 This was the real deal, Bob. I was at the Gateway. Afterwards I realized I'd got injured. 
 Huh? 
 Sympathetic injury I guess. I was bruised all over. 
 So, it's not that the goat fought back? 
 
 But...that was it? 
 I wish it was. Hooper told Holtz we should try the experiment again. Only this time they said...kill the goat. 
 Take out number four. Lyn stares at the number. 
 (V.O.) Lyn said he had no intention of killing the goat. 
 There was no way! What had the goat ever done to me? It was totally against the way of the Jedi. I was just going to pretend to try so they would say, "okay - it can't be done" and forget about it. But then, as I sat there, I felt this, this pulse start inside of me and...I couldn't stop it. He turns to look at Bob, haunted. 
 (V.O.) Maybe deep down inside some dark part of me wanted to see if I could do it? 
 Grainy, flickering black and white footage of the six goats in the room. Suddenly one of them goes down. 
 
 
 
 Collateral damage? 
 (eyes glistening) Collateral damage. (Beat) That was it. I'd used my powers for evil and it was like I brought a curse upon us all. Like that poem where the guy kills the seagull and they make him wear it round his neck. Every night I'd dream of that goat in its little bib, it's mouth opening and closing but nothing coming out... Bob shakes his head, stares out into the darkness. 
 The silence of the goats. Lyn flicks a suspicious glance at Bob, but is reassured by his solemn expression. 
 I finished my tour and I quit. I walked out of the unit and I never went back. 
 (V.O.) But before he could leave Larry arranged one last parting gift. Lyn tuns back to the gates and finds Larry Hooper standing in front of him, looking WIRED. 
 What do you wan...? Before he can finish Larry CHOPS his hand down in an odd blow onto Lyn's forehead. Lyn staggers back a little, holding his head. 
 The Dim Mak? 
 The Dim Mak. The Quivering Palm. The Death Touch. It's like this legendary, martial arts move. It was forbidden in the New Earth Army. Larry had got it from a mail- order book. 
 What does the Death Touch do? 
 (Beat, patiently) It kills you Bob. With one touch. 
 Jesus. 
 There's a story that Wong Wifu, great Chinese martial artist, had a fight with some guy and had him beat when the guy gave him this light tap, and Wong looked at him and the guy just nodded. That was it. He'd given him the death touch and Wong died. 
 Then and there? 
 No. Eighteen years later. That's the weird thing with Dim Mak - you never know when it's going to take effect. He flops back, too tired to talk anymore. Bob watches him as he falls asleep. 
 (O.S.) (in Arabic, 
 (O.S.) This is democracy. Let us work together for that. And please stop shooting at those who are only here to help. Lyn opens his eyes, looks around him. 
 Lyn? 
 
 Lyn! Lyn reaches the sliding doors of the building and drags them open and stands staring into the gloomy interior. Bob catches him up. 
 BOB (CONT'D) I don't think we should... He stops following Lyn's gaze... 
 
 (CHOKED) Hello Bill. Bill smiles hesitantly. 
 Hello Lyn. Lyn is too choked with emotion for a moment to answer. 
 This is Bob. 
 Hello Bob. Bob is too amazed to reply. 
 (O.S.) Oh good... Bob and Lyn turn to find Larry Hooper standing in the doorway behind them. 
 This is primarily a Psyops base. 
 Psy for psychic? 
 
 
 (READING) "American Soldier - your wives are back home having sex with Bart Simpson and Bert Reynolds." 
 Yeah, hadn't exactly done their homework there. Lyn is staring at Bill who is looking a little vacantly at the racks of CD's. Larry notices. 
 I remote viewed you. Larry smiles a little mockingly. 
 If this is Psyops what are you doing here? 
 I said primarily Psyops. This is a restricted area, you understand? Everything you hear and see stays secret or you go to prison. Bob nods a little nervously. 
 "Sick?" 
 It's pronounced psi-ike. Psychic Systems International Corp. Turns out certain people had heard about the New Earth Army and were interested in some of the work we were doing back then. They got in touch with me, I got in touch with Bill. 
 (To Bill) You're working for him? Bill frowns at the CDs, not seeming to hear. 
 Bill's been looking into subliminal messaging. (Selecting a disc) This is one we've designed to play to our own troops before combat. He puts the disc in a player and presses play. We hear a burst of a period song. 
 There's a subliminal message in this? 
 (reading the CD) This is..."Don't get drunk before firing heavy machine guns." We've got all sort of products in development.(To Worker) Tell them one of our new ideas. 
 Air bag mine? 
 Air bag mine. Non-lethal mine, catapults the fucker up into air. (To another) Gimme another one. 
 Excellent. Attack Bees. The Forces of Nature! Another. 
 We're not doing that anymore! (Throwing an eraser at the worker) Idiot! He turns back to Lyn. 
 (Without turning) Gonna get some ice-cream. Larry waits until Bill has left before turning back to Lyn. 
 You get the odd flash of what he used to be but... he's pretty burnt out with the booze. Larry shakes his head in apparent sorrow. Then he notices some candy on a desk. 
'S P.O.V - An IRAQI PRISONER sits huddled in the cell, illuminated in the flashes of a powerful STROBE LIGHT OVERHEAD. 
 (O.S.) (Lyrics from chosen song.) The prisoner looks terrified, and despite the whimsical music the whole scene is horribly sinister. Lyn steps away from the spy-hole. 
 
 It's the Dark Side. 
 What are you going to do? Lyn stares at the wall. 
 BOB (CONT'D) Lyn? What are you going to do? 
 It's too late...I'm dying, Bob. 
 Oh, you're not dying! I don't believe you can kill someone with a mail order Dim Sum. You can't... 
 Dim Mak. 
 Whatever. I don't believe you can just... 
 It's cancer. 
 ...just tap someone and ...it...(Beat) What? 
 I mean, I know it was caused by the Dim Mak. But...it's...you know...it's cancer. That's what the doctors say. Different ways of looking at...different names for a reality or, or uh... He lapses into silence. Bob is stunned. Lyn lies down. 
 I think you should go and see Lyn, sir. (Beat) he needs you. Bill doesn't answer. 
 BOB (CONT'D) The man crossed a desert to see you again. Bill takes a long drink, stares at the sky. Bob watches him with mounting frustration. 
 BOB (CONT'D) You know, he told me all these stories about Bill Django, and I was pretty excited to meet you, but I've gotta tell you...you're one big disappointment. Bill doesn't react. Bob starts to walk away then turns back, and throws the FEATHER down at Bill's feet. 
 BOB (CONT'D) He told me to give you that back. I don't know why. Its supposed to be a mark of honour isn't it? I don't see how you deserve that. Beat. Bill turns to look at Bob for the first time. He takes a long drink. 
 
 (BEAT) It isn't real. 
 What isn't? 
 The feather. Twenty thousand dollar fine for taking an eagle feather. This one's off a turkey. You just die the tip black. (Beat) Don't tell Lyn. Bill stares at the feather. 
 
 Oh. Didn't mean to wake you. The two men stare at each other. 
 
 (BEAT) Just tired. 
 How'd you find us? 
 I told you. I remote viewed you. 
 
 No. 
 Yeah, he did. We told Scotty we were coming over here, asked him if he wanted some work. 
 I haven't seen Scotty. 
 That's funny, because he told me he'd run into you and mentioned that there might be some jobs going with us over here. (Beat) Isn't that why you came, really, Lyn? You want back in, don't you? Lyn stares at him, disturbed, afraid this might be true. 
 (V.O.) I pray my boots will always kiss your face and my footsteps match your heartbeat. 
 
 (BEAT) Don't make a decision now. Tell me in the morning. He pats Lyn's leg, walks out. 
 Bill? Bill are you okay? Bill opens his eyes suddenly. 
 I just saw Timothy Leary. 
 
 (BEAT) Timothy Leary's dead. 
 I know. He's had an idea. 
 
 
 
 
 (BEAT) What? 
 Don't eat the jello. Lyn tries to puzzle this out but is distracted by Larry outside who seems to have noticed something in the sand at his feet - a small insect of some kind. He begins to watch it with strange fascination. After a moment he sinks to his knees in order to get a better look at it. One of the SOLDIERS notices and starts to laugh softly. His neighbor looks at him as if he's crazy then begins to laugh himself. Lyn looks around him, sensing the strange atmosphere creeping through the room. 
 What's going on? 
 We put LSD in the jello. Lyn turns to stare at him. 
 What? 
 Bill showed me where Larry had bottles of LSD. So we put it in the jello mix last night. 
 
 What? 
 I put it in the main water tank as well. 
 But...we've drunk the water. 
 
 (O.S.) (Into microphone) The weather? The weather is going to be HOT! Through the window we see Larry get on his belly to get a better look at the bug. 
 (Into microphone) I'm guessing. I mean, I haven't looked at the, the thing but I'd say it's going to be fucking HOT! Hot. Hot. Hot. The Producer pulls and releases the DJ's headphones so they slap against his head and starts giggling. 
 (calling down into the vehicle) You're going to hit the gates. You're going to hit the gates. The Stryker veers left and smashes through the perimeter fence and out into the desert. 
 SOLDIER (CONT'D) 
 (CALMLY) It's okay. You missed them. 
 
 That might have aroused suspicion. But don't worry. Over the years I have built up a massive tolerance to all narcotics. 
 In the name of the New Earth Army and loving people everywhere I'm liberating this base! 
 
 Wow. I'm hungry. He wanders off. 
 (O.S.) (Over loudspeaker, 
 (Beat, relieved) Okay, let's go. 
 We're very sorry. Ma'assalama. 
 
 (Over the sound of the engine) You are the mission Bob! You are the mission! Tell them what happened! The helicopter begins to rise. Bob stands swaying, staring up. Lyn smiles sadly through the window, raises his hand. The Helicopter RISES - HIGHER AND HIGHER. Bob waves goodbye. 
 (V.O.) At the time I was hurt that Lyn hadn't taken me with him. But now I know it was because he and Bill had already seen what was to come. 
 (V.O.) Nobody knows exactly what happened. The official story is that their helicopter must have crashed, either because they were hit by an RPG or because...well, that's what happens when you fly a helicopter while you're tripping on acid. All I know is they've never been seen since. Like all Shaman they returned to the sky. The helicopter disappears altogether. 
 (V.O.) When I got back home I wrote the story up. Everything. 
 (V.O.) I sent it to the newspapers, the radio stations, the TV stations, because that was what Lyn wanted me to do. The people needed to know. 
 (V.O.) I was ready for whatever they would do to me. I was ready to disappear. I was ready to go to prison. I was a Jedi and I was fighting for the New Earth Army. 
 BOB (V.O.) (CONT'D) (Beat) But they didn't put me in prison. They did something much worse. 
 
 
 (V.O.) That was it. That was the only bit of my story that ran anywhere. And it was a joke. And if I ever needed proof of how the Dark Side have taken the beautiful dream of what a nation could be and had twisted it, destroyed it, that was it. 
 BOB'S EDITOR Bob? 
 (V.O.) But I won't stop. I won't give up. Bob quickens his pace. 
 BOB (CONT'D) 
