 (V.O.) (Elvish: subtitled) "I amar prestar sen: han mathon ne nen, han mathon ne chae...a han noston ned wilith." (English:) The world is changed: I feel it in the water, I feel it in the earth, I smell it in the air...Much that once was is lost, for none now live who remember it. 
 (V.O.) It began with the forging of the Great Rings. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Three were given to the Elves, immortal, wisest...fairest of all beings. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Seven to the Dwarf Lords, great miners and craftsmen of the mountain halls. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) And Nine...nine rings were gifted to the race of Men who, above all else, desire power. (MORE) 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) For within these rings was bound the strength and will to govern each race. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) But they were all of them deceived. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...for another ring was made. 
. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) In the land of Mordor, in the fires of Mount Doom, the Dark Lord Sauron forged in secret a Master Ring to control all others. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...and into this Ring he poured his cruelty, his malice and his will to dominate all life. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) One Ring to rule them all... 
 One by one the Free lands of Middle earth fell to the power of the ring. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) But there were some...who resisted. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) A last alliance of Men and Elves marched against the armies of Mordor. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) On the slopes of Mount Doom they fought for the freedom of Middle- Earth. 
 Victory was near! 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) But the power of the Ring could not be undone. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) It was in this moment..when all hope had faded, that Isildur, son of the king, took up his father's sword. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Sauron, the enemy of the Free Peoples of Middle Earth, was defeated. SAURON'S ARMOR clatters to the ground. His body 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) The Ring passed to Isildur...who had this one chance to destroy evil forever. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) But the hearts of Men are easily corrupted. And the Ring of Power has a will of its own. 
! 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) It betrayed Isildur to his death. 
. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) And some things that should not have been forgotten...were lost. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) History became legend...legend became myth. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) And for two and a half thousand years the Ring passed out of all knowledge. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Until, when chance came, it ensnared a new bearer! 
 (V.O.) My Precious... 
 (V.O.) The Ring came to the creature Gollum, who took it deep into the tunnels of the Misty Mountains. 
. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) And there, it consumed him. A RASPY VOICE mutters in the half light... 
 It came to me. My own.     My love... (ecstatic whisper) My preciousness. 
 (V.O.) The Ring brought to Gollum unnatural long life. For five hundred years it poisoned his mind. And in the gloom of Gollum's cave... 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.)   (CONT'D) It waited. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) Darkness crept back into the forests of the world. Rumor grew of a Shadow in the East...whispers of a nameless fear. And the Ring of Power perceived...its time had now come. It abandoned Gollum. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) But something happened then the Ring did not intend... 
. 
 It was picked up by the most unlikely creature imaginable... 
 (to himself) What's this? 
 (V.O.) A Hobbit....Bilbo Baggins of the Shire. 
 (surprised) A Ring. 
 (V.O.) Lost!   Lost! My Precious is lost!! 
 (V.O.) For the time will soon come when Hobbits will shape the fortunes of all. 
: 
 You're late. 
 A Wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins, nor is he early. He arrives precisely when he means to. 
 It's wonderful to see you, Gandalf! 
 You didn't think I'd miss your Uncle Bilbo's birthday? 
. 
 What news of the outside world? Tell me everything! 
: 
 What, everything? Far too eager and curious for a Hobbit. Most unnatural... 
 GANDALF (V.O.) (CONT'D) Well, what can I tell you? Life in the wide world goes on much as if it has past age. Full of its own comings and goings, scarcely even aware of the existence of Hobbits... 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) ...for which I am very thankful. 
: 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Ah, the long expected party. So, how is the old rascal? I hear it's going to be a Party of Special Magnificence. 
 You know Bilbo...he's got he whole place in an uproar. 
 Oh, well...that should please him. 
 Half the Shire's been invited... 
 Good gracious, me. 
 He's up to something. 
 Oh, really? 
 Alright then..keep your secrets. Before you came along we Bagginses were very well thought of. 
 Indeed? 
 Never had any adventures or did anything unexpected. 
 If you're referring to the incident with the Dragon...I was barely involved...all I did was give your Uncle a little nudge out the door. 
 Whatever you did...you've been officially labelled as a Disturber of the Peace. 
 Oh, really? 
: 
: 
: 
: 
 Gandalf... I'm glad you're back. Frodo leaps expertly from the cart. Gandalf smiles. 
 So am I, dear boy...so am I 
 (O.S.) No, thank you! We don't want any more visitors, well wishers, or distant relations. 
 And what about very old friends? 
 Gandalf? 
 Bilbo Baggins! 
 My dear Gandalf! 
 It's good to see you. One hundred and eleven years old, who would believe it! 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) You haven't aged a day! Gandalf and Bilbo laugh together and enter Bag End. 
 Come on, come in!   Welcome, welcome!! 
 (Calling) Tea? Or maybe something stronger... I've a few bottles of the Old Winyard left, 1296...a very good year, almost as old as I am. It was laid down by my father. What say we open one, eh? 
 BILBO (O.S.) (CONT'D) I was expecting you some time last week. Not that it matters, you come and go as you please, always have done, always will. (MORE) 
 BILBO (O.S.) (CONT'D) You've caught me a bit unprepared, I'm afraid...we've only got cold chicken, bit of pickle, some cheese here...ooh, no, that might be a little risky... 
 BILBO (CONT'D) Er, we've got raspberry jam and apple tart...got some custard somewhere. Not much for Afters, I'm afraid. Oh no...we're alright...I've just found some sponge cake. Nice little snack. Hope it's enough. (comes into view) I could do you some eggs if you like? 
 Just tea, thank you. 
 Oh..right.     You don't mind if...? 
 No, not at all. Go ahead. A sudden loud knock on the front door. 
 I'm not home. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I've got to get away from these confounded relatives, hanging on the bell all day, never giving me a moment's peace. I want to see mountains again...mountains, Gandalf... and then find somewhere quiet where I can finish my book...Oh, Tea! 
 So, you mean to go through with your plan, then? 
 Yes, yes...it's all inhand.   All the arrangements are made. 
 Frodo suspects something. 
 'Course he does, he's a Baggins...not some block headed Bracegirdle from Hardbottle! 
 You will tell him, won't you? 
 Yes, yes. 
 He's very fond of you. 
 I know. He'd probably come with me if I asked him. I think, in his heart, Frodo's still in love with the Shire, the woods and the fields... little rivers. Bilbo stands gazing out of the kitchen window. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I am old, Gandalf... Bilbo looks at Gandalf sadly... 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I know I don't look it, but I'm beginning to feel it in my heart. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I feel thin...sort of stretched, like butter scraped over too much bread. I need a holiday...a very long holiday and I don't expect I shall return...in fact, I mean not to. 
 Old Toby, the finest weed in Southfarthing! 
 BILBO (CONT'D) Ohhhh, (smiles) Gandalf my old friend...this will be a night to remember! 
 Go on, Sam, ask Rosie for a dance. 
 (horrified) I think I'll just have myself another ale. 
 Oh, no you don't. Go on. 
: 
 (melodramatic) So, there I was...at the mercy of three monstrous trolls...Have you ever heard of a troll? Do you know what a Troll is? Great big nasty twenty foot high smelly things..and they're arguing...arguing about how they were going to cook us! 
 Whether it be turned on a spit or minced in a pie or whether they were going to sit on us one by one and squash us into jelly! But they spent so long arguing the whether-to's and why-for's that the sun's first light crept over the top of the trees...and turned them all to stone! 
 (urgent whisper) No, no..the big one...the big one! Pippin grabs a huge rocket. CLOSE ON: FIREWORK FUSE crackles with flame! 
 MERRY (CONT'D) (worried whisper) You're supposed to stick it in the ground! 
 It is in the ground. 
 Outside! 
 It was your idea. 
 Bilbo!   Watch out for the dragon!! 
 Dragon? Nonsense...hasn1t been a dragon in these parts for a thousand years! 
 That was good! 
 Let's get another one! 
 Meridoc Brandybuck and Peregrin Took...I might have known! 
: 
 Speech! 
 (clearing throat) My dear Bagginses, and Boffins, tooks and Brandybucks...Grubbs, Chubbs, Hornblowers, Bolgers, Bracegirdles and Proudfoots... 
 Proudfeet! 
 Today is my one hundred and eleventh birthday. Yes, and alas...Eleventy- one years is far too short a time to live among such excellent and admirable Hobbits! Tremendous outburst of approval! 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I don't know half of you half as well as I should like; and I like less than half of you as well as well as you deserve. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I have..things to do and I have put this off for far too long... CLOSE ON: BILBO'S knuckles turn white as he tightens his grip on the small object behind his back. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I regret to announce, this is the end. I am going now. I bid you all a very fond farewell!! Bilbo looks across at Frodo, hesitates... then... 
 BILBO (CONT'D) (whisper) Goodbye. 
: 
 I suppose you think that was terribly clever? 
 Come on, Gandalf!   Did you see their faces? 
 There are many magic rings in the world, Bilbo Baggins, and none of them should be used lightly. 
 It was just a bit of fun.   Oh, you're probably right as usual. 
 You will keep an eye on Frodo, won't you? 
 I'm leaving everything to him. 
 What about this ring of yours?   Is that staying too? 
 Yes, yes, it's in an envelope...over there on the mantelpiece. Gandalf frowns at the empty mantelpiece...Bilbo suddenly feels his waistcoat with a look of guilty surprise. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) No, wait. It's here in my pocket. Isn't that...isn't' that odd now? Yet, after all, why not? Why shouldn't I keep it? 
 I think you should leave the Ring behind, Bilbo. Is that so hard? 
 Well, no...and yes. Now it comes to it, I don't feel like parting with it. It's mine. I found it. It came to me! 
 There's no need to get angry. 
 Well, if I'm angry, it's your fault! It's mine. My own, my precious. 
 Precious? It's been called that before, but not by you. 
 So? What business is it of yours what I do with my own things? Bilbo's voice, shape and manner have suddenly changed. 
 I think you've had that ring quite long enough. 
 You want it for yourself! 
 Bilbo Baggins do not take me for some conjurer of cheap tricks! Bilbo cowers from Gandalf, disarmed by his power...a frightened Hobbit. Gandalf's expression softens. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) I am not trying to rob you. I am trying to help you. Sobbing, Bilbo runs to Gandalf and hugs him. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) All you long years we've been friends...trust me as you once did. Let it go! 
 You're right, Gandalf...the ring must go to Frodo. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) It's late, the road is long... yes, it is time. 
 Bilbo? 
 Hmmm? 
 The ring is still in your pocket. 
 Oh, yes. 
: 
 I've thought up and ending for my book..."And he lived happily ever after to the end of his days." 
 I'm sure you will, my dear friend. 
 Goodbye, Gandalf. 
 Goodbye Bilbo. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) (softly) Until our next meeting. 
 (V.O.) It's mine, my own, my precious. 
 (to himself) Riddles in the dark. 
 (O.S.) Bilbo! Bilbo! 
 (to himself) My precious...precious.. 
 (quietly) He's gone, hasn't he? Frodo steps into the living room. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) He talked for so long about leaving...I didn't think he'd really do it. 
 (mutters to himself) ...my own. 
 Gandalf? 
 Bilbo's ring. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) He's gone to stay with the Elves. He's left you Bag End... 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) ...along with all his possessions. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) The ring is yours now. But it somewhere out of sight. Gandalf rises hurriedly and starts to gather his things. 
 Where are you going? 
 I have some things I must see to. 
 What things? 
 Questions.     Questions that need answering. 
 You've only just arrived!    I don't understand... 
 Neither do I. Keep it secret, keep it safe. 
 (O.S.) Baggins!    Shire!! 
 (reading) The year 3434 of the Second Age...here follows the account of Isildur, High King of Gondor, and the finding of the ring of power. 
 (reading) It has come to me...the ring of power! (MORE) 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) It shall be an heirloom of my Kingdom...all those who follow in my bloodline shall be bound to its fate, for I will risk no hurt to the 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) ring...it is precious to me, though I buy it with great pain... 
 (reading) The marking upon the band begin to fade...the writing which at first was as clear as red flame, has all but disappeared...a secret now that only fire can tell... 
 (hissing) Shire? Baggins? 
 (terrified) There's no Bagginses around here! They are all up in Hobbiton...that way. 
: 
 (urgent whisper) Is it secret? Is it safe? 
 (bewildered) What are you doing? 
 Hold out your hand, Frodo...it is quite cool. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) What can you see? Can you see anything? 
 Nothing...there's nothing.   Wait... 
 ...these are markings. 
 It's some form of Elvish...I can't read it. 
 (ominous) There are few who can...the language is that of Mordor, which I will not utter here. 
 
 
 This is the one ring forged by the dark lord, Sauron, in the fires of Mt Doom...taken by Isildur from the hand of Sauron himself. 
 (quiet realization) Bilbo found it...in Gollom's cave. 
 For sixty years the ring lay quiet in Bilbo's keeping, prolonging his life, delaying old age...but no longer, Frodo. Evil is stirring in Mordor. The ring has awoken. It has heard its master's call. (MORE) 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) AT THAT MOMENT: A FLEETING, LOW WHISPER of BLACK SPEECH 
 But he was destroyed...Sauron was destroyed. 
 No, Frodo. The spirit of Sauron has endured. His life force is bound to the ring and the ring survived. Sauron has returned. His Orcs have multiplied...his fortress of Barad- dur is rebuilt in the land of Mordor. Sauron needs only this ring to cover all the lands in the second darkness. He is seeking it, seeking it, all his thought is bent on it. For the ring yearns, above all else, to return to the hand of its master: they are one, the ring and the dark lord. Frodo, he must never find out. SUDDENLY Frodo scoops up the Ring. 
 Alright! 
 (thinking fast) We put it away, we keep it hidden! We never speak of it again. No one know it's here, do they? Gandalf shifts uncomfortably. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) Do they, Gandalf? 
 There is one other who knew that Bilbo had the Ring. I looked everywhere for the creature Gollum, but the enemy found him first. 
 (V.O.) I don't know how long they tortured him...but amidst the endless screams and inane babble, they discerned two words. 
 (screaming) S...Shire! Baggins! 
 Shire!   Baggins!   That will lead them here! 
 Halt!    Who goes there? 
 Take it!   Take it! 
 No, Frodo... 
 You must take it. 
 You cannot offer me this ring. 
 I'm giving it to you! 
 Don't tempt me, Frodo. I dare not take it, not even to keep it safe. 
 Understand, Frodo...I would use this Ring from a desire to do good...but through me, it would wield a power too great and terrible to imagine. 
 But it cannot stay in the Shire! 
 No, no it can't. 
 What must I do? 
 You must leave, and leave quickly. Get out of the Shire. 
 Where?   Where shall I go? 
 Make for the village of Bree. 
 Bree?   What about you? 
 I will, be waiting for you at the Inn of the Prancing Pony. Frodo packs his food into his knapsack. 
 And the ring will be safe there? 
 I don't know, Frodo. I don't have any answers. I must see the Head of my Order. He is both wise and powerful. Trust me, Frodo. He'll know what to go. 
 You'll have to leave the name of Baggins behind you...for that name is not safe outside the Shire. helps FRODO into his coat. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Travel only by day and stay off the road. 
 (thinking) I can cut across country easily enough. 
 My dear Frodo, Hobbits really are amazing creatures. You can learn all that there is to know about their ways in a month, and yet, after a hundred years, they can still surprise you. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Get down! 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) (angry) Confound it all! Samwise Gamgee, have you been eavesdropping? 
 I ain't been dropping no eaves, sir! Honest. I was just cutting the grass under the window there, if you follow me... 
 It's a little late for trimming the hedges, don't you think? 
 I heard raised voices... 
 What did you hear?   Speak! 
 (panicked) Nothing important...that is, I heard a good deal about a ring...and a Dark Lord. And something about the end of the world, but...Please, Mr. Gandalf, sir, don't hurt me! Don't turn me into anything unnatural! 
 No? 
 
 Perhaps not. I've thought of a better use for you. 
 (V.O.) Come along, Samwise...keep up... 
 (V.O.) Be careful, both of you. The Enemy has many spies in his service, many ways of hearing...birds, beasts... 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) (low voice) Is it safe? 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Never put it on, for then the agents of the Dark Lord will be drawn to its power...Always remember, Frodo, the ring is trying to get back to its master...it wants to be found. Gandalf wheels his horse and gallops away. 
 This is it. 
 This is what? 
 If I take one more step it'll be the farthest away from home I've ever been. 
 Come on, Sam. 
 Remember what Bilbo used to say...it's a dangerous business... 
 (V.O.) ... it's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door...you step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's not knowing where you might be swept off to. 
 (V.O.) Smoke rises once more from the mountain of doom...the shadow takes shape in the darkness of Mordor; the hour grows late...and Gandalf the Grey rides to Isengard seeking my counsel... 
 For that is why you have come, is it not, my old friend? 
 Saruman! 
 Are you sure of this? 
 Beyond any doubt. 
 So the ring of power has been found? 
 All these long years it was in the Shire, under my very nose. 
 And yet you did not have the wit to see it! Your love of the Halfling's leaf has clearly slowed your mind. 
 We still have time...time enough to counter Sauron...if we act quickly. 
 Time?   What time do you think we have? 
 Sauron has regained much of his former strength. He cannot yet take physical form...but his spirit has lost none of its potency. Concealed within his fortress, the lord of Mordor sees all. His gaze pierces cloud, shadow, earth, and flesh. You know of what I speak, Gandalf...a great Eye, lidless, wreathed in flame. 
 (softly) The eye of Sauron. 
 He is gathering all evil to him. 
 SARUMAN (CONT'D) Very soon he will have summoned an army great enough to launch an assault upon Middle earth. 
 You know this? How? 
 I have seen it. 
 A palantir is a dangerous tool, Saruman. 
 Why?   Why should we fear to use it? 
 They are not all accounted for, the lost seeing-stones...we do not know who else may be watching. Gandalf throws the cloth back over the Palantir. 
 The hour is later than you think. Sauron's forces are already moving...the Nine have left Minas Morgul. 
 (shocked) The nine! 
 They crossed the river Isen in Midsummer's eve, disguised as riders in black. 
 (alarmed) They have reached the Shire? Saruman shrugs... 
 They will find the ring...and kill the one who carries it. 
 SARUMAN (CONT'D) You did not seriously think a Hobbit could contend with the will of Sauron? There are none who can. 
 SARUMAN (CONT'D) Against the power of Mordor, there can be no victory. We must join with him, Gandalf. We must join with Sauron. It would be wise, my friend. 
 (deadly) Tell me, friend, when did Saruman the wise abandon reason for madness? 
 I gave you the chance of aiding me willingly, but you have elected the way of pain. 
 (panicked) Mr. Frodo. Mr. Frodo! Frodo turns, surprised as Sam comes running towards him. 
 SAM (CONT'D) (worried) I thought I lost you. Frodo looks at Sam suspiciously. Sam glances down, embarrassed. 
 (teasing) What are you talking about? 
 (mumbling) It's just something Gandalf said... 
 What did he say? 
 He said..."Don't you leave him, Samwise Gamgee." (looks at Frodo intently) And I don't mean to. 
 (laughing) Sam...we're still in the Shire...what could possibly happen? 
 Frodo!   Merry, it's Frodo Baggins. 
 Hello Frodo 
 What's the meaning of this! 
 Sam, hold this... 
 (accusing) You've been into Farmer Maggot's crop! 
    (O.S.) Who's that in my field!     Get out of it! Get out of my field, you    young varmits! I'll show you...get out    of my corn. 
 (looking behind him) I don't know why he's so upset, it's only a couple of carrots. 
 And some cabbages...and those three bags of potatoes that we lifted last week. And then the mushrooms the week before. 
 Yes, Pippin, my point is, he's clearly over reacting. 
 Run! 
 That was close. 
 (groaning) Ow...I think I've broken something. 
 MERRY (CONT'D) Oh. 
 (turning on Merry and Pippin) Trust a Brandybuck and a Took. 
 What? That was just a detour...a shortcut. 
 A shortcut to what? 
 (excited) Mushrooms! 
 I think we should get off the road. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) (more urgency) Get off the road! 
 Frodo? 
 What was that? 
 Anything? 
 Nothing. 
 What is going on? 
 The Black rider was looking for something...or someone...Frodo? 
 Get down! 
 I have to leave the Shire...Sam and I must get to Bree. 
 Right...Buckleberry Ferry...follow me ! 
 MERRY (CONT'D) There's another one!! Frodo, this way! ! 
: 
 MERRY (CONT'D) Frodo, follow me! 
 Get the ropes, Sam. 
 (screaming) Frodo! 
 How far to the nearest crossing? 
 The brandwine bridge...twenty miles. 
: 
 Come on. 
 What do you want? 
 We're headed for the prancing pony. 
 Hobbits! Four Hobbits, and what's more, out of the Shire by your talk. What business brings you to Bree? 
 We wish to stay at the inn...our business is our own. To Frodo's relief, the Gatekeeper unlocks the gate. 
 All right, young sir, I meant no offense. 
 GATEKEEPER (CONT'D) It's my job to ask questions after nightfall. There's talk of strange fold abroad...can't be too careful. 
 Excuse me. 
 Good evening, little masters. If you're seeking accommodation, we've got some nice, cozy Hobbit sized rooms available, Mr...ah... 
 Underhill...my name's Underbill. 
 Underhill?     Hmmmm. 
 We're friends of Gandalf the Grey...can you tell him we've arrived? BUTTERBUR frowns... 
 (Puzzled) Gandalf...Gandalf...Oh... (recognition) Oh yes! I remember...elderly chap...big grey beard...pointy hat? Frodo nods with relief...Butterbur shakes his head. 
 BUTTERBUR (CONT'D) Not seen him for six months. Frodo is shocked. 
 (worried whisper) What do we do now? 
 Sam, he'll be here.    He'll come. 
 What's that? 
 This, my friend, is a pint. 
 It comes in pints?    I'm getting one! 
 You've had a whole half already. Merry watches Pippin go. 
 SAM (CONT'D) (tense) That fellow's done nothing but stare at you since we've arrived. 
 Excuse me, that man in the corner, who is he? 
 He's one of them Rangers; they're dangerous folk they are, wandering the wilds. What his right name is, I never heard, but round here he's known as Strider. 
 (to himself) Strider. 
. 
 Baggins? Sure, I know a Baggins...he's over there... 
 (loudly) Frodo Baggins. He's my second cousin once removed, on his mother's side and my third cousin twice removed on his father's side...if you follow me. 
 Pippin! 
 Steady on, Frodo! 
: 
 You draw far too much attention to yourself...Mr. Underhill 
 What do you want? 
 A little more caution from you...that is no trinket you carry. 
 I carry nothing. 
 Indeed? I can usually avoid being seen if I wish, but to disappear entirely... that is a rare gift. 
 Who are you? 
 Are you frightened? 
 Yes. 
 Not nearly frightened enough. I know what hunts you. Frodo jumps at the sound of a noise in the corridor. Strider deftly draws his sword. 
 (angry) Let him go or I'll have you, Longshanks! 
 You have a stout heart, little Hobbit, but that alone won't save you...You can no longer wait for the Wizard, Frodo. They're coming. 
!! 
 Where are they? 
 They were once men. Strider glances quickly at Frodo, then looks away... 
 STRIDER (V.O.) (CONT'D) (quietly) Great Kings of men. Then Sauron the deceiver gave to them Nine Rings of Power. Blinded by their greed they took them without question, one by one falling into darkness and now they are slaves to his will. 
 STRIDER (CONT'D) They are the Nazgul, Ringwraiths, neither living or dead. At all times they feel the presence of the ring...drawn to the power of the one..they will never stop hunting you. 
: 
 Where are you taking us? 
 Into the wild. 
 (whispered aside) How do, we know this Strider is a friend of Gandalf? 
 We have no choice but to trust him. 
 But where is he leading us? 
: 
 STRIDER (CONT'D) To Rivendell, Master Gamgee...to the house of Elrond. 
 Did you hear that, Bill? Rivendell! We're going to see the Elves! 
 Gentlemen, we do not stop until nightfall. 
 What about breakfast? 
 You've already had it. 
 We've had one, yes...but what about Second Breakfast? 
 I don't think he knows about second breakfast, Pip. 
 What about Elvenses, Luncheon, Afternoon Tea, dinner...he knows about them, doesn't he? 
 I wouldn't count on it. 
 MERRY (CONT'D) (exasperated) Pippin! 
 (whisper) The power of Isengard is at your command, Sauron, Lord of the Earth. 
 Build me an army worth of Mordor. 
 What orders from Mordor, my Lord. What does the eye command? 
 We have work to do. 
: 
 The trees are strong, my Lord.   Their roots go deep. 
 Rip them all down. 
 This was once the great Watchtower of Amon Sul. We shall rest here tonight. 
: 
 There are for you. Keep them close. I'm going to have a look around. Stay here. 
 What are you doing? 
 Tomatoes, sausages, and crispy bacon. 
 We saved some for you, Mr. Frodo. 
 Put it out, you fools! Put it out! Frodo desperately kicks dirt on the fire! 
 Oh, that's nice...ash on my tomatoes! 
 A! 
: 
 Go! ! 
 Back, you devils! 
 SAM (CONT'D) No! 
: 
 SAM (CONT'D) (horrified) Frodo! 
 SAM (CONT'D) (panicked) Mr. Frodo!! 
 SAM (CONT'D) Help him, Strider! 
 (grim) He's been stabbed by a Morgul blade. The Morgul Blade suddenly melts...vanishing into the air like smoke. Strider throws the hilt down in disgust... 
 Do something. 
 This is beyond my skill to heal. (urgently) He needs Elvish medicine. Strider lifts Frodo onto his shoulders. 
 Hurry! 
 We are six days from Rivendell. Frodo groans. 
 Hold on, Frodo. 
 He'll never make it! Close on: Frodo...head lolling about, barely conscious. 
 (fevered calling) Gandalf...Gandalf? 
 Is he going to die? Frodo's breathing is getting shallow. Strider looks out into the darkness. 
 No. He is passing into the shadow world, he will soon become a wraith like them. 
 (nervous) They're close. 
 (thinking hard) Sam, do you know the Athelas plant? Sam looks blank. 
 Athelas? 
 Kingsfoil. 
 Kingsfoil.     Aye.    It's a weed. 
 It may help to slow the poison. Hurry! 
 (O.S.) What is this? A Ranger caught off his guard? 
 (ELVISH: with sub titles) Frodo, Im Arwen...telin let thaed. I am Arwen, I have come here to help you. (urgent) Lasto Beth nin, tolo Dan na ngalad. Hear my voice, come back to the light. Frodo's eyes close. 
 Who is she? 
 (worried) Frodo? 
 She's an elf. 
 He's fading...he's not gong to last. We must get him to my father. Strider quickly lifts Frodo...placing him on the horse. 
 ARWEN (CONT'D) I have been looking for you for two days. 
 Where are you taking him? 
 There are five Wraiths behind you, where the other four are, I do not know. 
 (ELVISH: with subtitles) Dartho guin Berian...rych le ad tolthathon. Stay with the hobbits...I'11 send horses for you. Close on: Arwen grabbing the Reins of the horse. 
 (ELVISH: w/subtitles) Hon mabathon. Rochoh ellint im. I'll take him. I'm the faster rider. Strider clamps his hand over Arwen's. 
 (elvish:subtitles) Andelu I ven. The road is too dangerous. 
 (Elvish: subtitles) Frodo Fir. Ae anthradon I hir, tur gwaith nin beriatha hon. If I can cross the river, the power of my people can protect him. 
 What are they saying? 
 I do not fear them. 
: 
 Arwen...ride hard, don't look back. 
: 
 (elvish) Noro Lim, Asfaloth, Noro Lim! 
 What are you doing!    Those Wraiths are still out there! 
: 
 Noro lim, Asfaloth! 
 Give up the Halfling, she-elf! She draws her sword and yells at the Witch King. 
 (yelling) If you want him, come and claim him. 
 ARWEN (CONT'D) (Elvish) Non o Chithaeglir, lasto Beth daer: Rimmo nin Briunen Dan in Ulaer! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ARWEN (CONT'D) Nin o Chitaeglir, lasto Beth daer: Rimmo nin Bruinen Dan in Ulaer! 
 (upset) No, no...Frodo, no!     Frodo, don't give in...not now! 
 (V.O.) What grace is given me, let it pass to him. Let him be spared. Save him. 
 (frightened) Where am I? 
 (O.S.) You are in the House of Elrond, and it is ten o'clock in the morning on October the twenty-fourth, if you want to know. 
 (weak relief) Gandalf! 
 Yes, I'm here and you're lucky to be here, too. A few more hours and you would have been beyond our aid. You have some strength in you, my dear Hobbit. 
 What happened, Gandalf?    Why didn't you meet us? 
 I'm sorry Frodo. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) I was delayed. 
 Get up! So much for the power of the Ring or embrace your own destruction! 
 There is only one Lord of the Ring. Only one who can bend it to his will...and he does not share power. 
 (chilling) So you have chosen death! 
 Gandalf! What is it? Gandalf returns his attention to Frodo. 
 Nothing, Frodo... 
 Frodo!   Frodo!   Bless you, you're awake!! 
 Sam has hardly left your side. 
 We were worried about you--weren't we, Mr. Gandalf? 
 By the skills of Lord Elrond, you're beginning to mend. ELROND, LORD OF THE HIGH ELVES, steps up to Frodo's 
 Welcome to Rivendell, Frodo Baggins. Frodo sits up, looking at Elrond with awe. 
 (V.O.) You have found your way to the last homely house east of the sea. The elves of Imladris have dwelt within this valley for three thousand years through few of my kin now remain. Frodo looks out from his balcony. 
 Frodo!   Frodo! 
 Bilbo! 
 Hello, Frodo, my lad! 
 Bilbo! 
 FRODO (CONT'D) (reading) "There and back again: A Hobbit's tale" by Bilbo Baggins. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) This is wonderful. 
 I meant to go back...wander the paths of Mirkwood, visit Laketown, see the Lonely Mountain again...but age, it seems, has finally caught up with me. 
 (quietly) I miss the Shire...I spent all my childhood pretending I was off somewhere else...off with you, on one of your adventures... (Looks at Bilbo) But my own adventure, turned out to be quite different...I'm not like you, Bilbo. 
 My dear boy... 
 No, what have I forgotten? Pull back to reveal Frodo, hands in his pocket, watching Sam. 
 Packed already? 
 (slightly embarrassed) No harm in being prepared. Frodo strolls to the edge of the Balcony. 
 I thought you wanted to see the Elves, Sam? 
 I do... 
 More than anything. 
 I did. It's just...we did what Gandalf wanted, didn't we? We got the Ring this far, to Rivendell...and I thought... seeing as how you're on the mend, we'd be off soon. Off home. 
 You're right, Sam. Frodo looks at Sam... 
 FRODO (CONT'D) ...we did what we set out to do. Frodo opens his hand, the Ring sits in his Palm. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) The ring will be safe in Rivendell. I am ready to go home. 
 His strength returns. 
 That wound will never fully heal. He will carry it the rest of his life. 
 And yet to have come so far still bearing the Ring...the hobbit has shown extraordinary resilience to its evil. 
 It is a burden he should never have to had to bear. We can ask no more of Frodo. 
 Gandalf, the enemy is moving. Sauron's forces are massing in the east. His eye is fixed on Rivendell. And Saruman, you tell me, has betrayed us. Our list of allies grows thin. 
 His treachery runs deeper than you know. By foul craft, Saruman has crossed Orc with Goblin Men...he is breeding an army in the caverns of Isengard. An army that can move in Sunlight and cover great distance at speed. Saruman is coming for the Ring. 
 This evil cannot be concealed by the power of the Elves...We do not have the strength to fight both Mordor and Isengard...Gandalf...the ring cannot stay here. 
 ELROND (V.O.) (CONT'D) This peril belongs to all Middle earth. They must decide how to end it. Not just for themselves but for those who come after. Elrond approaches Gandalf. 
 ELROND (CONT'D) The time of the Elves is over. My people are leaving these shores. Who will you look to when we have gone? The dwarves? They hide in their mountains seeking riches. They care nothing for the troubles of others. 
 It is in Men that we must place our hope. 
 Men? Men are weak.      The race of Men is failing. The blood     of Numenor is all but spent, its pride and    dignity forgotten. It is because of men    the Ring survives. 
 ELROND (V.O.) (CONT'D) I was there, Gandalf...I was there three thousand years ago when Isildur took the ring. 
 I was there the day the strength of Men failed. 
 Isildur...hurry...follow me! IMAGES: leads Isildur into the steaming volcano. 
 ELROND (V.O.) (CONT'D) I let Isildur into the heart of Mount Doom, where the ring was forged: the one place it could be destroyed. 
 MT. DOOM. 
 Cast it into the fire...destroy it! 
 No. 
 Isildur!! 
 It should have ended that day, but evil was allowed to endure. Isildur kept the Ring...and the line of Kings was broken. There's no strength left in the world of Men. They're scattered, divided, leaderless. 
 There is one who could unite them, one who could re claim the thrown of Gondor. 
 He turned from that path a long time ago. He has chosen exile. 
 (quiet awe) The shards of Narsil...the blade that cut the Ring from Sauron's hand. Boromir picks up the sword and gently touches the Blade. Close on: a small bloom of blood appears on Boromir's finger... 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) Still sharp. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) But no more than a broken heirloom. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) replaces the Broken blade, but it clatters to the floor. Boromir walks away, leaving Strider sitting alone. 
 Why do you fear the past? You are Isildur's heir...not Isildur himself. You are not bound to his fate. 
 The same blood flows in my veins...the same weakness... 
 Your time will come. You will face the same evil...and you will defeat it. (Elvish: w/subtitles) A si i-duath u-orthor, Aragorn...u or le a u or nin. The shadow does not hold sway yet...not over you and not over me. 
 (Elvish: with subtitles) Renech I lu I erui govannem?   Do you remember when we first met? 
 (Elvish: with subtitles) Nauthannim I ned ol reniannen.   I thought I had strayed into a dream. 
 (Elvish: with subtitles) Gwenin in enniath...u-arnech in naeth I se celich. Long years have passed...you did not have the care you carry now. 
 ARWEN (CONT'D) (Elvish: with subtitles) Renech I Beth I pennen? Do you remember what I told you? Arwen reaches for Strider's hand... 
 (quietly) You said you'd bind yourself to me, forsaking the immortal life of your people. 
 (whisper) And to that I hold. I would rather share one lifetime with you than face all the ages of this world alone. Strider looks down. In his hand lies the Evenstar. 
 ARWEN (CONT'D) I choose a mortal live. 
 You cannot give me this. 
 It is mine to give to whom I will, like my heart. 
 Strangers from distant lands ... friends of old. You have been summoned here to answer the threat of Mordor. Middle-earth stands upon the brink of destruction. None can escape it. You will unite...or you will fall. Each race is bound to this fate...this one doom... 
 ELROND (CONT'D) Bring forth the ring, Frodo. 
 (shocked) So it is true! 
 (disbelief) Sauron's Ring! The ring of power! 
 (grim) The doom of man! 
 It is a gift...a gift to the foes of Mordor! Why not use this Ring? Long has my father, the Steward of Gondor, held the forces of Mordor at bay...by the blood of our people are your lands kept safe. Give Gondor the weapon of the enemy...let us use it against him! 
 You cannot wield it. None of us can. The one ring answers to Sauron alone...it has no other master. Boromir turns and looks at Strider, coolly. 
 And what would a ranger know of this matter? 
 This is no mere Ranger. He is Aragorn, son of Arathorn. You owe him your allegiance. 
 (quiet disbelief) Aragorn? This is Isildur's heir? 
 And heir to the throne of Gondor. 
 (Elvish: with subtitles) Havo dad, Legolas...Sit down, Legolas.. 
 Gondor needs no king. 
 Aragorn is right...we cannot use it. 
 You have only one choice..the ring must be destroyed. 
 Then...what are we waiting for? 
 The ring cannot be destroyed, Gimli, son of Gloin, by any craft that we 
 ELROND (CONT'D) here possess. The ring was made in the fires of Mount Doom...only there can it be unmade. It must be taken deep into Mordor, and cast back into the fiery chasm from whence it came. One of you must do this. 
 One does not simply walk into Mordor. Its black gates are guarded by more than just Orcs. There is evil there that does not sleep and the Great Eye is ever watchful. It is a barren wasteland, riddled with fire and ash and dust...the very air you breathe is a poisonous fume. Not with ten thousand men could you do this. It is folly. 
 Have you heard nothing Lord Elrond has said? The ring must be destroyed. 
 And I suppose you think you're the one to do it? 
 And if we fail, what then? What happens when Sauron takes back what is his? 
 I will be dead before I see the Ring in the hands of an Elf! A STORM OF ARGUMENT erupts around the room. CLOSE ON: FRODO...sound disappears as he watches in slow 
 GIMLI (CONT'D) (shouting) Never trust an Elf! 
 Do you not understand? While we    bicker among ourselves, Sauron's power   grows! No one will escape it. You will   all be destroyed, your homes burnt and   your families put to the sword! 
 I will take it...I will take it...I will take the Ring to Mordor. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) (quietly) Though...I do not know the way. Gandalf rises to his feet. 
 I will help you bear this burden, Frodo Baggins, as long as it is yours to bear. 
 If, by my life or death, I can protect you, I will. (kneels before Frodo) ...you have my sword. Aragorn steps forward...followed by Legolas and Gimli. 
 And you have my bow. 
 And my axe. 
 You carry the fate of us all, little one. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) If this is indeed the will of the Council, then Gondor will see it done. 
 (unseen) Here! 
 SAM (CONT'D) Mr. Frodo's not gong anywhere without me. 
 No, Indeed...it is hardly possible to separate you...even when he is summoned to a secret council and you are not. 
 Oi! We're coming too! You'll have to send us home tied up in a sack to stop us. 
 Anyway...you need people of intelligence on this sort of mission...quest...thing... 
 Well, that rules you out, Pip. 
 (thoughtfully) Nine companions ... so be it. (announcing) You shall be the "Fellowship of the ring" 
 Great.   Where are we going? 
 My old sword "Sting"...here, take it! 
 It's so light! 
 Yes, yes, made by the Elves, you know. The blade glows blue when Orcs are close...and it's times like that, my lad, when you have to be extra careful. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) Here's a pretty thing. Mithril, as light as a feather, and as hard as dragon scales. Let me see you put it on. Come on. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) (entranced) Oh! My old Ring... Frodo frowns as Bilbo moves toward him. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) I should very much like to hold it again, one last time. Bilbo reaches forward, eyes locked on the ring. 
 BILBO (CONT'D) Oh! 
 BILBO (CONT'D) (sad) I'm sorry, that I brought this upon you, my boy...I'm sorry that you must carry this burden. I'm sorry for everything. 
: 
: 
 (V.O.) We must hold to his course west of the misty Mountains for forty days. If our luck holds, the Gap of Rohan will still be open to us. From there, our road turns east, to Mordor. 
 Get away from the blade, Pippin...on your toes...good, very good...I want you to react, not think. 
 Should not be too hard... 
 Move your feet. 
 Quite good, Pippin. 
 Thanks. 
 If anyone were to ask for my opinion, which I note they have not, I would say we are taking the long way round. Gandalf, we can pass through the Mines of Moria. My cousin, Balin, would give us a royal welcome. Gandalf clearly thinks that is a bad idea. 
 No, Gimli. I would not take the road through Moria unless I had no other choice. 
 What is that? 
 Nothing...it's just a wisp of a cloud. 
 (worried) It's moving fast...against the wind. 
 Crebain from Dunland! 
 (urgently) Hide! 
 Merry..Pippin...Sam...take cover! WIDE ON: THE FELLOWSHIP scramble under what little cover 
 (worried) Spies of Saruman.    The passage South is being watched. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) We must take the pass of Caradhras! 
: 
 Boromir? 
 It is a strange fate that we should suffer so much fear and doubt over so small a thing...such a little thing. 
 (quietly) Boromir...give the ring to Frodo.'S HAND moves to his sword hilt. 
 (lightly) As you wish. I care not. 
 So, Gandalf...you try to lead them over Caradhras. And if that fails...where then will you go? THE FELLOWSHIP struggles through the snow. 
 SARUMAN (V.O.) (CONT'D) If the mountain defeats you, will you risk a more dangerous road? 
 (urgent) There is a fell voice in the air. 
 It's Saruman. 
 (urgently) He's trying to bring down the mountain. Gandalf! We must turn back! 
 No! 
 (YELLING) Losto Caradhras, sedho, hodo, nuitho I ruith. Sleep Caradhras, be still, lie still, hold your wrath. 
 (urgent) We must get off the mountain! Make for the gap of Rohan and take the West road to my city. 
 The Gap of Rohan takes us too close to Isengard. 
 We cannot pass over the mountain. Let us go under it. Let us go through the mines of Moria. Gandalf has a concerned look on his face. 
 (V.O.) Moria. You fear to go into those mines, don't you? The dwarves delved too greedily and too deep. 
 SARUMAN (V.O.) (CONT'D) You know what they awoke in, the darkness of Khazad-dum. Shadow and flame. 
 Let the ringbearer decide. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Frodo? 
 We will go through the mines. Gandalf slowly nods. 
 So be it. 
 (in awe) The walls of Moria! 
 Itidin...it mirrors only starlight and moonlight. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) It reads, "The door of Durin, Lord of Moria. Speak, friend, and enter." 
 What do you suppose that means? 
 (confident) It's quite simple. If you are a friend, speak the password and the doors will open. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) (incanting) Annon edhellen, edro hi ammen! 
... 
 (whispering) Mines are no place for a Pony, even one so brave as Bill. 
 Bye, Bill. 
 Go on, Bill, go on..don't worry, Sam...he knows his way home. Aragorn slaps Bill on the rump...Bill goes trotting off. CLOSE ON: Sam watching Bill disappear into the darkness. 
 Goodbye, Bill. 
 (ominous) Do not disturb the water. 
 (quietly) It's a riddle... 
 FRODO (CONT'D) (explaining) Speak, friend, and enter.   What's the Elvish for friend? 
 Oh...mellon. 
 So, master elf, you will enjoy the fabled hospitality of the dwarves; roaring fires, malt beer, red meat off the bone. This, my friend, is the home of my cousin, Balin...and they call this a Mine... (snorting) A mine! 
 (grimly) This is no mine...it's a tomb! 
 (in horror) Oh...no...no..no... ! Legolas pulls a crude arrow out of a skeleton. 
 Goblins! 
 We make for the Gap of Rohan.    We should never have come here. 
 Into the mines! 
 Legolas! 
 (ominous) We now have but one choice...we must face the long dark of Moria. Be on your guard...there are older and fouler things than the Orcs in the deep places of the world. 
 Quietly, now. It's a four day journey to the other side. Let us hope that our presence will go unnoticed. 
 I have no memory of this place. 
 Are we lost? 
 No. I don't think we are.   Shhhh, Gandalf's thinking. 
 Merry! 
 What? 
 I'm hungry. 
 (whispers) There's something down there. 
 (quietly) It's Gollum. 
 Gollum! 
 He's been following us for three days. 
 (disbelieving) He escaped the dungeons of Barad- dur? 
 Escaped...or was set loose. And now the Ring has drawn him here...he will never be rid of his need for it. He hates and loves the ring, as he hates and loves himself. Smeagol's life is a sad story. Gandalf catches Frodo's look of surprise. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Yes...Smeagol he was once called...Before the ring came to him, before it drove him mad. 
 (grim) It's a pity Bilbo didn't kill him when he had the chance. 
 Pity? It was pity that stayed Bilbo's hand. Many that live deserve death, and some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them, Frodo? Frodo frowns. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Do not be too eager to deal out death in judgment...even the very wise cannot see all ends. My heart tells me that Gollum has some part to play yet, for good or ill, before this is over. The pity of Bilbo may rule the fate of many. 
 I wish the ring had never come to me...I wish none of this had happened. 
 So do all who live to see such times, but that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us. There is a note of finality in Gandalf's voice. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) There are other forces at work in this world, Frodo, besides the will of evil. Bilbo was meant to find the ring. In which case, you also were meant to have it...and that is an encouraging thought, (sudden brightness) Ah! That it's that way! Gandalf points at the right hand tunnel...the Fellowship scramble to their feet. 
 (relieved) He's remembered! 
 No, but the air doesn't smell so foul down there. If in doubt, Meriadoc, always follow your nose! (laughs) Ye s... 
 Let me risk a little more light. Gandalf taps his staff...for a brief moment a light 
 Behold! The great realm and Dwarf city of Dwarrowdelf! Frodo gasps at the brief sight of a vast roof, far above 
 Well, there's an eye opener and no mistake! 
 Gimli!! 
 No...no...oh, no! 
 "Here lies Balin, son of Fudin, Lord of Moria." He is dead, then. It's as I had feared. 
 (urgent whisper to Argorn) We must move on, we cannot linger. 
 (reading) "They have taken the Bridge and the second hall: we have barred the gates...but cannot hold them for long...the ground shakes...drums in the deep...we cannot get out. A shadow moves in the dark. Will no- one save us? They are coming." 
 (angry) Fool of a Took! Throw yourself in next time and rid us of your stupidity! 
 (worried) Mr. Frodo! 
 Orcs ! 
 (to the hobbits) Get back! Stay close to Gandalf. 
 They have a cave troll! 
 (yelling) Let them come! There is one Dwarf yet in Moria who still draws breath! 
 I think I'm getting the hang of this. 
 Aragorn!   Aragorn! 
 (shocked yell) Frodo!! 
 He's alive! 
 I'm alright. I'm not hurt. 
 You should be dead. That spear would've skewered a wild boar! 
 I think there's more to this hobbit than meets the eye. 
 Mithril! You are full of surprises, Master Baggins. 
 To the bridge of Khazad-dum! 
 This way! 
 What is this new devilry? 
 (quietly) A Balrog..a demon of the ancient world! This foe is beyond any of you! (urgent yell) Run! Quickly! 
 Lead them on, Aragorn.   The bridge is near. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Do as I say; swords are no more use here. 
 Nobody tosses a dwarf! The BALROG smashes through the wall and spreads its vast wings. (MORE) 
 GIMLI (CONT'D) It swoops down past the Fellowship, disappearing into a flaming pit! 
 (yelling) Over the bridge! Fly! 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) You cannot pass! 
 (alarmed yell) Gandalf! 
 (yelling) I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the flame of Anor. The dark fire will not avail you, flame of Udun. 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) Go back to the shadow! The BALROG slashes at Gandalf with its Sword of 
 GANDALF (CONT'D) (booming) You shall not pass!! The Balrog places one foot onto the bridge. Aragorn and Boromir race forward, swords drawn. 
! 
 (screaming) Gandalf! 
 (fierce) Fly, you fools! 
 No! 
 Gandalf! 
 (urgent) Legolas, get them up! 
 Give them a moment...for pity's sake! 
 By nightfall these hills will be swarming with Orcs! We must reach the woods of Lothlorien. Come, Boromir, Legolas, Gimli, get them up. On your feet, Sam. (MORE) 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) Boromir glances towards Frodo, then back at Aragorn. Frodo is walking away, as if in a daze. 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) Frodo?   Frodo! 
 Stay close, young hobbits..they say a Sorceress lives in these woods. An elf- witch of terrible power. All who look upon her fall under her spell... 
 (V.O.) Frodo... 
 And are never seen again! 
 (V.O.) ...your coming to us is as the footsteps of doom. You bring great evil here, Ringbearer. 
 Mr. Frodo? 
 Well, here's one dwarf she won't ensnare so easily. I have the eyes of a hawk and the ears of a fox! 
 The dwarf breathes so loud we could have shot him in the dark. 
 (Elvish: with subtitles) Haldir of Lorien, we come here for your help. We need your protection. 
 Aragorn! These woods are perilous. We should go back. 
 You have entered the realm of the Lady of the Wood. You cannot go back. 
 HALDIR (CONT'D) Come, she is waiting. 
 Eight there are, yet nine there were set out from Rivendell. Tell me, where is Gandalf, for I much desire to speak with him. 
 (V.O.) (softly aloud) ...he has fallen into shadow. Galadriel looks to Aragorn. 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) The Quest stands upon the edge of a knife. Stray but a little and it will fail, to the ruin of all...Yet hope remains while the company is true. 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) Do not let your hearts be troubled. Go now and rest for you are weary with sorrow and much toil. Galadriel's eyes turn to Frodo...her voice fades. 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) Tonight you will sleep in peace. (whispered v/o) Welcome, Frodo of the Shire... CLOSE ON: FRODO looks at GALADRIEL. SUDDEN INSERT: GALADRIEL as she is on the other 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) ...one who has seen the eye. 
 (sadly) A lament for Gandalf... 
 What do they say about him? 
 I have not the heart to tell you. For me, the grief is still too near. Boromir is sitting alone...Aragorn approaches him. 
 Take some rest..these borders are well protected. 
 I will find no rest here. I heard her voice inside my head...she spoke of my father and the fall of Gondor, and she said to me: "Even now, there 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) is hope left. But I cannot see it...it is long since we had any hope. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) My father is a noble man, but his rule is failing and our..our people lose faith. He looks to me to make things right...and I would do it, I would see the glory of Gondor restored. Have you ever seen it, Aragorn? The White Tower of Ecthelion, glimmering like a spike of pearl and silver, its banners caught high in the morning breeze...have you ever been called home by the clear ringing of silver trumpets? 
 I have seen the white city..long ago. 
 One day our paths will lead us there, and the tower guards shall take up the call "the Lords of Gondor have returned." 
 Will you look into the mirror? Frodo looks with apprehension at the silver basin. 
 (warily) What will I see? 
 Even the wisest cannot tell for the mirror shows many things...things that were ..things that are...and some things that have not yet come to pass. 
 (joyous) Gandalf! 
 I know what it is you saw...for it is also in my mind. It is the future, Frodo. It is what will come to pass if you should fail. 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) The fellowship is breaking. It has already begun. He will try to take the ring. You know of whom I speak. One by one, it will destroy them all. 
 (V.O.) If you ask it of me, I will give you the One Ring. 
 You offer it to me freely...I do not deny that my heart has greatly desired this. 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) In place of the Dark Lord, you would have a Queen, not dark, but beautiful and terrible as the Dawn. Treacherous as the Sea! Stronger than the foundations of the earth...all shall love me and despair! Frodo takes a step away from Galadriel... 
 GALADRIEL (CONT'D) (gently) I pass the test. (laughs) I will diminish and go into the west and remain Galadriel. Frodo's confidence drains away. 
 I cannot do this alone... 
 You are the ring-bearer, Frodo...to bear a ring of power is to be alone. This task was appointed to you, and if you do not find a way, no one will. 
 Then I know what I must do. It's just...I'm afraid to do it. Galadriel kneels down to Frodo's height, staring at him intently. 
 Even the smallest person can change the course of the future. 
 (V.O.) (smiles) They were Elves once. Taken by the Dark Powers ... tortured and mutilated...a ruined and terrible form of life. And now...perfected. My fighting Uruk-Hai. Whom do you serve? 
 (gutteral rasp) Saruman. 
 Hunt them down. Do not stop until they are found. You do not know pain. You do not know fear. You will taste man-flesh. Saruman turns to Lurtz. 
 SARUMAN (CONT'D) (coldly) One of the Halflings carries something of great value...bring him to me...alive and unspoiled...kill the others. 
 Farewell, Frodo Baggins. I give you the light of Earendil, our most beloved star. 
 GALADRIEL (V.O.) (CONT'D) May it be a light for you in dark places, when all other lights go out. 
 (quietly) Frodo. 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) The Argonath... 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) (deeply moved) Long have I desired to look upon the kings of old...my kin. 
 We cross the lake at nightfall, hide the boats and continue on foot..we approach Mordor from the North. 
 (gloomy) Oh, yes, just a simple matter of finding our way through Emyn Muil, an impassable labyrinth of razor sharp rocks. And after that gets even better...a festering, stinking marshland, far as the eye can see. 
 That is our Road...I suggest you take some rest and recover your strength, Master Dwarf. 
 (indignant) Recover my... 
 We should leave now. 
 No. Orcs patrol the Eastern shore. We must wait for cover of darkness. 
 It is not the Eastern shore that worries me. 
 LEGOLAS (CONT'D) A shadow and a threat has been growing in my mind. Something draws near, I can feel it. 
 Where's Frodo? 
 (quietly) None of us should wander alone; you least of all. So much depends on you...Frodo? 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) I know why you seek solitude. You suffer, I see it day by day. Are you sure you do not suffer needlessly? 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) Let me help you. There are other ways, Frodo..other paths that we might take. 
 I know what you would say, and it would seem like wisdom but for the warning of my heart. 
 Warning?   Against what? 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) We are all afraid, Frodo. But to let that fear drive us to destroy what hope we have...don't you see that is madness? 
 There is no other way. 
 I ask only for the strength to defend my people. (angrily drops the wood he has collected) If you would but lend me the ring... 
 No. . . 
 Why do you recoil?   I am no thief. 
 (wary) You are not yourself. 
 What chance do you think you have? They will find you, they will take the ring and you will beg for death before the end. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) You fool! It is not yours save by unhappy chance...it might have been mine. It should be mine. Give it to me! Give me the ring. 
 Boromir spins wildly around, yelling into thin air! 
 I see your mind...you will take the ring to Sauron. You will betray us! You go to your death and the death of us all. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) Curse you! Curse you and your Halflings! Boromir stumbles and falls. His body shakes as if in the Throes of a fit...slowly he comes to. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) (Disoriented) Frodo! Frodo! What have I done. Please, Frodo... 
 (O.S.) I'm sorry, Frodo...Frodo... 
. 
 (V.O.) 
 Frodo? 
 (numb) It has taken Boromir. ARAGORN moves towards Frodo... 
 (urgent) Where is the ring? 
 Stay away! 
 Frodo...I swore to protect you. 
 Can you protect me from yourself? 
 FRODO (CONT'D) Would you destroy it? 
 (kneeling to Frodo) I would have gone with you to the end... into the very fires of Mordor. 
 I know...Look after the others, especially Sam...he will not understand. 
 (urgent) Go, Frodo! 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) (yells) Run! Run!! 
 Mr. Frodo! 
. 
 Find the Halflings ... find the halflings! 
 (O.S.) (urgent whisper) Frodo! 
 MERRY (CONT'D) Hide here, quick! 
 Come on... 
 PIPPIN (CONT'D) What's he doing? 
 (softly) He's leaving. 
 No! 
 Pippin! 
 The horn of Gondor! 
 Boromir! 
 Run!   Run! 
 MERRY & PIPPIN Aaaaagh!      Boromir! Boromir! 
 (painful gasp) They took the little ones... (MORE) 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) Aragorn quickly tries to staunch the flow of Blood from Boromir's shoulder. 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) (panicked) Frodo...where is Frodo? 
 I let Frodo go. 
 Then you did what I could not.   I tried to take the ring from him. 
 The ring is beyond our reach now. 
 Forgive me, I did not see..I have failed you all. 
 No, Boromir. You fought bravely. You have kept your honor. Aragorn tries to bind Boromir's wound. 
 Leave it! It is over...the world of Men will fall and all will come to darkness and my city to ruin..Aragorn.. 
 I do not know what strength is in my blood, but I swear to you... I will not let the White City fall, nor your people fail... 
 Our people...our people... 
 BOROMIR (CONT'D) I would have followed you, my brother...my captain, my King. Aragorn lays Boromir down. He is dead. 
 Be at peace, son of Gondor. Aragorn bends and Kisses Boromir's forehead. (MORE) 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) Legolas and Gimli appear behind him...Aragorn stands. 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) They will look for his coming from the white tower...but he will not return. 
 Mr. Frodo! 
 (V.O.) I wish the ring had never come to me..I wish none of this had happened... 
 (V.O.) So do all who lie to see such times...but that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us. 
 (anguished) Not alone, Frodo. Mr. Frodo! Frodo, in the boat, paddling steadfastly away from the 
 No, Sam. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) Go back,Sam. I'm going to Mordor alone. 
 Of course you are...and I'm coming with you! 
 You can't swim. 
 FRODO (CONT'D) (frightened) Sam! 
 I made a promise, Mr. Frodo...a promise. (fierce passion) "Don't you leave him, Samwise Gamgee." (sobs) And I don't mean to...I don't mean to. 
 (crying) Oh, Sam! 
 FRODO (CONT'D) Come on then.. 
 If we are quick, we will catch Frodo and Sam before nightfall. 
 LEGOLAS (CONT'D) You mean not to follow them... 
 Frodo's fate is no longer in our hands. 
 Then it has all been in vain...the fellowship has failed. 
 Not if we hold true to each other. We will not abandon Merry and Pippin to torment and death, not while we have strength left. 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) Leave all that can be spared behind... CLOSE ON: ARAGORN..a steely light in his eye. 
 ARAGORN (CONT'D) (grimly) We travel light. Let's hunt some Orc. 
 Yes!   Ha! 
 Mordor!   I hope the others find a safer road. 
 (simply) Strider'll look after them. 
 I don't suppose we'll ever see them again. 
 We may yet, Mr. Frodo.   We may. 
 Sam? 
 FRODO (CONT'D) 
