 "FOUR ROOMS" 
 
 VOICE-OVER There used to be a staff of fifty in this place. I'm the only one left from those days. It all comes down to one sap: the night-shift bellhop, that's me. What the hell is a bellhop? You know where the name comes from? (silence) Of course not... It's so simple it's stupid. They ring a bell and you hop. You hop to front and center. No heroes in this line, kid. Just men doing a job. No questions asked, none answered. I try to keep it simple, kid, not too personal... 
 Sam! Hey, Sam, wait a minute! 
 I just want to say good-bye. 
 Uhhh, Betty. The concierge. Your boss. 
 Yeah, sure. 
 I just want you to know, from the owner and all the staff, your fifty years of service have been an inspiration to us all. You're a legend in your own time, and the Mon Signor will never be the -- 
 Yeah. Oh, hi, Teddy. Ready to start the night shift? 
 Well, let me buy you a drink. 
 You're not an alcoholic, are you; one drink won't kill you. 
 After fifty years, Sam retires, and you're taking over the night shift. 
 You're filling some mighty big shoes. 
 Sam was a legend in the hotel business. 
 A bellhop's bellhop. 
 He ran the night desk for fifty years, all by himself. 
 No desk clerk. No night man. No help. Just fuckin' Sam, and his wits. 
 And you're gonna do the same. 
 Tonight. 
 Yes, tonight. 
 Yes, you can. 
 Oh night shift -- smight shift. 
 I know, but I can't. 
 I'm having a New Year's Eve party. 
 Actually, I'm not having it. My roommate is. And there's this guy. German guy. He's gonna be there. And so am I. 
 Oh, sure ya can. 
 Sam ran this place by himself for fifty years. 
 Look, Teddy, calm down -- 
 Ted, the night's cake. It's easy. The day's when it's busy. During the night there's nothing to do. 
 Which'll make it less busy than normal. Ever worked on Christmas? Unless you sell turkeys, business is dead. You just got butterflies, that's all. 
 Okay, let's calm down a minute. Slow it down, cool it off. Let's just talk. 
 -- Ted? I thought we were calming down? I thought we were cooling off? No hostility. Say good-bye to hostility. We're just talking. 
 Ted, in a nutshell, all you have to do is hold the fort. It's New Year's Eve. Most of the guests are going out. You'll just be giving them a little nod as they come staggering in at three... four... five... in the morning. Nobody's having any parties, a few get-togethers, but no parties. You got about three people checking in tonight, that's it. The only variable is Chester Rush in the penthouse. 
 Yeah, him and his entourage checked in last night. They're in the penthouse. The only reason I refer to it as a variable is that he's a movie star. Ya never know about movie stars. I'm tellin' ya, Ted, it's cake. 
 (continuing) And look, if you have any problems, call me at the party. 
 Great -- 
 Fifty bucks! 
 One, Horst is not a Nazi. Two, that's not a fair price. You're taking advantage of the situation. Twenty bucks. Now, twenty bucks is a fair price. 
 Okay, but don't be a pussy. You don't bother me unless it's an emergency. In fact, for fifty bucks, you better not call me unless the fuckin' building's burning down. 
 Get ready to take the desk. 
 321 
 "STRANGE BREW" 
 Pleeze be careful -- my God. You have no idea... 
 I'm usually a good tipper, but this one -- this cab driver -- he had green all around him. I don't like that in a man. 
 Something like that. 
 I see purple... in your face, and... 
 ...you're okay. 
 Athena Z. 
 I will only need to stay till sunrise. 
 With gold. 
 Well -- the other bag -- I need it. 
 (dryly) The White Cliffs of Dover. 
 The others will be coming soon. Send them, pleeze. 
 I been in dis' place many New Year's. So... you send the others to me, huh. Go now. 
 On this night, oh great goddess Diana, we restore your virgin flesh and bring you back to real life. 
 Soon -- I take you to the pond for a cleansing. Well, it's a swimming pool, but it will be under the setting sun, okay? 
 I... we... have a reservation. 
 Kiva! 
 Wait up, gawd! I had to get supplies for this boring ass night. 
 (to Ted) We have a reservation in the Honeymoon Suite. 
 What'd I tell you about smoking? 
 You smoke. 
 That's right -- I smoke, and I'm addicted to it, and I don't want the same thing to happen to you. 
 (in game-show host voice) "Hello -- welcome to this week's edition of the Hypocrite of the Year Award --" 
 Kiva! That's enough -- 
 You're not my mother! 
 Yes I am. 
 Then why're we sleeping together? 
 Well... I didn't mean it... literally. I... I happen to be the only one who... cares about you -- 
 Please -- take us to our room! 
 Flea powder. One of the others is bringing her cat. 
 You're gonna have to wait in the other room. 
 Why? 
 Because I said so. 
 I'll watch TV. 
 You can't watch TV because the noise will interfere with our ritual. 
 Okay... Mommy. 
 Soon -- our goddess will come. I will go get her negligee. 
 What are you doing! Have you no respect -- who -- who is dis girl? 
 Kiva. My friend. Kiva, turn off the TV! I can't leave her at home -- she's on probation and I gotta keep an eye on her. 
 Well, Elspeth, your friend cannot stay here during the ritual. She may be one of your kind, but she is not one of us. 
 She stays!! Or I go -- along with my offering! 
 TURN OF THE FUCKING TV, MAN! 
 (in a seductive pout) Make me... 
 Let's not forget -- I am the High Fucking Priestess. Deal with dis girl! 
 (eyes lifted to heaven, wearily) Tell me -- did we have these problems in Salem? I don't think so... 
 Kiva... you know what I love about you? 
 Your sweet side. 
 And what do I get if I'm sweet? 
 You get whatever you want. And you know what else I love about you? 
 (seduced now) What? 
 Your nose. 
 And I saw you checking her out. 
 (talking to her cat in baby talk) Oh you little stinker... oh you sweet little muffin. Yes... Mama loves the baby. 
 Well, this is just darlin'! Just darlin' Hi-dee, girls... 
 Toodle-loo. 
 Well -- I see Elspeth has herself a new lil' fool -- what the hell is she doin' here on our night of annual ritual? 
 (wearily) I have sanctioned her presence, as long as she behaves. Come on -- there is more work to be done to welcome our great Diana. 
 I WANT ROOM SERVICE!! 
 Why do I always attract girls who are looking for a babysitter? 
 Well now, honey, maybe Juvenile Hall ain't the best place to find serious relationship material. 
 I'm looking for the room for making love. 
 Oh I know the way. I just wanted you to know that I knew where I was going and that you needn't bother yourself with me. The others are here -- great! 
 (in deep empathy) Ohhh... I know it all seems very strange but you're coping with us much better than the bellboys of past New Year's. 
 Oh yes -- we've been coming here every New Year... for a long time. Thanks for your patience. 
 I travel very light. 
 Oh... yes... I'm late. 
 Oh... no, that's all right. I can carry them by myself. 
 Well gosh -- thank you! 
 Tell me, how long have the others been here? 
 You are very late, Eva. 
 I'm sorry, Athena. I was attending a birth and the placenta was late in coming. 
 Oh, wait, lemme give you a little more than that... 
 Which birth is more important to you, that of a mortal or that of a goddess? 
 All life is precious... but I do apologize for being late, Elspeth. 
 Back home, they jist yank on the umbilical cord, do a Karate chop on the mama's belly, and them things come right out. 
 They do that here, too, Jezebel, in the hospitals, but it causes hemorrhages. I fed the mother a bowl of comfrey tea and it brought the afterbirth down perfectly. The couple are going to use it for fertilizer to plant a lovely tree for their baby. 
 Oh wow -- if they were really back- to-nature, they'd eat it, like other mammals do. 
 In some Native American cultures, they dry the umbilical cord, grind it to a fine powder, and put it in a leather pouch that the baby wears to ward off evil. But burying the placenta is also a very sound ecological practice -- 'cause of the oxygen it carries. 
 (cheerfully to the others) Yes -- because you see when the placenta detaches from the uterine wall... 
 Wait. We do need a few things. 
 We need fresh rosemary from the kitchen. Mostly what we need is from the kitchen. Hey, are you listening? 
 And a little bit of sea salt or Kosher salt if you don't got no sea salt. A bottle of spring water -- Italian please, not French shit. 
 And some french fries! 
 Kiva, shut up. 
 (irritated) And some ginger, two of the eyes of a trout fish, and a piece of raw meat, liver if you have it. 
 (whining) I want fries -- you dumb jerks with your stupid fucking ritual! 
 Shut up, you little shit. 
 Don't talk to her that way! 
 Get to work, man. 
 Kiva... 
 What? 
 You have to go in the next room now. 
 Oh, wow, like I'm bummed out that I can't watch. (whining at Elspeth) I'm bored! 
 UP! 
 Don't put me in there by myself. I'll miss you way too much. 
 Kiva, don't do this to me. 
 Please... if you just lemme... I'll play dress-up with you, the way you like it... you know what I mean... remember...? 
 We can pretend and I'll do it exactly... the way you want it... with the egg whites and the kilt. 
 You mean... like last week? 
 We'll talk about this later, Kiva. 
 (angrily) No! 
 Aw, really now -- child abuse? 
 You stay outta this! 
 I demand this stop now, Elspeth! 
 I'm running away from you! 
 Fine. Go ahead. And I'll call your parole officer and she'll find you and send you back to Eastlake! 
 Now that the fucking melodrama is over, can we start the goddamn ritual -- pleeze? 
 We are communing here on New Year's Eve to bring to life the great goddess Diana, who was turned to stone in this very room forty years ago today. 
 Diana, great beautiful one, we make these offerings to you, that we may undo the wicked spell which deprived you of the seed of your lover, your virginal blood, of your very life. We now form the symbolic rock with our bodies. 
 On this night, in this hour, we Call upon the Ancient Power O Goddess bride, I offer thee Milk from a mother's sweet titty! 
 To reverse the evil which has been done I make this offering to the Divine One A whore not, an innocent was, For whom I seized a virgin's blood. 
 Goddess of Light, Goddess of Lust, To undo this awful spell is a real must. To bring you life and get you high I offer the sweat of five men's thighs. 
 Diana, oh great one, we live without sun Until this wicked curse is undone. In hope that you live, and to us appear, I have collected a year's worth of tears. 
 Great Goddess Diana, fail you I will, I was to bring fresh sperm from my Bill. I had him erect, and his semen would follow But alas I was hot, so hot that I swallowed. 
 You stupid little witch! You swallowed the sperm! Aye-yi--yi! 
 It just shows what an amazing lack of control you have over yourself, Eva! 
 Honey, why didn't you just use your hands? Didn't your mama teach you not to put them things in your mouth? 
 I understand though... 
 There is no time to cry over swallowed sperms. You're gonna have to get some, baby. You have one hour to prove what kind of witch you really are. 
 (calling out) What do you want?! 
 Mr. Bellboy, come right in! 
 (handing Ted 50 bucks) Okay, mister, here's your fifty-dollar tip, only, you have to do one more thing... make our little Eva smile. Can you? We'll leave you alone. (to Eva, firmly) And don't use your mouth! 
 If she doesn't get his goop in ten minutes, I'm going to take him myself. 
 Ha! That'll be a first for you. 
 Oh shit -- Kiva! 
 And just where do you think you're going? 
 Well, gawd -- I need a candy bar or something -- you haven't fed me all day. I'm getting all shaky. My blood sugar's really low. 
 Elspeth -- honestly now -- some babysitter you're turnin' out ta be! 
 Enough, girls. I will collect fresh earth. Jezebel, I want you to gather damp moss. Raven, you bring me a birch branch. 
 Oh look, they don't care if I smile or not! All they want is... 
 You won't understand, believe me. 
 Well... okay. The five of us -- Elspeth, Jezebel, Athena, Raven and me -- are a coven. 
 Yes. 
 (getting calmer) And you see, our coven has spent forty years trying to perfect a ritual to undo a wicked curse put on our goddess Diana. 
 Oh... ha ha... I mean the witches before us tried and failed. But Athena, our High Priestess, discovered a great potion to reverse the evil spell which turned our beautiful goddess into an old rock. 
 She was a beautiful virgin. An entertainer by trade, but a great sorceress by design. It was here in this very room, on her wedding night, a jealous rival placed the curse on Diana. 
 Yes... and her young husband turned into a pink fish! They found him swimming in the pool in circles. While our dear goddess: a stone in her honeymoon bed. 
 This was Diana. 
 Oh, but she was! She had lovers, but she saved that for marriage. Which is the example I've tried to follow: to do everything but that till I marry... 
 Well, it doesn't matter now... and she won't be resurrected tonight 'cause I failed her. I let my whole coven down! 
 Only, not now -- we were each supposed to bring something -- a life fluid. 
 Only... I swallowed it... 
 And now, you're my last chance! 
 That's not flea powder, that's sacred dust ground from the horns of Albino goats. 
 Well, see, what I really want to do is be a midwife. I've attended four births already! I can prevent vaginal tears and everything. 
 I joined the coven to attain greater understanding of my feminine power so I could become a truly great midwife! 
 Do you really think so? 
 Who's Betty -- your girlfriend? 
 Oh good! 
 My phone number in Topanga. Call me? 
 What's that used for? 
 It's a birch branch, symbolizing eternal life. You can also use the bark for a tea which assists in astral travel. 
 Hey -- I wanna be a witch! 
 I'm a woman now! 
 But where is his "stuff"? 
 (pointing to the Jacuzzi) We did it right there, in the big cauldron! 
 Ooohhh honey, you're gonna be sore tomorra! Didn't your mama teach you that water strips a girl's lubrication? 
 Sex in water is great in the movies, not in real life... but you will learn. As we all did. 
 Yeah, when she can't walk... (to Elspeth) I guess you wouldn't have those kinds of problems -- without penetration. 
 No. And virtually no cervical cancer, either. 
 Okay, girls, enough Sex Education 101, let's get going with our ritual, goddammit. 
 Goddess Diana, I offer you The jism of one I wooed for you That you may live and know such bliss Of getting laid by a guy like this. 
 
 I don't understand what went wrong. 
 I say Eva pulled one over on us. 
 What? 
 Honey -- Eva was wearing the face of someone just fucked good... and the best actress in this world, or any other, can't fake a thing like that! 
 Exactly -- if she was fucked so good, how could she save his come? 
 It could be done... 
 Girls, knock it off. (she looks up from the book) Maybe... maybe it needed to be the sperm of a virgin male. 
 (dreamily) He was no virgin! 
 Let's leave her here, with the sword, until dawn. I will come back for her before checkout time. I just... feel too sad to carry her away before the sun comes up to warm her. 
 (cuddling her cat) I can't believe we have to carry our own bags out! My mama would have a hissy fit! 
 (flirtatiously) I'll carry your bags. 
 (firmly) You're carrying my bags! 
 Next year, we try again -- with virgin sperm. 
 
 What room am I in? 
 What room are we in? 
 How should I know? I just got here. 
 (into phone) You know, don't you have one of those light things? 
 (to Real Theodore) Call my assistant and ask her what floor we're on. 
 Who's your assistant? 
 The girl you party with every night. 
 (to himself) Who? 
 It's room 404, I think. 
 I could have sworn we were on the fifth floor. 
 Right. 404. 
 (into phone) Right. 404. 
 (to Real Theodore) What do we need? 
 Ice. 
 Ice? 
 Ice. 
 (into phone) Ice. 
 Yeah. Ice. 
 404 "THE WRONG MAN" 
 MAN'S VOICE No one here but us chickens. 
 MAN'S VOICE What do you expect, Theodore, a fuckin' floor show? 
 MAN'S VOICE I don't know. Do you? 
 We don't have time to play charades here, asshole! Untie me quick. 
 Look, whether you like it or not, you're in the middle of a situation here you can't just wish your way out of. 
 Everyone starts out strangers, Ted, it's where we end up that counts. Hurry up. 
 Life is hard, Ted. You ever stopped to consider how many times you change your underwear in a lifetime? 
 I don't mean literally, you ignoramus. 
 Forget it, listen to me. There's a gun in my suitcase behind the bed, it's loaded... 
 Fine. Get the gun and I'll shoot "anybody." 
 Get a fucking grip on yourself. First off, who says he's my husband? And second, we are a long way from fair here, fair is back in jolly old England eatin' crumpets and sipping on tea. 
 There are two sides to a plate, still you only eat off of one. Now GET THE 
! 
 I'm a werewolf, Ted! Get the gun! 
 Come on, Ted. Come over here just for a minute. You can do it. Come on, Ted. You look like a good guy. 
 That's it, Teddy. You look so much more attractive when you're self- assured. 
 (she panics) Quick, he's coming back. Put the gag back in, and remember the gun! 
 Where's the fucking nitro? 
 You took long enough. Untie me, for Christ's sake, you fucking upset him and he's dying. 
 You'd make a great cop, Theodore. 
 You bastard! 
 If the simple fact that I didn't want your bloated, dead body lying out on the floor is love, then no wonder we find ourselves as we are at this very fucking moment. 
 You heard shit, monkey boy. Easy for you to say after you fuck another man's wife. You should at least have the guts to stand by your convictions. 
 When I think of all the times you were inside me promising me a better life, it makes me want to puke. 
 What didn't you do, stick man? Unfortunately, you don't have the balls to back up the actions of your huge cock. 
 Put it this way, God made up for what he did to Gumby with Ted here. 
 Show him your cock, Theodore. 
 It's hard to stop talking about something so huge. I could go on and on about his cock, bone, nob, bishop, wang, thang, hotrod. Hump mobile, Oscar, dong, dagger, banana, cucumber, salami. Sausage, kielbasa, schlong, dink, tool, Big Ben, Mister Happy, prick, disk, pecker, peter, pee-pee, wee-wee, weiner, pisser, pistol, joint, hose, horn, middle-leg, third- leg, meat, stick, joystick, dipstick. 
 (continuing) Junior, the little head, little guy, Rumple Foreskin, Tootsie Roll. Snake, one-eyed monster, one-eyed wonder, shaft, sword, meat whistle, skin flute, love muscle, Roto-Rooter, instrument, banger, rammer, ramrod, cherrypicker, log, pole. 
 (to Ted) You'd better go check to see if I killed anybody downstairs. 
 We're fine, Ted. 
 Another time, Ted. 
 Happy New Year, buddy. 
 I was just in room 404, what a party! You know where room 409 is at? 
 716 "THE MISBEHAVERS" 
 716 
 Bottle of Moet et Chandon. Fast. 
 Give me that... 
 There... see? You look cool with your hair up like this. Like me... 
 Not down and to the side, all stupid like your mom likes to comb it. 
 You've got your mother's hair. 
 I can't do anything with it. 
 There. Go. 
 (putting a plastic clip in Sarah's hair) There. Go. 
 (mocking) So, are we gonna have fun tonight? 
 I didn't think so. 
 Hey. 
 (shrugs) Let's just leave the kids here. 
 Here in the room? By themselves? 
 No... with the television. 
 You want to have fun tonight, don't you? 
 Yes. 
 They'll be fine. 
 Hey. 
 You guys are going to stay here and watch TV. 
 I want you to be in bed asleep before twelve. Your mother and I will be back later on. 
 Okay? 
 Don't misbehave. 
 Why did we have to get all dressed up if we weren't going with them? 
 716 
 What are you doing? 
 Escaping. Stinks in here, anyway. 
 (stern) What did I say? 
 Behave. 
 Yes, Papa. 
 No time for this. Leave it on ice. 
 But I want some now... 
 There'll be plenty for you and the party, baby, you can bomb yourself all you want at the party. 
 What a waste. 
 (to Ted) Hey. 
 You want five hundred bucks? 
 How about three? 
 Yeah. 
 My children are staying here tonight watching TV. I want you to check up on them every thirty minutes. 
 Make sure they're all right, make sure they're fed, make sure they go to bed. 
 I don't trust babysitters. My children are safer alone than with some fucked- up pedophile babysitter I don't know from the man in the fucking moon. 
 What about him? What makes you think you can trust him? 
 Tell me that's not a face you can trust. 
 One hundred... two hundred... three hundred... 
 I said three hundred. 
 You calling me a liar? 
 I don't do anything accidentally, jerk. I might've first said five hundred, but what I last said was three hundred, and what you say last is what counts. 
 You fuckin' with me, Pendejo? 
 You callin' my kids a pain in the ass? 
 No, you were right the first time. You win, tough guy, five hundred. 
 (disgusted) You kids are getting expensive. 
 (looking at name tag) What's your name? Ted? 
 (to the children) His name is Ted. If you need anything, dial 0 and ask for Ted. 
." 
 (deadly whisper) If something happens to my children, I wouldn't want to be you. 
 Make sure they're in bed before midnight. 
 No... 
 Don't misbehave. 
 716 
 That's not what he said. 
 He said to call if we need anything. 
 We paid you five hundred dollars. We'll call you if we need anything. You don't want to upset my dad. 
 Your feet stink. 
 They don't stink. 
 Check it out. T & A. 
 Change it. You're not supposed to watch this. 
 We're supposed to watch TV. 
 Not this kind of TV. Change it. 
 
 Ted? Hi. It's me, Sarah. You're our sitter for tonight. 
 I want you to turn off the Nudie station in our room. 
 No. (struggling with winter tights) Not turn it on, turn it off. It's already on. 
 Well, stop listening to the machine and listen to me. There's naked ladies dancing on my TV and I want 'em off. 
 716 
 Change the channel, now! 
 Man, you're the one with the stinky feet. 
 They don't stink. 
 Yeah, they do. 
 Here, smell for yourself. 
 Go ahead. 
 (holding up the bottle) Hey, get a bottle opener! 
 
 Don't shake it! (into phone) Ted? Hi. It's me. Sarah. 
 I thought I'd tell you that your cleaning ladies are doing a bum job. There's all kinds of leftover stuff around here. 
 Needles and things. We're not supposed to have needles here, are we? I mean, they don't come with the room, do they? Send someone up here to clean this place up right. 
 (to Juancho) I TOLD YOU NOT TO SHAKE IT! (to Ted) I gotta go. My brother just exploded the champagne all over the room. Oh, and bring us a couple of toothbrushes. There's a card in the bathroom that says you'll bring free toothbrushes if we ask for them. 
 I'm calling another room, give me three numbers. 
 4-0-9. 
 Hello? Hi. You don't know me, and I don't know you, but... do you have any needles? We've got needles here and I was wondering if they come with the room or not. Don't have any? Thanks. Just checking. 
: 
 716 
 (pointing out the rules) The center is the bull's eye, 100 points, this one's 10 points, this one's 20 points. 
 Hey, wait a minute. Let me get out of the way! 
 We're going to sleep now? 
 Those aren't milk and cookies. 
 These are old. 
 They're stale. 
 What about our pajamas? 
 What's that? 
 What happens when it's morning? 
 Did you ever open your eyes? 
 (in unison) We can't. 
 Are you watching TV? 
 Yep. If you wanna watch too, you have to go wash your face. 
 Be careful... 
 716 
 Ted! 
 (near tears) I don't know, but she's in my bed! 
 There's a dead body in my bed! 
 No, there's a woman's dead body inside the bed, in the mattress. 
 Yes! 
 (crying now) I washed it off... 
 (pissed, drunk) Yeah, didn't you ever think to do that? 
 (through cigarette) You never tried it, did you? Then you agree I'm smarter than you... 
 Get your ass up here and call the police, because there's a dead body in my bed and it smells like shit and it looks even worse, and if you don't help us, my dad is gonna lay you down right next to her, I swear to fucking God! 
 Go, sis. 
 
 716 
 
 
 716 
 Check under the mattress! 
 (crying) For the body, can't you smell it? 
 Don't call her that... 
 Stop calling her that!! 
!! 
 716 
 Did they misbehave? 
 
. 
 Happy New Year! 
 Party's over, she probably went home. 
 Oh, well, I haven't seen 'em in a while. 
 Yeah... yeah... yeah... I know 'em, I know Eddy. 
 Yeah... yeah... I know Betty too... Tall... 
 No, no, no, no, no, I know, I know. Japanese girl. 
 Yeah... yeah... yeah... I know her. 
 Who -- who should I say's calling? 
 Gotcha, Betty from work. 
 Hi, Ted, I'm Margaret. You sound down. Has this not been the happiest of New Year's? 
 Awww, how come? 
 An oven full of witches fucked you? Is that like at the circus when they stick all those clowns in an itty- bitty car? 
 Was she an old hag with a mole, with hair growing out of it? 
 Ted? 
 What's the problem? 
 Sounds to me like a pretty great way to start off the night. 
 -- Skipping over the witches. 
 He made you have psycho sex with his wife? 
 What kinda gun? 
 Like Dirty Harry's gun. 
 Did it have a real long barrel or a short barrel? 
 Well, for one thing it's the difference between a .44 Magnum and a Magnum .357. 
 You wanna skip over this part, too? 
 Hold on. (yelling to the room) Anybody live here named... (to Ted) What's her name again? 
 Betty! 
 Yeah, whatcha screamin' about? 
 You're Betty? 
 Yeah, I'm Betty, it's my fuckin' place, who the fuck are you? 
 I'm Margaret (hands her the phone) And this is Ted. 
 Ted, what's the problem? 
 (yawning, wiping sleep from her eyes) Sure. 
 (suddenly alert) Is that the penthouse? 
 That's the Chester Rush party, they want something. 
 (panicking) Now, Ted, wait a minute. I know you're freaked, I know you're stressed. You've had a real bad night -- 
 -- You say there's a dead body in a room? 
 No problem, this is a hotel, we've had dead bodies before, it's just the price of doing business. You said the hotel was on fire. Is it still on fire? 
 Good, sprinkler system worked like a charm. Now, you wanna leave, you've had enough. Perfectly understandable. I'll take care of everything else. The only thing I ask is that you take care of Chester Rush. Then you can leave. 
 Ted, he's a very important guest of this hotel. In fact, he is the most important guest at the hotel. The Mon Signor used to be a haven for movie stars. Through the thirties and forties, and the first half of the fifties, more movie stars -- if you break it down on a night-by-night basis -- stayed at the Mon Signor than any other hotel in Hollywood. Now, we had some hard time in the eighties, even though we were the official hotel of Cannon Pictures, but we're coming back strong in the nineties. And a movie star clientele is important to that comeback. If we can keep stars of his magnitude happy, we're on our way. So, Ted, just take care of him, then you can leave. 
 He probably just wants some champagne! You can do that, can't you? Please just take care of him, the entire staff of the Mon Signor is begging you! 
 You're a good man, Ted. Thanks. 
 Hi, Theodore. 
 Having a drink. 
 Are you kidding, he'll be asleep till Christmas. 
 (O.S.) Entrez, entrez. 
 (still sitting) Entrez, entrez, come in, come in. 
 -- Not a problem, my friend Mr. Bellboy. 
 (closing the door) His name's Theodore. 
 So, Ted the Bellboy, as I was saying -- would you care for some champagne? That's not what I was saying, but would you care for some champagne? 
 Ya sure? Cristal. It's the best. I never liked champagne before I had Cristal, now I love it. 
 -- As I was saying, Ted, don't worry about being late. For our purposes, promptness is far behind thoroughness. 
 Chin-chin. 
 Whadya say, Ted? 
 No, not thank you. Whadya say about the tasty beverage? 
 Fuckin' good, Ted. It's fuckin' good. Let's try it again, shall we? So, Ted, whadya think about the beverage. 
 You bet your sweet bippy, Ted. It's fuckin' Cristal, everything else is piss. 
 Bellboy! Bellboy! Bellboy! 
 (to Norman) Knock it off, you're making my friend Ted here uneasy. (to Ted) Pay no attention to Norman here, Ted, he's just fuckin' wit' ya, that's all. That's from Quadrophenia. Now me, myself, when I think of bellboys I think of -- "bellboy" isn't an insult, is it? Is there another name for what you do that I'm ignorant of? Bellman, bellperson -- 
 Good. I'm glad they haven't changed that. There's a friendliness to "bellboy." As I was saying, Ted, when Norman thinks of bellboys, he thinks of Quadrophenia. 
 You should, it's one of Jerry's better movies. He never says a word through the entire film. A completely silent performance. How many actors can pull that off? And he has to go to France to get respect. That says it all about America right there. The minute Jerry Lewis dies, every paper in this fuckin' country gonna write articles calling the man a genius. It's not right. It's not right and it's not fair. But why should that surprise anybody? When has America ever been fair? We might be right every once in a while, but we're very rarely fair. 
 You in a hurry, Ted? 
 Good, then stop playing "Beat the Clock." Now let me introduce you to everybody. 
 Our friend from downstairs you already seem to be acquainted with. 
 Oh, me and Theodore go way back. Don't we, Theodore? 
 Angela's like you, Ted, a newfound friend. 
 We met at the pool. 
 (to Ted) Have you ever seen Angela in a one- piece? 
 Well, it's somethin' to see. (arm around Ted) The Man sitting in the chair, with the bottle of Jim Bean in his hand and the sense of humor, is Norman. Norman, say hello to Ted. 
 What's up? 
 The sociable son of a bitch on the telephone is Leo. And the person on the other end of the phone is his lovely wife Ellen. (to Leo) Leo, say hello to Ted. 
 Hi, Ted, glad you could make it. (back to phone) What? (pause) What does punctuality have to do with love? 
 Which brings me to me, Chester Rush, Ted. Pleased to meetcha. 
 It's quite all right, Ted, nothing to feel sorry about. That's why God invented video. But you know, Ted, a lot of people did see it. 
 Who drank out of this bottle last? 
 Who drank out of this bottle -- not the other bottles -- this bottle last? 
 What's wrong, Chester? 
 It's fuckin' flat, Norman, that's what's wrong. The champagne -- the fuckin' Cristal's fuckin' flat. 
 I was saying, Ted, a lot of people did see it. And not just on video, either. Leo, what was the final take on domestic? 
 72.1 million. (worried tone) You okay, champ? 
 (struggling with bottle) I'm cool, so talk to your wife. 
 (to Ted) 72.1 million dollars. That's before video and before foreign, and before pay-TV and before free TV. We're talking fuckin' asses in fuckin' seats. (he pops the cork) Before all that other shit, The Wacky Detective made 72.1 million dollars. 
 And my new one, The Dog Catcher, it's projected to break a hundred. (he clinks Ted's glass with his) The Dog Catcher. 
 Now let's stroll over here and see what goodies you brought us. 
 One thing at a time, Ted. I'm not a frog and you're not a bunny, so let's not jump ahead. C'mon, Norman, you should be interested in this. 
 Damn Skippy! (pause) Tell it. 
 Good. 
 Why three nails? 
 That's how many Peter Lorre asked for. Continue, Ted. 
 That's definitely a roll of twine. Continue. 
 (to Norman) You into it? 
 (to Chester) I'm into it. 
 (to Ted) Go on. 
 That's for me. Continue. 
 A hatchet as sharp as the devil himself is what I asked for. 
 I'll be the judge. 
 Whadya think? 
 That's a sharp motherfucker. Bring all this bullshit over to the bar. 
 You heard him, Ted. 
 Bitch! 
 You still married? 
 Maybe, maybe not, but I don't give a flyin' fuck either way. I've had it with that Machiavellian bitch! I'm too drunk to drive home. I'm sorry about that, I'm real sorry about that. I got drunk on New Year's Eve, cut my fuckin' head off... (noticing Ted at the bar) What's going on here? 
 We now return you to The Man from Rio, already in progress. 
 (surprised) Noooo, you're gonna do it? 
 Looks like. 
 You guys ain't bullshittin', you're gonna really go for it? 
 After talkin' about it all night, they better. I wanna see a show. 
 When we do it, you'll have something to see. 
 You are one radical dude. 
 Not so fast, Ted. We ain't quite done yet. Why don't you take a seat at the bar, get comfortable, and have an open mind when we explain the festivities of the evening to you. 
 Well, it's your business, Ted. 'Cause we want you to take part. 
 Chester, your way of breaking the news to him gently is scarin' the shit outta him. 
 Look at the poor guy. Just spit it out. 
 First off, let me say that there's nothing homosexual about what we're going to ask you to do. There's nothing sexual at all about what we want. But I was thinkin' you might be thinkin' we want you to do some sex thing. Pee on us, suck us off, shit like that. Let me assure you nothing could be farther from what we want -- 
 Can I jump in here? 
 No, you can't jump in here, this is my story. 
 Theodore's been here fifteen minutes and you've talked about everything but. 
 Hey, if you don't like it, you can get the fuck out. 
 If it'll please the court, let me explain to Ted our intentions. 
 (yelling) I second the nomination! 
 (yelling) Move the nomination be closed! 
 (calmly) Leo, the floor is yours. 
 Thank you. (to Ted) Ted, did you ever watch the old "Alfred Hitchcock Show"? 
 Did you ever see the episode The Man from Rio, with Peter Lorre and Steve McQueen? 
 Oh, you'd remember it all right. In the show, Peter Lorre makes a bet that Steve McQueen can't light his cigarette lighter ten times in a row. Now if Steve McQueen can light his cigarette lighter ten times in a row, he wins Peter Lorre's new car. If he can't he loses his little finger. (pause) Norman and Chester just made the same bet. (pause) Norman's putting up his pinky against Chester's mint convertible, 1964 red convertible Chevy Corvelle that he can light his Zippo ten times in a row. 
 Well, that goes without saying, but that doesn't mean we don't know what we're doing. 
 I'll tell ya what I'm doin'. 
 I drive a motherfuckin' Honda my sister sold me. You hear what I'm sayin'? A little white motherfuckin' Honda Civic. (he holds up the magazine) You see this shit?! (reading the magazine) "Hollywood's hottest new star, next to America's hottest old car." (he hands Ted the magazine) Now you take a good look at that machine that this motherfucker over here is standing next to. That's a 1964 nigger-red, rag-top Chevy Corvelle. And I love that car more'n I love hips, lips, and fingertips. Cut to we sittin' here celebrating, gettin' high, drinkin' champagne -- 
 -- Cristal. When you're drinkin' anything else, you're drinking champagne. When you're drinkin' Cristal, you say you're drinkin' Cristal. 
 -- drinkin' Cristal. Watchin' TV. "Rockin' New Year's Eve." When all of a sudden we flip on Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre bein' fuckin' badass. And I look at this funny motherfucker over here, and I say, "I'd do that for the Chevelle." 
 And Chester replies... 
 "...Oh, really?" 
 I think that pretty much goes without sayin'. We'd probably chicken out. But when you're fucked-up, you don't lie. You tell the fuckin' truth. And the fuckin' truth is, my lucky Zippo's gonna win me Chester's car. 
 Thrill of the bet. I'm the one with something to lose here. 'Cause I can pretty near guarantee that I love my car more'n Norman loves his pinky. 
 Why not? Life don't get much more exciting than this. I mean if Norman was puttin' his dick on the choppin' block, I'd step in, 'cause, ya know in the morning, we'd really regret that. But his pinky? Who gives a fuck? I mean theoretically, he could lose that choppin' onions tomorrow. Life still goes on. 
 (to Ted) I don't care. 
 Which brings us to your part in this little wager. 
 Now, Ted, my old granddaddy used ta say: "The less a man makes declarative statements, the less he's apt to look foolish in retrospect." Now there're some inherent obstacles in this undertaking. First of all, I'm not some sick fuck like Peter Lorre on that show, travelin' the countryside collecting fingers. We're all buddies, here. Nobody wants Norman to lose his finger. We just wanna chop it off. So if fate doesn't smile on ol' Norman, we'll put his finger on ice and rush 'im to a hospital, where in all likelihood be able to sew it back on. 
 Eighty percent. 
 Our side. 
 So Norman's protected. His interests have been looked after. My interests, on the other hand, have not. I am as emotionally attached to my car as Norman is physically to his finger. I'm putting up a very expensive piece of machinery on this wager. Now, if I lose, I lose, I have no problem with that. I'm a big boy, I knew what I was doing. However, if I win, I wanna win. If Norman lights his lighter ten times in a row, he's gonna have no emotional problems about taking my car keys whatsoever. But if I win, it's not inconceivable that Leo or myself, at the last minute, might not be able to wield the ax. Which brings us full circle to you, Ted. Sober Ted. Clear-eyed Ted. We want you to be the diceman. 
 Helluva night, huh, Ted? 
 Ted, I got a hundred-dollar bill here with your name on it, whether you do what we ask or not, just to sit back down in the chair for one minute more. 
 Maybe you will and maybe you won't, but that has nothing to do with this hundred-dollar bill in my hand. You can tell us all to go fuck off and walk right out that door. But if you sit back down and wait sixty seconds before you do it, you'll be a hundred dollars richer. 
 Ted. Take the money. 
 Ted, you're gonna do whatever you want to do. We're just askin' you to indulge us for another minute more. And Chester's willin' to pay for it. 
 Well, I want you to have a bit more of an open mind than that, but, yeah, we'll either convince you or we won't. No hard feelings. Right, guys? 
 Okay, Leo, you be the timekeeper. Let us know when one minute begins and when it ends. 
 You got it. (he checks his watch) Gentlemen, start your engines. 
 Begin! 
 Okay, pay attention here, Ted, I ain't got much time. Now I'm gonna make two piles here on the bar. (he takes the hundred- dollar bill and lays it out on the bar) One pile, (pointing at the hundred-dollar bill) which is yours. And another pile, (Chester whips out a money roll fat enough to choke a horse to death) which could be yours. (he lays a matching hundred-dollar bill on the bar, starting a second pile) Now, what you have to be aware of is we're gonna do this bet, one way, (he lays another hundred on the end pile) or the other. (he lays another hundred on the pile) Whether it's you who holds the ax, (he lays another hundred on the pile) or the desk clerk downstairs, (he lays another hundred on the pile) or some bum we yank off the street. (he lays another hundred on the pile) 
 You can buy a lot of soup with that pile. 
 (to Norman) Shhhh, I'm the closer. (to the group) How much is on the bar already? I lost count. 
 Six hundred. 
 Six hundred. Ted, do you know how long it takes the average American to count to six hundred? 
 (laying another bill on the pile) One minute less than it takes to count to seven hundred. You know, Ted, a person's life is made up of a zillion little experiences. (he lays another bill on the pile) Some, which have no meaning, are insignificant and you forget them. And some that stick with you for the rest of your natural life -- (he lays another bill on the pile) -- barring Alzheimer's of course. Now, what we're proposing is so unusual, so outside the norm, that I think it would be a pretty good guess that this will be one of those experiences that sticks. So, since you're gonna be stuck remembering this moment for the rest of your life, you gotta decide what that memory will be. (He lays down the last bill on the pile) So, are you gonna remember for the next forty years, give or take a decade, how you refused a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work, or how you made a thousand dollars for one second's worth of work? 
 Time! 
 Well, Ted, what's it gonna be? 
 
 As long as you do your part, you can take the pile, walk out the door, and not say another word. 
 Here, here. 
 Perfect, perfect, perfect, perfect! This is great! This is a moment in time none of us will ever forget. 
 Norman, you ready? 
 Ready! 
 Ted, you ready? 
 Okeydoke. Norman, begin. 
 My finger, my fucking finger!! 
 You know, I'm gonna call it a night and go back to my room. It's been fun. 
 
 You okay, lady? 
 I said -- you looking for someone? 
 (disoriented) Uhhh... yes... my husband... I think. Have you seen him? 
 
