 
 A 
 A 12:43.   Brendan looks up from the watch. 
 (over phone) Brendan? 
 Emily? 
 (slow, deliberate) Status quo. 
 Uh huh. 
 What's going on, Em? 
 Two months. 
 Em, why don't we meet somewhere? 
 Why not? 
 Screwed up how? 
 Slow down now, what? 
 Brain. 
 Back of school. 
 Yeah, it's been awhile. You gave Emily my locker number? 
 What? 
 No. 
 It has been awhile.   Who's she been eating with? THE BRAIN (uncomfortable) I dunno. It's hard to keep track. 
 Is it? 
 Uh huh. 
 Yeah well. I'm not looking for a patch up. Em's life is her own. But she asked for my help. 
 I don't know. I don't even care, it's not my business. I just want to know she's ok, so I've got to find her. That's all this is. 
 Laura Dannon there with the Rabbit? 
 (softly) He's a sap. 
 By sight. 
 Kara. 
 You know her locker number? 
 Em's. 
 Thanks Brain. Keep your specs on, find me if she shows. 
 (through a mocking smile) Hello, Brendan. 
 Kara. 
 Come to see the show? Kisses the freshman's forehead, purring. 
 No, I didn't. (nudges the freshman with his toe) Lapdog, blow. 
 (to the lapdog) Stay. (to Brendan) Don't be mean. 
 I'm all friendly. (to the lapdog) Watch your head, kid - that thing bites. 
 I'm listening. 
 About Emily Kostich. 
 (to the dog) Get me my purse. (he goes) Hurry! 
 Still picking your teeth with freshmen? 
 You were a freshman once. 
 Way once, sister. You and Em were tight for a bit. Who's she eating with now? 
 Eating with? 
 Eating with. Lunch.           Who. 
 You're a cutie. 
 You gonna tell me? 
 Guess you're up from the underneath then. The whole Jerr thing blown over. Lucky strikes, you and your partner get bulled, you come up clean. But I guess you were always the brains of the outfit.1 
 Where's Emily? 
 Sometimes I wonder why I dumped you. 
 (standing to go) God. 
 I don't know where she's at, Brendan. 
 I know you do, so why don't you want me to find her? 
 Maybe I'm looking out for you. 
 (going) Well I appreciate that. 
 Brendan... you looking to get back into things? I could use you. 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (over phone) Hello? 
 Hello, ma'am, this is Tom, I'm a friend from school. Could I speak to... 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (over phone) Oh, hi Tom. Laura's here, hold on. 
 LAURA'S VOICE (over phone) Yes? 
 I'm calling for details. 
 LAURA'S VOICE For what? 
 Details about the party. 
 LAURA'S VOICE Who is this? 
 I don't think we've met. 
 LAURA'S VOICE Well then I don't think you're invited to my party. It's a rather exclusive gathering. 
 I can imagine. (she starts to speak, he cuts her off) You should really work on your invite management. That might be a personal 'room for improvement' area in your life. But discretion of your invite sending aside, I have procured a certain someone's invitation, and would like details. A beat of silence. 
 LAURA'S VOICE You think you're cute, whoever you are. 
 Wait'll you get a load of my felt fedora and spats. 
 LAURA'S VOICE Who are you? Or I'll hang up. 
 You don't know me - I'll save you some time. 
 LAURA'S VOICE I know everyone and I've got all the time in the world. 
 Folly of youth. Ask whose invitation I've got. 
 LAURA'S VOICE (slightly) What you said. 
 Emily Kostich. 
 LAURA'S VOICE 15 Bush street, up in Stockton Cove. Buzz 42 at the gate. Nine o'clock. But who- 
 If the coach wants to play me I'll play, but I can't put my best game in if I've got to worry about whether I'm going to be in there. Halftime last game, coach is pissed I ran it on a pass play, out on the field he says to me 'you gotta think about the team and you gotta' you know and 'if you run that ball again you're out', and I said to him you gotta let me play! I'm out there, let me play, and he's saying 'no you're out' and I kept saying 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!', just right in his face- 
 He was! 
 Just 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!' 'No you gotta' 'No, let me play! Let me play! Let me play!' 
 Tom! 
 (stumbles) He doesn't give me a play to make, what can I do, you know? 
 Leaving. 
 Oh yeah? 
 Uh huh. Unless your anecdote's got a 2nd act. 
 Why don't you leave? 
 (leaving) That's what I was doing. 
 (O.S.) Whiskey? 
 Jameson. 
 I like a man who knows what he's drinking. 
 That's a pretty sick thing to be attracted to. 
 Brad's not a good guy to get on the wrong side of. 
 Uh huh. 
 Fearless flyer. Quit your yappin and fix me one. 
 I'll never get through all this. 
 Uh huh. 
 I knew your old partner Jerr since grade school. Tough break. How long were you two joined up before your operation got the sting? 
 A few months. Could have helped himself out by turning me in, but he took the heat. He was a good guy. Solid. 
 Was he? 
 You knew him. 
 Yeah I did. So why are you here tonight? 
 I'm looking for Emily. 
 She wasn't invited. 
 She had an invitation. 
 Well like you said, I've got to work on that. Em's been AWOL for a good month, nobody's seen her. 
 I saw her yesterday. 
 Nearly nobody's seen her. So what did she tell you? 
 (winces) Score 0 for finesse. 
 Listen, you're scratching at the wrong door. I wasn't with Emily enough to know details of what she was in, I just got wind of the downfall, and I didn't get any details of that, except that it was bad. So now that we're showing some cards... 
 If you haven't got a finger in Em's troubles, why'd her name get me into your rather exclusive party? 
 Keep up with me now. I don't know, but it sounded like you did, and a body's got a right to be curious. Now I'm not so sure. 
 Well I'll put that body to bed. I don't know a damn thing about whatever troubles, and that works for me. I just want to find her. 
 Coffee and pie. 
 Coffee and pie oh my? 
 And you didn't hear it from me. 
 Sure. 
 You'll stay right here and wait -- I'll be five minutes. 
 Yes. 
 Where's Dode? 
 1 Dunno, bra. 
 Dode? 
 2 Uh uh. 
 Hey Brendan. Maybe you shouldn't be here. 
 Kara told me you know where Em's at. 
 Uh huh.   And why are you looking for Em? 
 She asked for my help. 
 Uh huh. Listen man, I've got plenty on my plate without dealing with some jilted ex. 
 It's not about that. 
 Whatever it's about, act smarter than you look and drop it. 
 Where is she? 
 She's with me, and right now that's the best place for her. Leave the low life to the low lifers and dangle. 
 You're on the bright side of dim, Dode, but if I thought you had this half- handled I'd be eating lunch. Where's she at? 
 Better get while it's good. 
 Back off. 
 Throw one at me if you want, hash head. I've got all five senses and I slept last night, that puts me six up on the lot of you. 
 Just easy- 
 (to Dode) Where's Em? 
 (deliberate) She's with me. She was tight when she called you, man. Came to and freaked. She told me to shake you if you came by. Said you'd only make things worse. 
 1 (O.S.) Put him down, man! 
 Deal with whatever this ain't about and drop it. 
 (to Brendan) Nothing more here, bra. 
 Tell Emily I want to see her. Tell her if she still wants my help or not that's her business, but I want to hear it straight from her. 
 She don't - 
 Today. She knows where I eat lunch. 
 And stay out, punk! 
 (angry) Who fed you that line, Em? 
 The Carrows rat? 
 So what am I? 
 You've got to come back to me, Em. 
 You're in a spot, I can get you out of it. Come back to me, and whatever heat follows you I'll deal with. 
 Tell me about the trouble, the brick and the pin - 
 (shakes his head) Mm. 
 (shrugs dismissively) Kara. It's their turf, I couldn't hear them without being seen, and that would only biff their play. Best to know it's there, let it ride and see what comes of it. (touches the paper) But anyway. 
 Yeah. 
 But Dode wouldn't know it? 
 Call anything up? 
 Yeah. 
 EMILY'S BODY 
 EMILY'S ARM 
 BRENDAN'S FACE 
 EMILY'S HAIR 
 BRENDAN'S EYES 
 (low whisper) Your little Em. 
 (thick, distant) I couldn't sleep. 
 Yeah. What, are you here for zero? 
 Bad break. 
 She's gone. 
 No, I can't. 
 Now. I don't know. I guess it's... I don't know. 
 No. 
 Yeah. I think I could. 
 Kara tried to rope me. She came right out and asked. She was scared. Tell me to walk from this, Brain. Tell me to drop it. 
 Yes I am. 
 No, bulls would gum it. They'd flash their dusty standards at the wide-eyes and probably find some yegg to pin, probably even the right one. But they'd trample the real tracks and scare the real players back into their holes, and if we're doing this I want the whole story. No cops, not for a bit. 
 I don't know. Your mom still have the cell? 
 Borrow it for a few days, get me the number. (stands to go) Wait for my word, and cover for me first period. I'm going to be a little late. 
 (O.S.) Yeah it was personal. Jerr spooked some decent gees and ran around some what was straight with him, but I'm nobody's bull runner. This wasn't a business sit. But yeah. I bulled him. Got in tight, partnered up and sent him over. 
 BRENDAN'S FACE 
 Keep it on vibrate. 
 Better stop meeting me in the open too. I'm going to start getting visible, and I need you on the underneath. I'll call. 
 I bet. Keep him off me - stonewall him, he won't bite, just keep him away from me. 
 Make Em's troubles mine. I'm going to throw a few words at you, tell me if they catch. Brick. 
 Or bad brick. 
 Tug. 
 Drink? 
 Poor Frisco. 
 Pin. 
 The Pin, yeah. 
 I've heard it. 
 Jake1 runner, right? 
 You think the Pin's just a tale to take whatever heat? 
 A show of hands. 
 (annoyed) Hey Brendan. Here for the show? 
 No. 
 Would you go then, honey, cause I've got this headache. 
 Try smoking like a chimney, I've heard that helps. 
 You don't know Dode's brand. 
 Oh I do now. 
 The story about what? 
 Alright. 
 The story about what? 
 I don't want to play games if you've got a headache. Get me if you want to spill it, but I can't guarantee safe passage after tonight. 
 I don't know what- At the stage door, not slowing. 
 Tell the Pin that Brad was my calling card, and I need words. 
 Brad Bramish? Through the door and into the theater. 
 (fast and low) Tail Kara through lunch. She's got rehearsal but she'll blow early. She goes home, drop her, else wait for my call. 
 That's all I'm saying, is put me in the game and I'll do what needs to be done, but they don't put me in, what needs doing don't get done and don't come crying to me, man. Get off my grill man, you didn't put me in, don't come to me if you didn't let me play. 
 They didn't! 
 Hey! What are you doing here? 
 Listening. 
 Uh huh. 
 Alright, you got me. I'm a scout for the Gophers. 
 (not amused) Oh yeah? 
 Of all things, yeah. Been watching your game for a month, but that story just now clenched it. You've got heart, kid. How soon can you move to Minneapolis? 
 (flat with anger) Yeah? 
 Cold winters, but they've got a great public transit system. 
 Yeah? 
 Yeah. 
 Oh yeah? 
 There's a thesaurus in the library. 'Yeah's under 'Y'. Go ahead, I'll wait. 
 Who invited you? 
 To the parking lot? Well gee I kind of invited myself. 
 I think you'd better leave then. 
 No, I'm having too good a time. 
 Just the same. 
 With you? 
 You know what's good for you you'll just beat it. Beating a small frye won't win me anything and it's not going to do you any good- 
 Hey, is there a fight? 
 Yeah. 
 Hey. 
 You're quite a pill. 
 Uh huh. 
 Where are you going? 
 Home. 
 Why did you take a powder the other night? 
 Same reason I'm taking one now. 
 Hold it. (he keeps walking) I don't get you. That's a chilly heel to be giving a girl who's where you want to know about. 
 I'll get where I'm going just fine. 
 I want to help you. 
 Go away. 
 I wouldn't have to lead you in by the hand- 
 I can't trust you. Brad was a sap, you weren't, you were with him and so you were playing him, so you're a player. With you behind me I'd have to tie one eye up watching both your hands, and I can't spare it. 
 You're not Brad. 
 No, I'm not. 
 Sorry. Kara went home though, didn't she? THE BRAIN Yeah, but she stopped at a payphone and made two calls that she didn't want on her phone bill. 
 Get the numbers? 
 S'alright. Are me and Brad front page news? 
 Yeah. 
 Brad's a sap. I downed him on his field and his crew didn't bite. So now I know he's a sap and anyone who acts like he isn't is profiting by it. That's not why I roughed him, though. 
 For kicks? 
 Economics. Brad's the school's biggest jake buyer, so if this Pin is behind all the selling, I just got his attention. Anyway, now's just shaking things out. Look, you know a kid around the burgh, lanky, short, shaved head, turns a black tang? 
 Keep him off. And keep your specs on - I need to find that kid. 
 You didn't know this boy? 
 No sir, never seen him. 
 And he just hit you? 
 Like I said, he asked for my lunch money first. Good thing I brown bagged it. 
 Alright Brendan. I've been looking to talk to you. 
 No. I gave you Jerr to see him eaten, not to see you fed. 
 Fine, and well put. 
 Accelerated English, Mrs. Kasprzyk. 
 Tough teacher? 
 Tough but fair. 
 Mm. Anyway then, we know you're clean, and you've, despite your motives, you've been an asset to us. I think you're a good kid. 
 Uh huh. 
 I want to run a couple names by you. 
 (angry) I was done here three months ago. I told you then I'd give you Jerr and that was that, I'm not your inside line and I'm not your boy. 
 That's not a very helpful- 
 (anger builds) You know what I'm in if the wrong yeg saw me pulled in here? 
 What are you in? 
 No. And no more of these informal chats - if you've got a discipline issue with me write me up or suspend me and I'll see you at the parent conference. 
 Hold it, I could - hold it - could write you up for talking back to a VP. For looking at me in a threatening way. I'd exercise a little more tact, Mr. Frye. You can't pull a play like that unless I need you for something. So do I? 
 Maybe. 
 So maybe you're gonna need me too. 
 Maybe. Alright, I need you off my back completely for a few weeks. There might be some heat soon. 
 (interested) If it's something I can't cover, I won't go to bat for you. 
 If I get caught like that it's curtains anyway - I couldn't have brass cutting me favors in public. I'm just saying now so you don't come kicking in my homeroom door once trouble starts. 
 Okay, here's what I can do. I won't pin you for anything you aren't caught at. I'll ride it a little while, as long as it doesn't get too rough. But if anything comes up with your fingerprints on it, I can't help you. Also, if I get to the end of whatever this is and it gets hot and you don't deliver, The Veep will need someone to hand over, police- wise. And I'll have you. There better be some meat at the end of this like you say, or at least a fall guy, or you're it. 
 Sure I am. Got one more favor to ask. 
 Get the hell off my campus, punk! Brendan glances around, and limps off. 
 I'm 9 of 10 that Kara's got him, but who knows where. I shook but she's not spilling. 
 And I know enough about Kara to let that worry me. Alright, keep your specs on for him. Any other news? 
 (considers this) She did, huh? 
 She's tapping Kara, and Kara knows you know me. 
 That's the spirit. Ask around for Dode, tail Kara again at lunch. I got knives in my eyes, I'm going home sick. I'll call you tonight. 
 I want to see the Pin. 
 (nods slightly) Yeah, I guess you do. 
 
 BRENDAN'S POV 
 Alright. 
 You the Pin? 
 Yeah. (beat of silence) So now I'm very very curious what you're going to say next. 
 Maybe I'll just sit and bleed at you. 
 Helled if you're gonna go breaking my best clients' noses and expect me to play sandbag. Anyway you've been sniffing me out before then, sniffing for me like a vampire bat for a horse 
 Call Ms. Dannon in from the hall first; she oughta hear this. 
 (amused) No dice, soldier. Would have been a neat trick, though. 
 (shrugs, then slowly) I was going to make up some bit of information or set up some phony deal, anything so you'd let me walk. Then I was going to go to the vice principal and spill him the street address of the biggest dope port in the burgh. 
 He knows zippo. 
 1250 Vista Blanca, the ink blotter at the desk in the den in the basement of the house with the tacky mailbox. 
 You gonna do what now?! 
 No good, soldier. 
 
 (OS) Tug, stop. 
 Where are my glasses? (Tugger grins) Hell with ya then. Which wall's the door in? 
 Sorry about this kid, but what the hell with what you said before. 
 I thought we had orange juice, Brendan, I'm sorry. How about Tang, or that's more like soda isn't it, or not soda but it hasn't got any juice in it, it can't be very fortifying. 
 Water's fine, ma'am, thanks. 
 Now just a moment, we have apple juice here, if you'd like that, or milk, though you've got that in your cornflakes, I don't know if drinking it as well might be too much. 
 Apple juice sounds terrific. 
 It's country style. 
 That's perfect. 
 I'll even give it to you in a country glass, how'd that be? Boys? 
 I'm fine, Mrs. M. 
 Thanks, mom. 
 Okay, well I'm going to go, um, do something in the other room now... 
 (to Brendan) So hows bout we take another snap at hearing your tale? 
 I don't know. It starts out same as before, and this floor ain't carpeted. 
 We're cooled off. 
 Yeah well, your muscle seemed plenty cool putting his fist in my head. I want him out. 
 Looky, soldier- 
 The ape blows or I clam. 
 (stands violently) So clam! What've you got I can't beat out of you back in the basement? 
 Give us a few minutes, Tug. 
 About a year ago I had a small time dealing partnership with Jerr Madison. Know him? 
 Till he took the fall for you. 
 Yeah well. I didn't ask him to, but he was a straight player. I got out clean - almost. Nothing on my official record, but the VPs play it like I owe them one. When I made it clear I wasn't playing their hound dog, well they didn't like it. They keep calling me in, badgering me. 
 Gee that's tough. 
 I don't like being told whose side I'm on. So now they think I'm on your trail, I'm in a nice spot to know their movements and feed them yours. 
 I gotcha. 
 You haven't got me yet. 
 What, price? 
 Considering the benefits my services could yield, I don't think that's unreasonable. 
 And what are your services exactly, just so I can be specific on the invoice? 
 (shrugs) Whatever serves your interests. 
 Fair enough. I'll have my boys check your tale, and seeing how it stretches we'll either rub or hire you. You'll know which by end of the day tomorrow. 
 I'll drive you back. INT.'S CONVERTIBLE MOVING - SUNSET 
 Just drop me at school. (they take a hard turn) How long was I out? 
 Half an hour. It took all of it for me to cool the Pin down. 
 (flatly, but sincerely) Thanks. 
 You trust me now? 
 Less than when I didn't trust you before. If you can tell me your angle in this, maybe I can. 
 Come here.1 
 So far. 
 A few months go by, and the next I hear the Pin's raging over a situation with some certain junk Em was partial to, and the downfall's coming on Em's head. 
 You think Em scraped the junk off the Pin? 
 I don't know, but whether she scraped or copped or just ran her tab around the world and into her own back, it must have been grand. I've never seen the Pin so hot. 
 This all helps but it's not what I asked. What's your angle in all this? 
 I don't know. I'm usually pretty sharp, but... maybe I see what you're doing for Emily, trying to help her. And I don't know anyone who would do that for me. 
 Now you are dangerous. 
 (sing song) Brendan Brendan Brendan! 
 Where's Dode flopped? (she makes a face) I know you two are cozed up, so you'll tell me or you won't. 
 Oooh, getting feisty. (giggles) Last time we talked you were giving ultimate-tims. 
 It worked. You went to Laura, didn't you? Told her my tale. 
 All part of your plan? 
 Turned out to be. 
 I feel so cheap and used. 
 Gol, I must seem a real cad. Sometimes I just hate myself. 
 Whatever happened to us, Brendan? 
 Where's Dode flopped? 
 We were a pair and a half for a few months, weren't we? Sometimes I miss having someone I can talk to. You ever miss having someone? I guess you must. 
 I need to hear Dode's tale about Emily. It's important. 
 (darkly) You better be sure you wanna know whatcha wanna know. 
 Uh huh. Laura's working with me now, and I'll have the Pin and Tug in my corner soon. The sooner I get the truth from Dode or the truth about Dode from you, the safer you'll both be. No? Pass it on to Dode anyway. Maybe he'll have the 
 You didn't, did you? 
 Now we wait for the Pin's answer. Unless his crew spotted VP Truman's social call this morning, it'll be yes. I'd give us 70/30. If we're in I get under his skin and see what's what. You stick to Kara, keep your specs peeled for Dode and stay away from Laura. 
 (too sharp) I'll let you know when she is. 
". He fishes the old note out and compares them - different handwriting. 
 You the Pin's? 
 
 
 Chuck Burns, big lug with hair like a sheepdog. 
 The Pin. If he's with the Pin everything's kablooie and I gotta blow the burgh. 
 Never mind. If I don't call by three call in the bulls. 
 Get in. 
 So? 
 So. Tangles. 
 Yeah. 
 We're doing a thing down at the Hole tonight. Know it? 
 South of T Street, yeah. 
 It's sort of a welcome you in thing. Eight o'clock. 
 BRENDAN'S WATCH 
 (on the phone) I know what you did. I saw what you did.1 
 So? 
 Anyone I tell, it would ruin you some way. And I'm going to tell someone. 
 Are you making an offer? 
 Maybe. Or maybe I'll just do you in. 
 Hire another hash head to blade me? 
 Don't need no blades, shamus. I just gotta squawk. 
 What do you want? 
 Just to see you sweat. 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah, I'm fine. Keep digging on the Burns lug, but the main thing is to find Dode. He set up whatever Emily walked into, it's getting more and more urgent we talk. 
 Trueman and the VP? 
 Asked for me? 
 That's not good. Alright, keep me posted. 
 So I'm going to start you on the dope circles, cleaning up the Turkish dues, pulling in the strags. 
 Small fries. 
 Yeah, well. Just to see how you handle. Anyway there isn't much else doing. I'm tailing out this big deal, but that's almost done. 
 Oh yeah? What was it? 
 Big time. Biggest I ever done, and there was a snag in it, but it's almost done now. 
 What was it? 
 It's over. 
 Almost, you said. 
 It's over enough. You're gonna make me curious, being so curious. 
 Yeah? 
 He's got my best interests, I know, he's loyal, he just gets hot. 
 Muscle you can't control's no good at that. 
 You're working for me, not Tug, that's all. 
 Alright. 
 Things can get, you know, it's tough sometimes. Twisted, complicated, watching all the, I don't know. Everyone's got their thing. (silence) You read Tolkien? 
 What? 
 Tolkien, the Hobbit books? 
 Yeah. 
 His descriptions of things are really good. 
 Oh yeah? 
 He makes you want to be there. 
 What? 
 Agh. 
 Probably. I got home late. 
 
? 
 Huh. Bad junk. Bad brick... could that form of Heroin be called 'Brick'? 
 I told you to stay clear of Laura. 
 (mutters) I gotta get voicemail. 
 This isn't good. 
 (on the phone) This is Trueman. 
 What the hell are you doing asking for me in class? 
 What the hell are you doing out of class? 
 What? 
 (very deliberate) The VP and I needed to ask you a few questions about Emily Kostich, who you might have heard is missing. It's a very serious thing. The police are involved. The VP and I knew you two were close, so the VP and I came to ask you questions, but you were truant. If you don't have a valid excuse- 
 I've been cut loose. I'm not safe here. We shouldn't have met in the open. Alright, lay low, but ask on the underneath for Dode. That's all that matters now, find Dode, but do it on the underneath, got it? 
 I'd like to have played it safe, but there's no time. The Pin's not letting 
 I don't know. Just find Dode. 
 What with the poking, genius?! Maybe you're poking for your bull friends! 
 Don't be a sap. I can't even face up at school, the VP's so hot for me. 
 Yeah well. Maybe you're looking to make good. 
 I'm looking to find this big game the Pin's played, not to gum it, but just so when its tail jams in my back I'll know who to bill for the embalming. 
 You oughta ask him what you wanna know. 
 I did. He didn't tell me. 
 Yeah, well. That's understandable. 
 There was ten of them. I don't know where he picked them, he didn't tell me. 
 (sympathetic) Huh. 
 So we get ten kils of brock, there aint enough marks in the whole burgh to eat that. So he unloads eight of em up way north, even up to the docks. I don't know who. 
 Didn't tell you. 
 Yeah. That was eight. So that's the tenth in there. We gotta break it into doses, sell em off round the high, maybe some by Shorecliffs. 
 What about the ninth brick? 
 Ah yeah. There were problems with that. 
 Yeah? 
 It, uh... 
 Frisco. 
 Yeah, poor Frisco. You heard about that. We'll track down the rat. Just takes time. 
 I heard something fell with Emily Kostich. 
 Emily who? 
 Kostich. 
 Don't know her. 
 Huh. 
 Has the Pin talked about her? 
 Not to me. 
 Yeah, he might know something. Ask him. Tell me what he says, cause if you heard something, you know, I wanna check. 
 Sure. The screen door swings open -- enter the Pin. If he's surprised he doesn't show it. 
 Pow wowing? 
 Just shooting the shat. 
 Yeah, just shooting it. 
 Good. 
 Emily? 
 Emily Kostich. Where she's at now. Says we'd want to know. Wants to meet. 
 (uncomfortable) Yeah? 
 So we'll meet him. Four o'clock. (to Brendan) Emily was Tug's girl for awhile. You know Emily, didn't you? 
 A while back. 
 You've heard she's missing? 
 Yeah, I heard that. 
 So maybe you want to come along too. 
 What has Emily got to do with you? 
 (looks at Tugger) Show, maybe we'll find out. 
 That's my ride. 
 Four o'clock. 
 (roughly) A payphone, anywhere. 
 What- 
 The mobile customer you have called is away from the phone- 
 
 (barks shakily) What time is it? 
 Lie down, Brendan- 
 What time- 
 You've got a fever, you've got to go to the hospital or- 
 What time is it? 
 Three forty. You've got to rest, you're feverish. 
 Get back in the car, I'm taking you home, you're sick, you need- 
 Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! 
 Get back in the car. 
 Do it! Will you do it? I need you to do this. I need you, here. Please. 
 What are you doing, Dode? 
 You gonna stop me? 
 What do you think you're doing, Dode? 
 I saw you. I saw what you did. 
 What'd you see? 
 I saw you. 
 What'd you see me? 
 You were with her, dead, and you took the body. 
 Yeah, I did. That's all you saw? What about before? 
 Before what? 
 Did you see who killed her before I got there? 
 (face ashen) You killed her. 
 I found the body, Dode. 
 You, I thought you didn't, but we figured out, I got the news on ya, cause you hid the body, why wouldn't- 
 Who's 'we'? 
 Shut up! You're always talking, always this and that smartso, you're gonna shut up now! 
 I didn't kill her, Dode. 
 You're not going to talk this! 
 Dode, I know you're thinking of Em, I know you tried to help her- 
 Shut up! You're gonna shut your 
 -so I'm telling you now you're in over your head, you don't want to put your hand in this- 
 Shut up! She's dead, you- 
 Why was she scared, Dode? She came to me, who was she scared of? I think I know why, I just gotta know who! 
 You're trying to confuse me. 
 Dode. 
 You couldn't stand it. Your little Em. She was gonna keep it, it was mine, and you couldn't stand that. 
 What was yours? 
 I had you pegged. 
 What was yours? 
 I loved her. And I woulda loved the kid. I'm gonna bury you. 
 What'd I miss? 
 Dode here says Emily Kostich is dead. 
 Oh yeah? 
 Yeah. He says he knows who did it. He says he knows where the body's at. (beat of silence) And he says he wants more money than I think the information's worth. 
 That so, Dode? (to the Pin) 
 Plenty. 
 Plenty, he says. 
 Uh huh. And he wants cash on the nail. He's a pot skulled reef worm with more hop in his head than blood. Why pay for dirt you can't believe? 
 You'll believe this. 
 (shrugs) Maybe you will. 
 You'll believe it, cause it's someone close to you. Real close. 
 Maybe it's hot, but it's Dode, you can't trust it. 
 Real close. 
 I'm getting my shoes wet for this. Let him milk you if you want. 
 (to Brendan) Stay. (to Dode) It's still too much. 
 No it's not. You won't complain when you hear it. 
 (murmurs) So maybe you should. 
 You had her against the wall with the brick - 
 I know my business. It's still too much. 
 (with growing confidence) It's not, cause that's not why she was killed, and it's real important to you, cause the person who killed her's real close, and cause he's got a lot to lose, and he knows if I don't bury him by spilling to you I spill to the bulls and bury him for real, and he's really really scared - she had a kid in her and he couldn't stand - 
 Tug, it's alright! 
 Tug, stop. 
 A 
 She sprung it on me, just. That's a hell of a thing to spring on a guy. I don't remember much. Laura talked me down after, said whatever, she knew her, said it wasn't true, but I still think sometimes. I think bout it being true. Bout it being mine. And maybe I did it cause I thought it was true. A hell of a thing. 
 What's the stats? 
 Everyone's just laying low. You're here with us, at my folks place. They're gone. The bulls got Dode fore the tide took his body. 
 Tide? 
 Yeah, strong tide, would've taken the body, like out to sea. It can do that. But the fuzz got there first. 
 War? 
 You're with us. 
 The hell I am. 
 So just lie low. Sleep some more. Laura, she said you should sleep. Tugger exits. Brendan runs his fingers through his hair, steps into his shoes and hobbles out of the room. 
 Hey. 
 Yeah. 
 I was there. 
 Where were you yesterday? I called. 
 Alright, listen- 
 Just listen. Is my name in the papers with the story? 
 Alright. Is it just Dode in the papers? THE BRAIN Yeah. What do you mean? 
 Listen, I'm going to be calling you tonight, probably late. Sleep with your phone on. Could you get a car if you needed to? 
 Be ready then. I'll call. 
 Brendan. Did you hear about Dode? 
 You scheming tramp. You set that poor kid up, you hid him, fed him your tale. You got info from Laura and held Dode like a card till you could play him. For money! 
 I don't know what you're talking about. 
 You'd bury me at the same time, but it was mostly for the money. You got Dode thinking Em had his kid, thinking I did it, and that was enough for him, but he stuck to the money cause you had your claws in him, cause he couldn't come away from the deal without it and make you happy. 
 Sit down, you're a mess. Russ, go get my shoes from the wardrobe locker, would you sweetie? 
 What are you doing? 
 Showing your ace. 
 Far enough. 
 Everyone's paying social calls. 
 Laura here? 
 So? 
 So what are the stats? 
 The stats are war, soon as the press heat dies. And if you're with him, you're with him. 
 Tug got hot. He panicked. 
 Tug's been after my digs from the get go. 
 No. He's been anxious cause he thought if you found out he killed Emily you'd turn him over. 
 He was right. 
 Yeah, well. 
 I told him to get the straight, no roughing. I wasn't even there. 
 Alright. So he's a hot head. So you don't want him on your side, at least let's have a pow wow fore we start digging trenches. Maybe we can all walk away amiable enemies. What would it take? 
 I don't know. We'd have to square everything between us. He owes me some money. 
 Alright, but we can talk. 
 Yeah, alright. 
 Four o'clock. 
 Tomorrow? 
 Tonight. Let's clear it all before it boils up again. 
 Four tonight. You'll be here? 
 Yeah. 
 LAURA (OS) Wait! She comes out of the house with her purse. 
 What's going to happen? 
 (weak) I don't know. 
 For a smart guy you aint too smart. I said lay low. 
 Tug. 
 She was at the Pin's. 
 Yeah, she's our go-between. 
 Uh huh. So here's the sit. You and the Pin are going to pow wow, four o'clock tonight, his place. Take all the muscle you want, you won't need it. He wants to talk straight, and you're going to work with him for whatever he needs, cause you don't want war. 
 Hell I don't. 
 The Pin's sitting on the brick profits - hitting him now would be post. Make peace and wait for your chance. 
 He's right, Tug. Smooth it out. 
 (between coughs) Besides, he's got you on the Dode thing. War'll mean you vs. him and every bull in the burgh. 
 Yeah, we'll talk. 
 (to Brendan) You going? 
 Yeah. 
 (croaks) Go away. 
 I'm sorry Brendan. 
 Don't go tonight. 
 I've got to make sure it plays out smooth. 
 It'll play however it plays without you there. 
 I've got to make sure. 
 Why? 
 Cause if there's war, I'm in it too. 
 Well let's just, I mean why not just run away. Go somewhere. I've got a car. (Brendan gives a wry look) I've got an aunt in New Orleans, she wouldn't care. (Brendan grins) Yeah, it's a stupid thing, but think about it, why not? What, school? C'mon. Family? 
 Alright, stop. 
 I wasn't serious, but we could go for awhile. Just until everything clears. 
 Tell your boys no knuckle business. 
 They're just ready. 
 Your folks left a car here? 
 Yeah. 
 Take it and Laura's. (Brendan tosses Tug the keys) I'll go first in yours. 
 The hell- 
 I'll take the scenic route to draw off any tailers. They'll think it's you, they might even radio back that you're alone. Get it? 
 Mr. Smarts. 
 Alright. Got a cigarette? 
 No. I don't smoke. 
 I've seen you smoke. 
 I don't smoke cigarettes. 
 Give me fifteen minutes, then go. 
 Alright, I warned you. Can you get the car? 
 Go to 2014 Clancy, off Pico west of La Grange. Park outside and wait. Laura's inside. She hasn't got a car, but if she blows on foot or gets a pick, tail her. Alright? (silence) Alright? 
 I'll call you when it gets light. (silence) Thanks, Brain. 
 Talk. 
 I want full assurance that any heat from Emily and Dode is gonna be on just you. I don't even want my name pulled in the shindig. Second, you owe me six Cs, no rush, but I want your shake that it'll come home in not too much time. 
 (to Tug) That's square. You did them after all. Lay low it'll blow over. Stick on this, one of you'll dish it to bury the other and you'll both get the rap. As to the six, did you borrow it? 
 Yeah. 
 Then you owe it. Shouldn't need a shake on that. 
 Alright to both. 
 Good. Let's seal it up and blow for keeps. 
 Third thing. The last brick. 
 It's yours. 
 That aint the point. I'm gonna start selling it. How do I know it aint bad? 
 Why would it be? 
 Why was the last one? Cause someone got greedy. Tug here's had the means to swipe half and cut it bad for a long time. Now we're splits my loss of trust's retroactive. 
 Did you, Tug? 
 (eyes hot on the Pin) No. 
 Alright, so let's shake and blow. 
 Not good enough. 
 What would be good enough? 
 I wanna see him dose it. Just to prove it. Then we're square. 
 Hell for that! I didn't touch your junk, that's it. 
 I wanna see it. 
 To hell! 
 Your not wanting to dose it's telling me something right here. 
 Yeah, it better be! It's telling that I'm out from your thumb, that I aint playing lapdog to no gothed up cripple no more! 
 I'll dose it. 
 What? 
 If it'll shut you two apes up I'll   take the dose, and if I don't die we're   all right as rain, and if I do die you   two have your war, so long as you keep   it off my grave. Deal? 
 Fine.   Tangles. 
 Johnny, go with him. They go. 
 (gasping) The brick, it's gone. The brick's gone. 
 Make peace, huh? Talk it out? Get your boys in my den soes you could snag it under my nose? 
 Alright! 
 No, that's not- 
 Was it bad, Tug? Snag it so I don't know, or sell it off to flat the war odds? 
 (shouts) Pin, think about it- 
 Alright, I did all that! Tug blows past Brendan like a train and slams the Pin into the ground with his fist. He punctuates his words with hard straight blows into the Pin's face. 
 Do him! 
 Hey. Where are you? 
 Did she blow last night? 
 You didn't give her a ride, did you? 
 But she came straight to school from Tug's? 
 She there now? 
 Alright. Tell her I wanna meet up on the basketball field in half an hour, then go home and get some sleep. 
 (softly) Did you see it all? With Tug and the Pin? 
 No. I took your advice and didn't go. 
 (confused) No? 
 What happened? 
 The papers say six dead, three around the house, one girl in the trunk of Tug's car, and the Pin and Tug. 
 Yeah? 
 Tug tried to shoot his way out when the police got there. They tied him to Dode, too. Same gun. And the girl. 
 Huh. 
 Well good thing you weren't there. 
 Yeah. 
 You think the girl was Emily? 
 Probably. 
 You loved her. 
 (distant) Yeah I did. 
 You did all this cause you loved her. And now it's finished. (tightens her embrace) I love you. 
 No. 
 What? 
 No, it's not finished. Tug pulled the trigger on Em and he got the fall, but the bulls coulda found that out without me. Laura pulls back more. 
 (drifting back further) What are you talking about? 
 It was you. What, you want the whole tale? You want me to tell it to you? 
 (bewildered) Tell it to me. 
 Alright, from the top. You had your fingers in Brad Bramish for appearances and to keep him buying from the Pin, who you were hooked with. Emily came to you and Brad, you saw her for what she was, an insecure little girl trying to get in. She goes on the backburner. Meanwhile maybe you're getting bored, maybe just greedy, so when the Pin scores big with the bricks you take your shot. You hook one, take half, and cut it back to size, but you cut it bad. Maybe accidentally, maybe to down the Pin's operation, doesn't matter. You put it back, but poor Frisco doses off it and lands in a coma. (voice strengthening) So now the Pin's fuming, maybe he's jealous of Brad, so he comes to Brad's crowd looking for blood, or at least a scape. You know trouble. There's going to be a war over this. And there's Emily. She trusts you. She wants in. It's duck soup. 
 (murmurs) No. 
 You frame her for the bad brick, then you cut her loose. You turn on your heel and bite her in the throat. Last week on the payphone, Pico and Alexander, she saw something she was scared of. Tug's car driving by, the Pin driving, but she wouldn't have seen the Pin. No, she was across the street, angel. She saw the passenger side. She saw you. She saw you and ran like she saw some devil. 
 Brendan, why are you- 
 And she took the hit. Dode hid her away, but the Pin was on to her, tracked her down, told her to meet him, that they would make good. Gave her a time, and a place. And sent Tug. Just to get the straight. But maybe you had talked Tug up, or maybe he just blew a fuse, but Em sprung it on him that she had her kid, and he did what anyone could count on Tug doing - he hit her. She took the hit for you. You let her take it. 
 Stop it! 
 That's the tale. 
 Stop it! 
 You're going to tell me it's not? 
 It's not! 
 Look at me. 
 You know me. I've only helped you. How can you - It isn't true! 
 I hope it isn't. I want you to have been on my side all along, not just trying to get me under your thumb like Brad and the Pin and Tug. 
 No- 
 But I think you knew that meeting was going to blow up. I think that was your final play. But I hope I'm wrong. I hope everything I wrote in the note I dropped at Gary Trueman's office this morning is wrong. About your and Brad's involvement in the Pin's runnings. I hope you didn't steal the brick last night. In your purse. 
 (breathes) I didn't. 
 That's good. That means you didn't let me walk into a slaughterhouse. You didn't lead Tug and the Pin and their crews to the slaughter. And when Trueman reads the note, takes my cue and searches your locker, he won't find a damn thing. 
 (murmurs) Brendan... don't... 
 (gently) It's done. 
 Done. Well. That's most of it. 9 out of 10. I told Em to tell Tug it was his. Told her it would soften him up. She said she wished she could keep it, but she didn't love the father. I was going to drive her down the next day, we'd found a doctor. Most wouldn't. She was starting to show. 3 months. You know whose kid that makes it, or have you known all along? 
 You get your straight? 
 S'alright. 
 (nods slightly) Fits. You did good, Brain. Go sleep. 
 She called me a dirty word. 
 
