 Lookee there! 
 Hey, will you stop wiggling?! 
 Don't yell at me...yell at the goddamn crazy bird! It tried to kill us! 
 (back to his manuscript) Oh yeah, that's your story. What's the bird got to say about it? 
 Something hit the roof. 
 So will the Chief...if we don't grab this guy Cameron. 
 Gettin' hot early. It's gonna be a scorcher. 
 That's really a beaut...really a beaut! 
 MAN (CONT'D) My wife still yells about this...but yours -- that's some eagle...like a billboard. 
 (eyes on police) Yeah, that's the grand old bird. (a half-smile) Right now I just wish the son-of-a- bitch could fly. 
 Hey Morton, you think your ass is connected to the machine? You wiggle, it's gonna make the ball go where you want? 
 Hey, you're lucky. Somebody left a free ball. 
 Uh huh. 
 You got 20,000! You're gonna win... 
 Win what? 
 A free game! 
 Terrific... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...that's just what I needed...one more chance to lose. 
 Cameron!   Halt! I'll shoot! 
 (panicked) No!...God, don't shoot! 
 Stand right there like a good old boy and do what I say. You wanna try and mess with me, you've had fair warning. I was a combat Marine in Korea. Okay? 
 Korea? No shit, so was my old man... (he suddenly stamps his foot and shrieks) Aaaaaaaargh! 
 Thanks.    I thought you didn't see me. 
 Damn it.    Screwed it up.   Lost my nerve. 
 BURT (CONT'D) Goddamn sinuses. Can't even see straight. 
 You want me to drive? 
 What the hell is that supposed to mean?! 
 (confused) No offense...thought you might... 
 Every one of you jerks is a goddamn hotshot expert! Thanks for the vote of confidence. If you think you can do any better, just come and try it! 
. 
 All right, people. Quiet! We're losing the sun! This is a take! You're welcome to watch, but please, no flashbulbs. They'll spoil the shot. 
 (shouting) Something went wrong. 
 Medic!   Get the medics! 41A   A WOMAN sags into a faint.      A small child in the crowd is crying and clutching Cameron's leg. 
 (O.S.) Cut!   I said CUT! That's a print. 
 Eli will hate it. He said he wanted the shot in one? Now watch, he'll do six hours of pick-ups. 
 Great...but why do they always use so much blood? It ruins the realism, don't you think? 
 (still shaken, quietly mutters) ...asshole... 
 Hey!    Hey you...! 46  'S POV 
 (deeply upset) All the divers found in the car was the goddamn camera. 
 (anguished) No Burt! All gone...caught in the current probably and...they're diving downstream and searching the riverbanks, but...don't say anything to the crew yet... 
 Yeah, Jesus Christ. 
 I don't know...call my mother and have her tell me it wasn't my fault... (desperately) ...What the hell could have happened? 
 Hey!   Hey, give me your hand! 
 Don't be afraid! You're gonna be okay. 
 My God! (choking on water) You're...I know you...that girl from TV...the actress. Nina... 
 (sputtering) ...Franklin. 
 My God!...Why the hell...? 
 (laughing and choking) ...Makeup test...it's for the film... 
 They gotta be crazy to cover that face. 
 (laughing) I'm only old at the end of the story. 
 No, don't do that.    Rescue me! 
 In three feet of water? 
 Oh come on, please. I always wanted someone to rescue me from something... 
 Nina! You damned near scared me to death! 
 Oh hell, it's all ruined now and I wanted you to see the makeup, Eli. Where were you?...I even got Raymond's autograph and he didn't know...You'd have been proud... 
 (to the A.D.) Get her into a tub, then bed...and I want to see her in makeup and costume again before dinner. 
 Hey! Thank you! That was really gallant...rescuing an old lady! 
 Wait a second!   I want to thank you, too! 
 ELI (CONT'D) 
 Yeah, I also smoke too much. 
 You and Burt on the bridge...how about telling me what happened? 
 I don't know. He must've gone crazy. He tried to run me down. 
 Oh?...Why would he do that? 
 (flustered) ...I didn't ask him why! All I know is he was comin' at me very fast. (quoting an axiom spouted by top sergeants in a thousand boot camps) 'You want to get home for Thanksgiving, you better figure the guy comin' at you is tryin' to kill you'...That's one thing I learned from the gooks. 
 Gooks?...That has a nostalgic ring... 
 ELI (CONT'D) You guys really used to call them gooks? I thought that was just Time Magazine. 
 That was 'Nam. What should I call 'em, WOPS? Nobody'd known what I was talkin' about. 
 All right, this time you've had it! Where is he?! 
 Chief, I'm glad you dropped by. Eli says you gotta do something about all these people on the beach. 
 (bellowing) Thirty minutes is what you've got to get your goddamn equipment off this beach and out of town!...You tell Eli Cross if your men are on the streets after four o'clock, I'll throw their ass in jail! 55   ANGLE ON ELI AND CAMERON 
 Speaking of jail...would you get upset if I asked how many cops were after you? 
 (suddenly grim) What are ya talkin' about? 
 (off-hand) Your I.D. bracelet...the look on your face...the way you ran from the bridge... (with exaggerated delicacy) I...don't suppose you want to tell me what you did. 
 No...I don't. 
 (brightly, with humor) ...Could I try categories? 
 ELI (CONT'D) (glancing O.S.) Ever done any stunt work? 
 What? 
 How'd you like to be a stunt man? You look like you're in pretty good shape, fast on your feet. You could do it. (getting to his feet) Besides, You're not gonna have much choice. 
 
 (softly, to Cameron) Now, don't get hasty. And, remember your ass, it's just like mine... maybe I can save them both. 
 (trailing after Jake) ...but we've gotta have three days to finish this picture... 
 (striding toward Eli) You said you'd be gone four days ago, before the season started. You lie, break promises... (he is now close enough and shouting at Eli) Cross, I've gone out of my way, but this time... 
 Jake, it's been a rotten morning. You're hot and tired. Let's go in, have us a drink and find out what's eating you. 
 (turning beet red) Don't treat me like these other morons! You know goddamn well what's eating me is that Duesenberg on the bottom of the river with the dead man in it! 
 JAKE (CONT'D) I mean, that is a goddamn public bridge and a public river! You go there without permits, without any precautions and get a man killed! 
 (gently) Jake... 
 No more bullshit explanations. Just go...before I figure out how to hang you with a manslaughter charge! 
 
 (wide-eyed) ...Now wait!...You're not blaming me for... 
 (wheeling on Cameron) Why not, Burt?! Because you're a fake?! Because you're just a goddamn daredevil with a head full of marbles?! 
 ELI (CONT'D) He grabs the bread, blows the shot, screws you up...screws me up. He's dumb, Jake, but thank God, he ain't dead yet. So do me a favor, put your handcuffs on this son-of-a- bitch and put him some place where he can't get hurt! 
 How did you get out of the car? 
 He didn't get out. Our divers got him out...and brought him back in the chopper. 
 
 You did that very well. 
 I didn't get a chance to say a word. I just listened. 
 There are only a few actors in the world who have mastered that art. Anyway, it was a good audition. You landed the part. 
 How? What about the crew? They going to look at me and say, 'Hi, Burt?' 
 Unless you prefer, 'Hi, Elizabeth.' Don't worry about my crew, they'll call you anything I want 'em to. Look, I'm not being callous. Burt is a fucking tragedy, but there's nothing in the world I can do about it...I've gotta have this location for three more days...and you need a place to hide. 
 
 By tomorrow the local cops'll know what I look like. I can't hang around. 
 (expansively) "Burt," stop worrying! Haven't you heard of "movie magic?" (pointing to the etched glass doors of the hotel) That door is "the looking glass," and inside...is Wonderland. You're gonna pose as a stunt man, who's posing as an actor, who's posing as a character in a movie...who's posing as an enemy soldier...In that big a crowd, who's gonna notice you? People like to believe in things and cops are just people. 
 (with mock confidentiality) Frankly, your problem's so simple, it's almost beneath me. Have faith, 'Alice.' Close your eyes and enjoy. 
 DENISE'S VOICE Open your eyes...and don't touch. It's wet. 
 (looking in mirror) ...Could be worse...could be green...I think I like it. 
 Of course you like it...ask anybody... Denise gives great hair. Got any grass? 
 (shaking his head) Nope. 
 What else don't you have that I need? 
 DENISE'S VOICE Our male star isn't going to like you... 
 (moving toward window) Why not? 
 You're too good looking. His idea of a perfect stunt double is two- hundreds pounds of hamburger in a red wig... 
 What's she like? I've seen her on 
. 
 (irritated by his interest in Nina) At selling douche powder, she's fabulous; dog food?...I'm not sure she's sincere. 
 What are you sore about? 
 I'm not sore. Isn't that what you wanted to know? (with sarcasm) ...Or did you mean, what's the real Nina Franklin like--without the greasepaint and tinsel... 
 DENISE (CONT'D) ...You mean, what's she like -- underneath? 
 DENISE (CONT'D) (moving toward him) What do those say about the girl who wears them? Shy? Delicate? Sensitive? 
 DENISE (CONT'D) (touching his hair) Still wet...very wet. 
 You sure he can breathe? (a mumbling assent from beneath the sand) Where's Raymond? (Raymond kneels beside him) Remember, you just crashed...you were wandering the beach behind the German lines looking for a place to hide when you saw the explosion. You're stunned by the carnage. That bomb was dropped by a guy in your squadron. Okay? Roll the film. 60   POV THRU CAMERA 
 (cackling) Gotcha that time! Didn't we? 
 (through his laughter) Yeah, you got me another half-hour behind. 
 (gently, grinning) Thought the chief could use a little cheering up today. 
 (turning quiet and serious) ...So you heard the news about Burt... 
 (nodding) Any more word? 
 (bitterly) Afraid not...there's no picture ever made that's worth it. 
 (shaking his head) I'll never understand why these guys do it -- take the chances. 
 (thoughtfully) Don't know. Trying to beat the system, I guess...we all know that some day we're gonna die of nothing more important than wrinkles...and that makes us so scared and crazy, we'll do anything. Go off bridges...fight windmills...wars... anything. 
 ELI (CONT'D) That's what our film's about -- or didn't you know? (sees Cameron) Hey, Burt, come over here. 
 (to Eli) My new cock and balls? 
 (quickly) Not new...It's important not to let that get around as yet. So, for the time being, let's make like he's the same guy. (adding a touch of color) But no longer known as "Bad-assed Burt." Ever since his 'fortunate rescue,'...we call him "Lucky." 
 Your film from that camera in the Duesenberg's on the way to the lab. Put it on the plane with my own little hands. 
 
 Don't know. Stamped it "rush." 
 If I stamp "rush" on my mare's ass, she'll still take eleven months to foal. Call the lab and find out when! (quietly) I lost a man today. I wanna see that footage and find out why. 
 Done any stunt work? 
 Not really. 
 Not really?   You have or you haven't? 
 (good-naturedly) I got out of Vietnam in one piece. Let me tell you that wasn't a bad stunt. 
 (skeptically) That's ancient history. 
 Seems like yesterday. 
 (pointing at church steeple) Could you jump from that tower to the that roof? 
 (being glib) Once, to save my ass, I jumped out of a banana tree into an oxcart full of buffalo shit. Does that count? 
 We'll see.    Put these on. 
 (puzzled by the pads) Where do they go? 
 (tapping his knee) Under the pants. (pointing to lines he has drawn) I want you to jump from here...to there. 
 Okie-dokie. 
 Very good. Except you're dead!! Your brains are scattered all over the goddamn pavement. You landed on the edge and fell backwards four stories. Where do we send the body? 
 (returns to the starting line) Don't bury me yet. 
 You're still dead! You fell over the other side of the building. 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) You wanna try it right, once? You should land in a tuck-and-roll. 
 Show me, sergeant. 
 Very fancy. 
 Okay? 
 Better. 
 My speciality is Hopscotch. 
 And Burt's specialty was drowning. You know one goddamn daredevil on this picture was enough! What the hell was Eli thinking, giving me a smart-ass, cocky, amateur kid when I need a stunt man! It's a little different running across that roof when they're pumping tracer bullets over your head. 
 (eloquently pleading his case) I was running for twenty-six months with guys shooting at me...not over my head...at my head and I'm alive. I knew daredevils. I got nothing against them...it's just they're all dead. So ease off and give me a chance... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) (genuinely) Hey, were you putting me on? 
 Me?   I wouldn't know how to do that. 
 (pained) Can you imaging Eli doing a World War I picture without horses? Do you know the gags I could do with four runaway horses pulling a caisson? 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) ...Next time hit me higher. 
 (climbing to his feet) What's Eli got against horses?    I love horses. 
 Don't butter me up. 
 (as he walks) We'll draw a sight line for you to follow down the roof here, while you're rolling. Now there's nothing very difficult. But this is where you gotta think. Your mind can't be on snatch. It's gotta be on grabbing that gutter. 
 Or my brains are all over the pavement again, right? 
 (walking away) You know a good falling horse makes more money in four minutes than a bank president does in a year? 
 Picture's not over. Maybe you'll still get your chance. 
 (sadly) Naw, all they care about is story. 64A 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) Now here's where the scuffle ends. When the pipe breaks loose, you fall and hit that awning. Then Eli yells "cut" and old Raymond takes your place for the close-ups and the glory. That's where the German soldiers catch him and throw him in the nuthouse. They're shootin' that scene downstairs now. 
 (staring at awning) That's supposed to hold me? Probably doesn't hold rain. 
 It's not a real awning, it's a catcher. 
 CHUCK'S VOICE It's no harder up here than it is on the ground... 
 (alert) Yeah, how much? 
 You're stealing candy with this gag. You get six hundred bucks. 
 (almost falling) 
 ...Christ! Watch it, will ya? (helping Cameron onto roof) What did you think a stunt man is? He's a professional. If the camera jams, that's another six hundred and if Eli says "try it again," six hundred more. 
 (exultantly) Yahooo! Six-fucking-hundred-bucks!! 
 ...STOP!...Get away!! 
 CAMERON'S VOICE (on the roof overhead) ...Six-fucking-hundred, gorgeous, beautiful dollars! I can't believe it! 
 ELI'S VOICE All right. Hold it! Hold it! 68 
 ...Save it, everybody. 
 (cutting him off) ...Never mind. I didn't like it anyway. 
 What's wrong? 
 The scene's wrong. (yells to the A.D.) Call a break. 
 (fighting for his scene) Eli, it played like a dream.   My God, it was Marat-Sade. 
 (glumly) It played like shit! 
 (desperate) Well, who was that on the phone in the middle of the night when you first read it, raving about the magical madhouse scene, the upstairs maid? 
 What do you wanna do, Eli?... They're all waiting. 
 SAM (CONT'D) (irritated) Being childish isn't going to help your movie...You know, there's nothing wrong with the story. (removing his shoe and shaking the sand out) The real problem is since I wrote this thing two years ago, you've had Watergate, the energy crisis, Women's Lib, the economy is down the tubes...You want to talk about burning issues?...There's arsenic in the glue on the back of food stamps! That's why you don't like the "madhouse scene." Your goddamn war story has lost its relevance. 
 Don't be negative, Sam. We can start a new one in time for the preview. 
 Cut it out, will ya? 
 Two years ago you were all charged up to make a great big anti-war statement and they wouldn't let you. Now they let you, but you haven't got a war. What you've got is egg on your face because Vietnam's long gone and it's too late! 
 Our picture's not about fighting wars... 
 Oh? 
 ...It's about fighting windmills. 
 War isn't the disease...It's only one of the symptoms. 
 (hooked) What's the disease? 
 That's the big question, Sam. Name the disease and you've licked the screenplay. (indicating Cameron) Ask him. 'Cause he knows what the film is about. Right Lucky? Tell 'em...How'd you like Vietnam? 
 How'd you like bubonic plague? 
 You drafted? 
 No. 
 See, Sam? Here's another one who hates war...but he enlisted. (to Cameron) You fought in Vietnam for two years? ...I mean actually were out there killing people... 
 ...Hey, I didn't kill that many people... 
 Don't be modest, Lucky. Everybody digs a little violence...What was that you said on the beach? 
 About what? 
 About getting home for Thanksgiving? 
 (tentatively) ...that you better figure the guy coming at you is trying to kill you...? 
 
 (getting the last word) Hey, Lucky, give me your cot by the window and I'll let you read a great madhouse sequence. 
 (surrendering) All right, Eli. I'll write you another scene. What difference does it make? The studio will cut it all out anyway and what you got left is a lot of swell battle scenes, which, when I was back there they said were "just terrific." 
 (simply) No, they won't. 
 Yeah, what makes you different? 
 (quietly) Because they know if they cut my picture, I'll kill 'em. 
 You mean, bang? Kill 'em, just like that? 
 (matter of fact) No. I'll kill 'em and eat 'em...I hate to waste anything. 
 (laughs) They call him "Eli the Terrible..." 
 Sam, my picture is the only kid I've got! If the studio said your daughter, Jennifer, would look better with her fingers chopped off, what would you do? 
 Being an insecure writer, I'd call my agent...and get another opinion. 
 ...If you'll excuse me... 
 (arriving) Don't go away, Burt.   I want you. 
 (broad welcome) Jake! Long time, no see. You taken care of my problem with the beach? 
 I'm not talking to you. (to Production Manager) I understand you got that film out of the Duesenberg... 
 (cutting in) It's at the lab, Jake. 
 I'm talking to this gentleman. (to Production Manager) We want to see it. 
 Tell the Chief it's our pleasure. Soon as it gets back...but ask him why. 
 (choked up with its importance) You can tell your Mr. Cross this inquiry comes from a source so high it is not his to question... (now at a loss for proper words) ...it is his to do it, or else. Someone they're looking for may have been on that road when the car went off. (to Cameron) Burt, you see anybody? 
 JAKE (CONT'D) Hey, did you have red hair before?... 
 (indicating Denise) She sprays it every day so I look like Raymond...I didn't see a soul. 
 (to the rescue) Tell the Chief that Burt was so busy being brilliant, he wouldn't have noticed Jesus Christ walking on the water. 
 (V.O.) Hey, Burt! You got it upside down. The eyes go on top. 
 (V.O.) A couple of telephone linemen say they saw him headed this way. 
 Looks like a nice clean-cut kid. 
 I know about fifty guys who don't think so. 
 What'd he do? 
 (to Production Manager, ignoring Eli's question) The minute that film gets here you give me a call. 
 (yawning and rising) I don't know about those fifty guys, but I know one weary guy who's gonna crawl upstairs and hit the sack. 
 I know a weary guy who's driving to Cape Long to dance and booze all night... 
 
 So long as you're back in ninety minutes. It's a work night for some of us. (loftily) ...Those who give a shit. 
 Miss Franklin! Miss Franklin! Your 'Feminique Spray' commercial is on TV. My God, it's simply heavenly! 73   INT.   CAMERON'S HOTEL ROOM - CLOSE ON DRESSER - NIGHT 
 
 Bet they're looking for that nut who killed all those campers in Montana... 
 (drunk) ...Too many campers, weed 'em out! ...Imagine, sitting an hour at a roadblock. 
 We should have waited, it wouldn't have been an hour. 74A   They've entered the hotel. Cameron continues to the bottom of the stairs, hesitates, looking back at Nina. 75    CAMERON'S POV 
 NINA'S VOICE What next? Do you rescue the maiden from the tower? 
 (smiles) Hi. 
 Yes. It does look pretty high. (with concern) Are you worried about tomorrow? 
 Not much. I guess if there were any real danger, Eli wouldn't let me do it, would he? 
 (quickly, reassuring) No. I'm sure it's safe. 
 (abruptly, with a boyish grin) Good. Then you jump. 
 (laughing) Okay. 
 Well, come on. 
 (willing, but flustered) What, right now? 
 NINA (CONT'D) Wait, I'm afraid of heights!   What if I freeze up? 
 (pulling her along) Don't worry, I'll give you a push. Isn't that what a pal's for? 77   INT.   BELL TOWER - NIGHT 
 (gasps) Oh, my God! It's terrifying! You can't jump from this...you'll get killed! It's crazy!... 
 (laughing) ...It's not that bad. It looks worse at night... Chuck says it's like robbing a candy store. 
 (getting angry) Now stop that! ...I'm going back. 
 ...What's wrong? 
 It's just dumb...to strut around trying to talk brave... 
 NINA (CONT'D) 
 (seriously) Not really. 
 Yes.   You are...You're trembling. 
 So are you...and you're not even gonna jump. 
 (V.O.) Okay, hit two and three. 
 (business as usual) I could kill this brute and fill with juniors. You'd get a halo around the tower. 
 (struggling to resist) Got no time...it's an establishing shot...two seconds on the screen. (giving in) ...You got six minutes. 
 Hey! While you're up there, be useful. We're lighting. Stand up and look towards the sea so you're in profile! 
 (V.O.) (hollering) Light this, Eli!!! 80   EXT.   CHURCHYARD - BENEATH THE TOWER - NIGHT 
 ...And those bells are so interesting. Imagine four hundred years ago by boat from Amsterdam. Thank you for the tour. It was so informative. I'm going to write my father. He's so interested in God and things like that. 
 ELI'S VOICE Hiya.   Want a lift? 
 (ducking) Oh, for Christ's sake... 
 There once was a maiden fair, smooching a guy with red hair... 
 Eli, get away with that thing! 
 ...Could it be Raymond who's turning this dame on? ...Or his double, young Lucky Pierre? 
 It's gotten to the point where I have to look under the stopper of the bathtub when I take a shower to make sure I've got some privacy! (broadly gesturing to group) Thank you one and all and good night! 
 Step right in, folks...the "Killer Crane" ride of the century. 
 Thanks, I'll walk. 
 Ah, youth. Six hours in town and caught with the leading lady. Not bad. Shouldn't be so upset. 
 Okay to be upset about what happened in the dining room? Why'd you promise to show that cop the film? He'll recognize me. 
 You really don't trust me, do you? Hop in. I got a present for you. 
 ELI (CONT'D) You constantly amaze me. You don't go to movies. What's that tatoo, a disguise? You a Commie? Don't you know that King Kong was only three feet tall? He came up to Fay Wray's belly button. If God could only do the tricks we can. What are you worried about the film and the cop for? 
 CAMERON'S VOICE (muttering) What am I worried about the cops for? 
 ELI'S VOICE Another one over there. 
 (puts viewer down) Is this my present? 
 No, your present is a piece of good advice. 
 Keep it. 
 (patting Sam's beach bag) You've got that look again. That gleam of the sprinter about to set a record for the 50-yard dash. Is that why all those cops are chasing you? What are you, some kind of sex freak running across America with your fly open? Is that why they're after you? 
 You're close. What's your advice? 
 Button your fly and be at the airport on Sunday at three o'clock with the rest of the crew. Climb aboard our chartered 707 and fly away with us to where the setting sun bleeds into a million swimming pools a man can hide in. You do swim as well as run? 
 (overwhelmed by the offer) I'll swim like a fish. You really mean it? (Eli nods) Why are you trying to save my ass? 
 ...Because you're as crazy as the guy I'm doing the picture about. (then grinning archly, the mood broken) ...Besides, I've fallen madly in love with the dark side of your nature. 
 Now! 
 
 Go!...Go! 
 Keep rolling! (calling out to soldiers) The clothes!...Do the clothes! 98   ANGLE ON CAMERON 
 (dialect) What are you a field marshal? 
 (dialect) Wait your turn like the rest! 
 (dialect) Where are your manners? 
 (dialect) This is a whorehouse, not a stable. 
 ELI'S VOICE Cut! 
 I'm so proud of you...I could just die! 
 (quietly to Chuck, wincing in pain) Why didn't you tell me about the awning? I could have been killed. 
 No chance. You were in your mother's arms from the time you hit the sugarglass skylight. Those stunt men you fell on would have got you out of anything. 
 Stunt men? 
 The one with the tits and the other guy. 
 Why didn't you tell me?     Afraid I'd chicken out? 
 Eli likes some things spontaneous. Makes 'em more believable. You're okay. Whaddya want? 
 Not to think I'm going crazy. 
 (yelling) Where's Raymond? Raymond, were you watching that closely? 
 (appearing) What can I tell you?     I'm a brave son-of-a-bitch. 
 All right. We're doing the coverage. Camera here. 
 ELI (CONT'D) (to Chuck) Careful. Don't blind the eagle. (to Cameron) I owe you six hundred bucks. 
 (acknowledging the compliment) If anything bothered you, be happy to do it again. 
 (to Chuck) I can't take my eyes off the son-of- a-bitch. Everybody does what he wants them to, even me. I feel like thankin' him 'cause I fell on my ass. 
 (sarcasm) ...It's just a crush.   You'll get over it. 
 What did you think? 
 You are a smug, insufferable son-of- a-bitch. When I read the insane asylum scene to my wife and four children, my wife cried, my oldest son shook my hand for the first time in his whole life. So, why is it, Eli, that this vulgar little scene turns out to be so much...stronger, more moving? 
 (touched) God knows, Sam. Maybe...because you get the feeling that the enemy might just be some poor horny slob like you, lookin' for the nearest whorehouse. (putting his arm around Cameron) How about that, Lucky? When that stunt man's boob hit you in the mouth, was it just another boob...or did it taste like kraut? 
 It tasted lousy. But what do I know? You try it, Eli. You're the expert in bad taste. 
 (for the group) Uh-oh, sounds like the soldier's got his feelings hurt. 
 Naw, naw. I just don't know about Germans. Where I was we only raped gooks. 
 (genially) Oh, is that why the cops are after you? ...After all this time? 
 (sarcastic) Damn! You finally guessed it! 100A   WIDER ANGLE 
 
 (to mechanic) Have you seen Harvey? 
 I think he's in there. 
 You'll have it ready on time? 
 Yeah, but don't look under the hood or you'll find a Chevy. 
 (shouting) Harvey in here? 
 (yelling) Quiet. We're shooting. (then back to business) Come on...let me have a little more face...a little more face! 
 (screaming) Cut! (indignantly) Jesus, Kenneth. Great control. All right, who's doubling for Kenny on the inserts? 
 Can you believe this? They spend the whole day working in a whorehouse and look how they relax? That's dedication. You think sex can save the world? (grins at Cameron) 
 That's not my bag, Eli. 
 Sex, or saving the world? 
 ...The world, that's your special job. And Jesus, are we all lucky to have you around... 
 (to Eli) Hey Chief, ya lookin' for me? 
 What's happening?   What's going on? 
 (joking) Look who's here! Nina, we need you. Still got your makeup on? 
 That's a daring touch, Raymond!    The rowboat. Terribly symbolic. 
 (kidding her) Just like the old days, huh kid? Remember the sunglasses and garter belts back when we got our start? Make you nostalgic? 
 Hi Lancelot. What's a nice boy like you doing in a place like this? Going to rescue the maiden from the boat? 
 He just asked if he could do the rowing. Didn't you, kid? 
 Having fun with me, aren't you? It's Eli's potty training class. Show little Lucky the pretty lady. Make dirt on the pretty lady. Watch little Lucky puke. Trouble with you is you think the whole world is your own personal crapper. (Cameron starts to exit) Have yourself a time...Just wallow around in it, man. Watching you makes me feel like Mr. Clean. 
 ...Goddamn little prudish bastard! 
 No more than you and me...it's the human condition. We just hide it better. 
 ...Are you kidding?...If That guy in the rowboat was a Marine sticking a bayonet in her instead of a cock, that uptight son-of-a-bitch would have saluted. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Fucking Fascist. What are you laughing at? 
 It's just...that girl in the rowboat, she looks exactly like your daughter, Jennifer. 
 (outraged) Goddamn you, Eli.   That's not funny! 
 (laughing and wrestling) 
 Son of a bitch. 
 (still laughing) See what I mean? Old Victoria's still got us all by the balls. God save the queen!...Only difference is, we like to make movies about it. 
 ELI (CONT'D) Harvey, dailies at six o'clock tomorrow morning. We're shooting at seven. 
 ELI (CONT'D) All right now, let's put a little bit of class into this production! 
 What the hell is that? 
 Hey Nina, there's your toothpaste commercial! 
 I love her smile... 
 (whispering) How they get the film developed so fast? 
 What's the matter? 
 (turning on him) Don't let the fact that Eli treats you as an equal go to your head. You're not! 
 Thanks. 
 ELI'S VOICE 
 I'm sorry, Eli. 
 But he can say anything and that's okay... 
 ...That's right... 
 ...That's great... 
 ...What goes on in that dim little head of yours? How dare you open your mouth to him like that? Have you the vaguest idea what he's trying to say to people with this film?!...That man is the most dedicated, kindest...! 
 ELI'S VOICE Nina, you can go now. 
 "WINGS"). 
 Jesus, Eli, I'm sorry.    I'll do a pickup. 
 (laughing) It's so awful, it's beautiful.    Wish I could use it. 
 (sarcastic) That's all we'd need. 
 (getting morose) We goddamn well need something, Sam. Something better than we got... 
 (tight-lipped) Better? How better? 
 Wilder, crazier. 
 (starting to shout) Dropping a dead man's boots over his own airfield, out of chivalry... that's not crazy enough for you?! 
 They did it in "Wings."    Even the dummy was bored. 
 
 You can't shake your finger at 'em, Sam. If you've got something to say, you better slip it in while they're laughing and crying and jacking off over the sex and violence. He should do something...outrageous! 
 (belligerent) Like what? 
 Something to catch the stink of madness behind all that good clean fun. Why the hell did we pick World War I in the first place?...The ultimate romantic insanity! 
 (shouting) Like what?! 
 Like...I don't know what! What would Lucky do if he were on the wing of that plane? Picture that because it would be a hell of a lot realer than that flapping dummy. 
 Is that what you're after, reality? I thought you wanted something outrageous! 
 Reality can be pretty outrageous. Look at soldier boy there, jumping off fucking buildings, risking his ass every day, doing stuff way over his head!...What would you do in that plane, Lucky, if you were about to die? 
 (off guard, embarrassed) What else? I'd dance for joy...I'd probably do a jig. 
 Great!   That's what we'll do. 
 Eli... 
 All right, not a jig...a Charleston... 
 A Charleston? 
 ...On the wing of the airplane! 
 (contempt) ...That's ridiculous. 
 You're damn right... 
 The Charleston is silly...They won't believe it. 
 (excited) I'll do it so they'll believe it! 
 (smugly) You'll get a laugh, Eli. 
 Only when I want them to laugh!... (toward rear of the room) Right, Lucky? 
 Fan-fucking-tastic. Whaddya been feeding that soldier-boy...brave pills? 
 It's not what he's eating...it's what's eating him...that makes it sort of interesting. (through intercom) Okay, drop the package. 116 
 How is it? 
 (panning and tilting) Su-fucking-perlative. 
 (into walkie-talkie) Okay, now level out. 119   ANGLE ON CRANE OPERATOR 
 That's twice for me today. Now. And when I watched you do the stunt. 
 NINA (CONT'D) I have to study my scene for tomorrow. The Old Lady at the cemetery. It's brutal. I set the clock in case we dozed off. 
 How come they cast you as an old lady? 
 I start out as a young girl hiding this American flyer. I'm Austrian... Will ya turn off the clock? 
 NINA (CONT'D) Anyway, his patriotism is stronger than his love and he leaves me with another little patriot in my belly. 
 Why can't I double for both of you? I could use the money and I don't look half bad. 
 (seriously) Honey, you'll ruin it.    Take it off. 
 NINA (CONT'D) The clock's electric. It'll ring forever. 
 Eli might really go for that, the big soldier as a little old lady. 
 What's wrong? 
 Everything's beautiful. 
 What are you doing? 
 We've got to consider Eli. If you don't study the scene, he'll be mad...then you'll get mad...and I'll get shot out of a cannon. 
 Did you fall on your head today? 
 I want it to ring. 
 Why? 
 For me, that's why. That's Eli yelling for you to work on your scene and us saying, "Up yours, Eli," and I like that. 
 Do you want to leave? 
 I want to make love to you while Eli is screaming his head off. 
 I can't make love with the clock ringing. 
 Betcha can. 
 (to ringing clock while making love to Nina) You tell 'em, Eli. 
 (to himself) Crazy bastard! 
 There was no way it could go wrong...unless he just went ape. 
 The harness is okay...the roof is holding...it all seems fine. 
 But look at him struggle... 
 ...Badly. Eli wouldn't use a foot of it...poor slob died for nothin'. 
 That crack...in the windshield... 
 
 CHUCK'S VOICE There! Look at that. He's starting to panic. Will you, for Christ's sake, tell me why? 
 Shit. That's where it stops. That fuckin' Henry...got spooked and took his finger off the remote button. 
 Is this how the story was supposed to end, with the flyer dying in the water? 
 Sure as shit ended that way for Burt, didn't it? 
 (gesturing) The graveyard's over here... (he takes a few steps) ...Her car's parked here. (sets down a folding chair) ...Lots of these little graveyards along the roadside...most of the stones are unmarked... 
 ELI (CONT'D) You're tired...you're broke...all things which meant so much are gone. What's left is a single memory... that brief bright love. 
 ELI (CONT'D) ...You spent your month's pension in hiring the car. You just can't look for his grave any longer...so you pick one...any one. You kneel... then lay the flowers down. (yells to the prop man) What have we got for her? 
 I got roses. 
 No...something she picked herself... wildflowers or something. 
 (hesitantly) Eli. An idea, maybe. Instead of flowers, what if she brought him the things of their life together...of their sexuality...like her nightgown, her underclothes... 
 SAM (CONT'D) 'Course they'd be rags by now, but let me show you this... 
 SAM'S VOICE It's authentic. Early Victorian. Mechanical bronzes were quite a thing. 129   ANGLE ON GROUP 
 Sam, you'll get a belly laugh. 
 What do you mean?   It'll break their hearts! 
 Welcome to the picture, Sam! 
 Naw, nothin' too unusual today...get run over by a tank, blown up by a land mine, a house falls on me... Easy stuff, but I can use a rest. 
 DENISE'S VOICE ...And some manners. As one of the world's greatest middle-weight lovers, I hate to play a one-night stand. I heard you been busy, but you know the old saying...like, if you can't come, call? 
 (appeasingly) I wanted to, but I was scared. They're so square where I hail from. Twice is considered a love affair...didn't want to rush you. 
 ...Three times is a love affair. Twice is nice... 
 (O.S.) (yelling) Hey Denise, for Christ's sake! We got a set call in forty minutes. 131   ANOTHER ANGLE 
 (to Cameron) You just sit here...dry...and repent. 
 Glad ya could tear yourself away. 
 
 You wait. Eli'll wave his wand and get it out of her in five minutes. 
 DENISE'S VOICE (trimming his hair) You're confused...He got it into her in five minutes. To get it out of her...it takes longer. 
 DENISE (CONT'D) (softly) Hey. C'mon, Red...I'm a woman scorned...I'll say anything. 
 Signora...signora... 
 Signora. This desecration... some flowers perhaps...would be permitted. 
 Please, signora. It's not right. The grave is unmarked. 
 (shrugging) Anything is possible, signora. (tries urging her to her feet) Now, you must permit me to escort you to your car. 
 No... 
 (quietly) Cut... 
 Eli, I'll kill myself. 
 ...and print. 
 (eyes brimming over) Thank you, baby. 
 Change of plans. We're making the stunt a fire gag. When you come out of the barn, you're in flames...wanna try it. 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) Look, don't do it if you don't wanna... 
 What does Eli say? 
 You know Eli... "Tell the soldier it's an extra hundred bucks and he'll do it without the asbestos." Whaddya say? 
 Tell Eli to do it. 
 Hey, what the hell is wrong with you? 
 I'm tired of being somebody's goddamn clown! 
 (moving into the shot) Hey, you don't want to do it, don't do it, but be happy! It's a great day! Did you see her performance? Terrific. It's a day for humility and brotherly love! 
 Fine, Eli. Let's be brotherly. Milk brothers, sucking from the same tit. 
 CUT!! 137   ANGLE TO INCLUDE ELI AND CREW 
 Who said that? 
 We had a film run-out. 
 (to Gabe) How many feet are left in that camera? 
 (checking the Mitchell) Thirty-six feet. 
 Goddamn you! How many times are you going to do this to me? How dare you yell cut on my set? 
 (defensively) Thirty-six feet is nothing... 
 It's twenty-two seconds! In twenty- two seconds, I could break your spine...I could pinch your fucking head off like an insect and smear it on the pavement...I could put twenty-two bullets in that fat gut of yours! The only thing I can't seem to do in twenty-two seconds is keep you from fucking up my film! 
 (southern-belle sarcasm) ...I can't tell you how pleased I was with your conduct. When you congratulated me after my scene this afternoon, all the other glowing tributes faded to nothing... 139   WIDER ANGLE - INT.   CAMERON'S AND SAM'S ROOM 
 NINA (CONT'D) ...Nevertheless, I'm cancelling your invitation to an intimate party given by my parents, who arrived unexpectedly to honor me on the occasion of my birthday...but don't feel too badly. As consolation for a lovely evening missed, I'm presenting you with the "good-sport- of-the-month" award. 
 NINA (CONT'D) Mr. Baum, will you notify this young savage that it's customary to cover one's privates when accepting an award? It's one of the common courtesies, like...congratulating people. 
 (coldly) What should I congratulate you for? The fucking scene or for fucking the director? 
 For fucking the director, honey. (biting into apple) Didn't you know that's how little girls get into the movies? 
 (quietly) Young man, taking my life in my hands, I must inform you that you are an asshole. 
 SAM (CONT'D) Being a devout masochist, it follows that I'm Eli's best friend. I know quite a lot about him and Nina. 
 You and the entire crew, buddy. 
 (wryly) He met her three years ago. Two lonely people rattling around New York. A brutal winter. Eli's marriage had just broken up... 
 (interrupting in anger) ...All she had to do was tell me! 
 SAM'S VOICE She could have done that in four seconds. They went to bed once and they were lousy as lovers. But they had a problem. They liked each other. They recognized some area of mutual sensitivity. I'm boring you. 
 You telling me he banged her once three years ago? 
 SAM'S VOICE (disgusted) I'm going to see if they can put me up in the employees' toilet. 
 Yeah... 
 
 So how's the new ending coming? 
 I got fourteen versions. Take your pick. (worried about his clothes) What are you doing in there? 
 (overly casual) ...Fourteen gory ways to die? 
 Thirteen. In one version he lives...turns the girl in, opens a gay bar in Berlin, gains fifty pounds and changes his name to Goering... (now deeply concerned) ...Please, anything but the sweaters. You'll stretch the hell out of the sleeves. 
 (hesitantly) I was sort of invited to a birthday party and I can't seem to find it...and this seems to be a birthday party... 
 A birthday party is a birthday party...sit down. (Cameron does) Who was this birthday party for... animal, vegetable or mineral? 
 ...Mineral. 
 Will you stop teasing this young man? 
 She's really worth finding, ma'am. She's a very rare mineral. 
 (pleased with Cameron) How old is this mineral? 
 This morning she was acting about ninety, but she might be lying a year or two. 
 No, you got the wrong table...this one's acting like she's six...but the missus tells me birthdays are very emotional for the ladies. 
 I'm sorry it got so late...that damn five o'clock makeup call...I feel as bad as you do... 
 In the same place I do? 
 Will you take a raincheck? (slipping her room key in his pocket) ...A permanent one? 
 A season pass. 
 (smiling) Good night. 
 (looking up) Lucky...hey Lucky, come over here! 
 HENRY (CONT'D) Guess who tole 'em to take their job and stuff it? 
 Ya quittin'? 
 Fuckin' A. Gettin' out tonight. But not without splittin' a Schlitz with the one guy, 'cept me, who wouldn't take shit from that screwball. 
 HENRY (CONT'D) Change is for you, except that. That's a very special dime. (holds it up for Cameron to see) Know what this is? Ask me! 
 It's a dime...am I close? 
 It's Eli Cross' ass. People think 'cause you're easygoin' they can walk all over you. Bull-shit...I'm blowin' the whistle with this dime in that phone...killin' a man and hiding it from the police...are you kiddin'...? Who is he think he is? 
 What the hell you doin'? 
 
 Do whatever you wanna do, but I better do it with ya! You'll need help 'cause that goddamn looney is dangerous. 
 (blustering) Not to me, he ain't. I'm going to the cops. You gotta earn your living in pictures, but I don't give a shit. He can't hurt me. 
 Don't be too sure. Damned psycho nearly strangled me! Don't believe me? Wanna see marks...? (tears open shirt collar to show bruises) ...Lucky to be alive! 
 (confused) Henry, what are you talking about? I watched that whole thing today, he didn't even touch you. 
 Not today. When Burt went into the water. (Cameron is wide-eyed) I could tell from up there in the chopper something' was wrong. So, I stopped shootin' and that crazy man gets me by the throat and starts screamin' to roll the film...I mean that guy's down there dying and he's screamin', "Keep shooting! Keep shooting!" Then, he starts fighting me for the switch and it falls down...like a crazy house up there, with him thrashin' on the floor...He didn't care about Burt. All he cared about was to get that man dyin' on film! Sickest thing I ever seen! 
 HENRY (CONT'D) I better grab that cab. 
 HENRY (CONT'D) You tell 'em everything...don't mince words... 
 (overwrought) Nina...your crazy Eli... 
 Jesus...don't step on 'em. 
 (screaming) Get out of here! 
 NINA (CONT'D) Get out!!! (raging) I'll have you thrown out! 
 Is there anybody in this whole company you haven't screwed? 
 
 (coldly) My girl gave me her key! 
 I am not your girl! I am that man's girl! That man and I have been lovers for six months! I've known you two days! 
 (ironically) Then gee, ma'am, I sure hope you didn't tell him about all that ballin' last night. 
 Don't you dare be clever with me! He came scratching at the door tonight like a beaten dog, begging me to say that you were some twenty- four hour nonsense. (against her will she starts to cry) ...and I had to tell him I thought I was falling in love with... 
 (not giving an inch) You couldn'a said that with your clothes on?! 
 Goddamn you! The wounded stud! He is entitled to some dignity! To lose his "pure and faithful lover" without the new boy barging in! Where do you suppose he is now? 
 Did ya look in the laundry hamper? 
 GET OUT!     Get the HELL OUT!! 
 I don't have any rights? I don't have the right to be pissed off...? 
 You don't have the right to breathe! I knew him before I met you! Do you understand that?! Before I met you!! If we were frightened, we woke each other in the dark...we slept in each other's arms... 
 (interrupting) The word is "fuck!" 
 All right, the word is fuck! You narrow, insensitive, stupid...! 
 (interrupting) Don't. Don't push me. I don't know this freaky world you live in, but I know that there still must be a couple of places where people somehow believe in... 
 Believe in what? You're blushing. A place where what? Don't get embarrassed at this late date! 
 ...A place where a guy has a right to blow his top if he finds his lover screwing... 
 (interrupting) Raymond's lover! Raymond's lover! Say it! Raymond's lover! 
 NINA (CONT'D) I'll have it typed up and notarized...! Raymond's lover! And you will sign where it says, agreed! 
 NINA (CONT'D) (quietly) You won't turn me into some rotten whore because your papa once told that a woman is a certain way "and that's how it's gonna be 'til Gabriel blows his horn..." 
 (wearily) Okay...okay. I just want to sit a couple of seconds without having to say a word. Because if I start trying to say, "I'm sorry I caught you and Raymond fucking," I'll start laughing and when I laugh too hard, I get the hiccups and they can last for days. 
 (after a long beat; softly) Don't get hiccups. 
 (quietly) Isn't anything what it seems to be?... 
 (quietly) No... 
 (quietly) Don't you think that's kind of lousy? 
 (quietly) Yes... 
 ELI'S VOICE You okay back there? 
 Happy as clams. 
 (brightly) She's so beautiful. Isn't it amazing how they put it all together and... 
 ...132 through 40 next? Sam should see this. I think I left in a line of his dialogue. (yelling to projectionist) Go ahead. 
 (upset) Sweet Christ!   I told 'em to hold that... 
 (starting to leave her seat) I'll stop it. 
 (restraining her, resigned) Too late now...only make it worse. 
 (to the crew, O.S.) All right, save it. 159   ANGLE TO INCLUDE CAMERON 
 Nina. The shame of it...the shame! You've lost your son, your lover. You want to tear his throat out... but you stand meek...your guts burning with the shame of it. 
 God, I don't know what's wrong with me. 
 NINA (CONT'D) 
 (upset) Honey...you better know this...don't get all shook up now... 
 ELI (CONT'D) Something got screwed up...the dailies... 
 What? 
 The attic scene. The bare-ass attic scene... I'm sorry... I don't know how... it was too late to stop it... your parents... 
 (an urgent whisper) ...Roll film. 
 I envy you the pride you must feel today. A young hero has fallen gloriously on the field of battle. 
 VOICE (CONT'D) A nation has lost a son! A mother has lost a son! 
 VOICE (CONT'D) This sacrifice in blood brings closer man's noblest dream...a thousand years of peace! 
 Giddyap, soldier.   Last one there's on Medicare. 
 Where are we rushing to?    I Was asleep... 
 Trouble staying awake, huh? 
 ELI (CONT'D) Stick of gum? Makes you hum! (ignored, he chews it himself) Do you read? 
 Short words. 
 Schickel and Bergenstadt... couple of Dutch comedy writers. See, it's got pictures. But don't skim. Chuck's gonna quiz you. If you pass, you get a free trip to Amsterdam and you can stick your finger in a dike. 
 (looking at the book as he walks) What the hell is this? 
 A pamphlet on how to get out of a sunken car. You know, they got this problem in Holland...those canals. So these guys are experts. 
 Did Burt read this? 
 Off hand, I'd say no, wouldn't you? 
 (hands it back to him) 
 There you go rejecting me again. 
 ELI (CONT'D) You've gotta think positive, Burt. 165   INT.   SCREENING ROOM 
 I'm sorry, gentlemen, but I've got exactly two minutes of borrowed time. I'm in the middle of a scene. (to projectionist) Get it started. 
 (addressing a man next to him) This fellow here is the stunt man driving that car. (to Cameron) Thompson is from the FBI. They wanted you here in case they have any questions. 
 I don't see anybody else on the road...did you, Burt? 
 No. 
 My buddy and I saw that son-of-a- bitch break out of the woods and head that way, down the road. 
 ...I had a clear view.     I was on top of the pole. 
 Do you mind if we see that again? 
 Help yourself, the room is yours. But I've got thirty people on the set being paid for doing nothing. (moving toward the door and calling) Come on Burt, you've got some reading to do. 
 Hey Burt, glad you're still alive, considering who you're working for. 
 Something wrong?     Why are you lagging? 
 I'm trying to figure it out.       That film. Where was I? 
 How tall is King Kong? 
 Three-foot-six. 
 Good boy. I got all kinds of versions. Wanna go back and see some? 
 ELI (CONT'D) I've even got a version where you fly the helicopter and I'm driving the Duesenberg. It's a dilly. 166A   They have now charged out of the building and are racing across the grounds toward the set. 
 What about the version where I go over the bridge and die in the water? 
 (chewing gum) Hey, kid, what is this with you? That red dye must be eating through your scalp and affecting your brain. Why would I want to hurt you? 
 Because you don't like my tatoo. 
 I think it's beautiful. It's heroic! I think it's a major work that may rank with the Edsel grill! Now goddamnit, I gotta go back and do my picture! Will you take this thing and read?! 
 (softly) I knew a guy...who stepped on a bouncing Betty booby trap. Stepping on it wasn't his problem...they explode when you step off. So all 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...He had this screwy West Texas accent, I remember, "Hey fellas...hey fellas..." 
 Why don't you let the kid go before he gets hurt? 
 Chuck keeps an eye on him. 
 He's dangerous to have around. Stop playing games, Eli. Tell Jake you've replaced him. What are you so hooked on? 
 He helps me understand the kid in our story. 
 Bullshit. 
 He's like one of those land mines left over from a war, that go off from time to time. You read about it in the paper two or three years later...some kid in a bell tower shoots a dozen students for no reason at all...his mother says he was always such a good boy...I guess I'd like to know what he really did. 
 Did you bring the tampax? Raymond's still acting like he's got the "curse." 
 (with black humor) You suppose Raymond knows how to drive a Duesenberg? 
 ...It was so unnecessary...For Christ's sake, I'm no shrinking violet...I've had my ass pinched black and blue by account execs for not showing enough enthusiasm for Vitalis. But this from Eli...it was so pointless...sadistic... 
 (reading) ..."Open All windows slowly to keep pressure from caving in the roof, should an unexpected skid achieve aquatic consequences..." That's kind of witty. 
 
 (eyes on the book) Beautiful...There's a second school of thought that says the first school is all wet. It says, "Keep the windows rolled up tight and wait for the air bubble." 
 Say it was an accident...benefit of the doubt. But then to use me that way...like a gadget...Why would Eli do that? He's not a cruel man... 
 (not looking up) He's not a cruel man.   He's a crazy man. A maniac. 
 What? 
 (reading) "The water pressure at two hundred feet can crush a man into the size of an egg." He wants to get that on film....so he's gonna kill me. 
 (jumping out of bed) What in God's name are you babbling about?! 
 It's a rotten shame about your folks and your naked ass, but dying always scared me a little, okay? 
 
 Did you know that Eli almost strangled a man because he stopped the camera when Burt got killed?! 
 What is going on in that head of yours?! You take the word of some...malcontent...technician! 
 ...I saw the bruises! 
 ...And I saw Eli that night when he had to tell Burt's brother on the phone...I saw the tears. 
 She saw the tears! Did you ask him what he was crying about?! 'Cause you can bet your sweet tits, it wasn't over Burt. He was crying over losing his fucking shot! 
 Didn't they give I.Q. tests in the army? What did you get...minus twelve? Haven't you figured out yet why he's working himself to death? What his film is all about? He's trying to tell people not to kill each other! 
 And you know what? You want the shock of your life...? I understand what the son-of-a-bitch is saying, and he may be right...which makes me what? Minus twelve, the dumb schmuck with a gun. That doesn't change the fact that he's crazy. If he had his way, there wouldn't be a soldier left alive by morning. But 
 Stop it...sweetheart...I'd die if anything happened to you. 
 It's my father...I won't talk to him...You're all driving me crazy...I won't talk to him.! 
 Hi...hello? 
 (whispering) Tell them I'm not here. Tell them anything. Tell them I'm working. 
 (glancing at Nina) Okay, Chuck. I'll meet you in an hour. (he hangs up) For me. Amazing how they keep secrets around here. 
 What if I told you I wasn't going to do the stunt? 
 I'd say fine. 
 And what if I told you I was gonna get out of here tonight...and that I want you to come with me? 
 (upset and confused) But there's just one more day of shooting... 
 What if I can't wait? 
 I...I have two more scenes... 
 That's a shame. 
 ...I could meet you... 
 NINA (CONT'D) ...Look, don't do the stunt! If you believe Eli's a killer, call the police...Why are you doing this to me? That's all I need right now, with all I've been through!...For you to give me now-or-never ultimatums and tell me my director is insane!... 
 Look at this mother...I'll bet these guys could build an Arabian out of a jackass. 
 Why not?   You built a stunt man out of one. 
 Stunt man? Three days and you've already grown those big brass balls? Jump up and down and let me hear 'em clang, and then do me a favor and leave 'em home for this gag. (yanks open the door) There's just enough room in that Duesenberg for a normal guy...who thinks! (Cameron slides in) Show me how long you can hold your breath. 
 Now, look around. Whaddya see?...No roll bar in the roof. That's because the roof caving in really looks gassy on film. You got your protection in the back of the seat...steel sheeting. If the roof goes too far, you get your goddamn head down quick! You listening to me?!...Nod Your head. (slapping Cameron on back) You got good lungs. (buckles Cameron's seatbelt) You got no shoulder harness because it would show on camera. So when you hit the water, you brace yourself against the steering wheel. It's reinforced. You couldn't break it loose with dynamite...you gettin' light-headed yet? 
 Keep your hands off the doors... You're leaving through the window. You lower them slowly as you sink to equalize the pressure. What are you waitin' for? I'm not gonna be down there holding your hand. (Cameron lowering windows) Slower. When you hit bottom, the windows are open and you're gonna make like a minnow. But first, a little fresh air wouldn't hurt. You reach down under the seat and, what do you know, a respirator...Make like you're reaching for it. There'll be one there tomorrow. 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) No, keep your face forward, the camera is behind you and it's still running. 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) You feel like your lungs are gonna burst? Good. That's the way you're supposed to act like you feel. The moment that water gets above your nose, you gotta look like you're drowning. Remember? Burt wasn't so good at that. 
 He sure as hell convinced me. 
 (defensively) Things happen crossin' the street! If somethin' goes cockeyed...screw the scene!   Get that mask on. There's enough oxygen to get you to China. (rolls up the window) We'll try it again. 
 (still panting) Let me catch my breath. 
 What you'll catch is a lungful of water! You're at the bottom of the river!...You breathe when I goddamn tell you to breathe! 
 (the pupil tricking the teacher) Hey, Chuck, you blind?...Can't you see I've got my respirator on? 
 You just goddamn remember you don't have gills!! 
 (shouting) What?!! (listens, then yells to Cameron) Eli's at the police station! 
 That's the best news I've heard. Let's hope it's a felony. 
 He needs Gabe. They're lookin' for a driver so I'm gonna take him. Come on with me. 
 For what? 
 (climbing into the company car) You and me are gonna talk about windows and oxygen and seat belts and things like that. And if you're a good boy and listen and don't be a smart ass, maybe I'll let you sit in the back seat with Nina Franklin. 
 Nina? 
 You might even get to hold hands. 
 (beckoning) Gabe, Nina... 
 ELI (CONT'D) You two better wait here. 
 I hate this, damn it! Couldn't you have done it without me? 
 Let's say you owe it to him. Until two or three days ago, I had a pretty good actor on my hands. Next time you take out the clippers, be a little humane, make sure the guy's got one to spare. 
 (furious) What did you want me to do? Take him in the back room and unzip his fly every time he fluffed a line? What else can I do for your film? 
 Just get your greedy little ass inside and make sure you give the performance of your life. (icily) This next number, I dedicate to you...dear. 
 (vehemently) Who's better, booby...him or me? 
 (shouting) Jake! Throw some water on him, quick! Only way to get 'em apart! 
 Yummy...look at the seafood! You're a humpy little number. (then to Raymond, stamping his foot) You nasty boy. You could've died of mercury poisoning. 
 Jesus Christ, they're all faggots! 
 (shouting) I'm registering a complaint! Thirty- two members of my company got V.D. from your local virgins. The Chamber of Commerce didn't say anything about that in their brochure. 
 You can stop clowning, Eli, I've got a sworn complaint from this sailor... (jabbing his finer in Raymond's O.S. direction) ...Your man over there touched his genitals. 174   ANGLE ON RAYMOND AND NINA 
 Oh, Jake! Come on! You wouldn't know your anal invert from a hole in the ground. Raymond makes bad jokes, but they're not illegal. Christ, you've seen us all on the set...clowning around. 176   EXT.   POLICE STATION 
 My company's been pouring sixty thousand dollars a week into this place, for which your mayor and governor seem very grateful! We paid enough in taxes and fees alone to buy you parking meters from here to the boardwalk! 
 (feeling it's all going wrong) Everything I said in that statement is the flat-ass truth! 
 Jake, I got a very horny leading lady who's got an early call and would like to spend some time with her boyfriend before she makes "night-night." Now, can I please get 'em outta here before they really do something illegal...and in front of witnesses! 
 Sorry I had to put you through that. I know it was humiliating. 
 ...It was awful...I hated it.   But you did save that man's life. 
 Yeah, that was really nice of me. I'm a nice person. I just wish I had the strength to go to his room and break his spine. On the last day of filming the queen decides to come out of the closet! Wouldn't that have made a lovely headline? You understand, of course, that the film would've been destroyed. Doing that to me... 
 Eli, what's wrong? 
 Nothing serious.     Just a little self-indulgence.     Feel-sorry-for- Eli-time. 
 ELI (CONT'D) I'm sorry, but you know...it's too goddamn much. Why's everybody on my back? When's somebody gonna say, "There, there Eli?" I'm really surrounded by friends, allies and you..."What else can I do for your film, Eli?" 
 (wounded) That's not fair. 
 What's not fair...getting my feelings "hurt?" When did I lose you to that soldier boy, Nina? That nice, wholesome, swell-looking kid...wanted by every cop, the FBI and God knows who else, for God knows what crime. 
 ELI (CONT'D) Come on, Nina, those blue eyes have bedazzled our little girl. For Christ's sake, he reeks of blood. 
 You sound as crazy as... (she stops) 
 (wryly) As who? 
 He thinks you're trying to... (she can't say 'kill') ...harm him. 
 Any number of people are trying to harm him... 
 How'd you know I was down here? 
 The desk clerk... 
 How about that for luck? Burt's from Idaho...no picture on the driver's license. 
 (quietly) Who are you? 
 (ignoring the seriousness) Name it... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) Hey, how's this? A World War One, uh...what did they call 'em?... dogfaces... somethin'... doughboys. (flings a nurses uniform at her) Wanna be the nurse? 179A   From some hospital props, he grabs a wheelchair and shoves it toward her. 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...You tell me this wouldn't work? A pretty nurse pushing a vet in a wheelchair? When we hit that roadblock, we'd have 'em crying like babies. 
 (quietly) Who the hell are you? 
 Somebody trying to stay alive...anybody--that can get past the dogs and the quicksand... (making a shrewd guess) Who did Eli say I was? 
 I'm asking you, God damn... 
 Easy with that tatoo...it mighta lost me Eli, but it won me Lt. Emily Schmidt, the greatest boobs in Southeast Asia...and a very patriotic chick. So I got this tattoo, for 28 bucks. And when she saw this shoulder, let me tell ya, holy Jesus! Following which I got the clap from the Lt. And hepatitis from the tattoo needle. You know what bothers me? I think Emily is gonna be very offended by Eli's picture. 
 Why do they want you?   What did you do? 
 Eli'd tell you...I was a soldier. I did the same as everybody, just one of the boys... emptied my M-16 at any sound... don't know whether I killed gooks or cherries...the new kids from the States, we call 'em cherries, which they were for maybe fifteen minutes. The dry season is when it really breaks loose. You get very tired. It's like falling asleep at the wheel. You close your eyes and it still goes on. You're killin' them, they're killin' you. Couldn't tell ya now what was real except I'm here. 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) Hey, once when things were rough and the grass ran out, I shot the hell out of a water buffalo. (he considers, then passes judgment on himself) Actually, I wasn't a bad soldier...better than most. Got lotsa pretty ribbons. Funny...sort of like when I did that first stunt and everybody started clapping... nothing like a slap on the back to ruin a man, blow his sense of proportion. So, I got home...and, uh...I guess I expected something. Nothing fancy, but... something, you know...a free car wash, double blue chip stamps, extra time on the parking meter... I don't know... Instead, people... uh, didn't seem too pleased. (trying to hide a lot of pain) In fact, they acted like I was gonna start killing babies... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) Shit. I was supposed to get married, run an ice cream parlor. (picks up his suitcases) I gotta go. 
 ...What about the roadblocks? 
 I'll go through the woods. 
 Don't you suppose there'll be cops in the woods. 
 I suppose there are cops in the woodwork! But what the hell...it's a nice night. (he starts to go) 
 I've always liked the woods at night. They're very romantic... You can hunt for truffles. It might be such fun, we'd just keep going. 
 You said "we." What about your two scenes? 
 That's true...One of them is three pages of me making a tunafish salad for an American flyer in 1917... And I've got to weigh that against losing the man I love. It's a big decision. 
 Nina, you're making me crazy. 
 I'm sorry. I'm a little crazy myself. I can't let you go and I don't even know who you are. (suddenly the dam bursts and all self-control is gone) Why are they chasing you?! What have you done? What happens to me in the woods? Will I need a bayonet too? 179C   He stands there, staring at her, his face suddenly savage. After everything, the lady is afraid of him. He picks up the duffel bag and moves for the door, then turns on her, punishing her with his words. 
 The charge was attempted murder. I bashed this cop's head in. It took the jury about two fucking minutes. It could of been worse. It could of been life. But the judge...he looked real nice at me, and said you were a damn good soldier, son...So he only gave me twenty years. No way! Enough!...You know how long I was in that prison -- nineteen months -- and then I was gone! I was gone! 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) Caught me breaking into a store...oh, not to rob it...I went there to kill the bastard who owned it... 
 Why? 
 ...Because... 179D   Suddenly the ice turns to steam. His self-control shatters like glass. There in the basement of a 100-year old hotel, before an audience of one, Cameron ERUPTS, spewing out the memory of his mortification and crucifixion...not without the silent resignation of Jesus, but with the howling rage of a mad dog...Pluto with the rabies... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...Because...it seemed like a good idea to twist his fucking head off! Said I could be his partner when I got back...lyin' son of a bitch was "real sorry things were slack..." Slack my ass...he just didn't want me hangin' around because he was bangin' my old lady. So I go down and start bangin' on his door! (he starts pounding on the mirror) 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...He's closed. It's two o'clock in the morning. I want to smash his face in and he's closed! "OPEN UP, YOU BASTARD." 
 (screaming) Your hand! 
 Bang! That bright, shiny front window went bye-bye! (reveling in his own insanity) ...Maybe he's screwin' her behind the counter...I climb in there screamin' "WHERE ARE YA? Come out here and be a man! Where are ya? Behind that counter, you son-of-a- bitch?" 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) Ya know what's behind that counter?... (the ultimate horror) ...41-DIFFERENT-KINDS-OF-ICE CREAM..." and all that fuckin' 
!... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) ...And these little Mickey Mouse faces on the walls!...with candy eyeballs!... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) I smashed that fucking fudge pot across the room, smack into that shelf full of animals...and it starts raining pussycats and monkeys and kangaroo cookies like Noah's Ark! 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) "How long should a girl wait" she says? FOR GODDAMN EVER, BITCH, THAT'S HOW LONG! 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) I picked up this fifty-pound ice cream vat...FLAVOR-OF-THE-MONTH!... ROYAL-BAVARIAN-CHOCOLATE-MIST!...and I started running with that son-of- a-bitch... 179G 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) SCOOP THAT UP YOUR ROYAL BAVARIAN 
! 
 (bellowing) It's not funny! 
 Oh, baby... 
 (through laughter) Let me go to the bathroom.   I'm gonna have an accident. 
 You'll miss the main part! Killer Cameron's ghastly crime! I was freaked out of my head! And, suddenly there's this big flashlight shining in my face. I just grabbed that goddamn ice cream bucket and slopped it...right over the guy's head! 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) (quietly) It's not funny. It wasn't him. It was a cop. I got out of there like a shot. I didn't know he was knocked out. How the hell did I know he was gonna lay there all night with his head in the ice cream? 
 (suddenly serious) Oh, my God. He died? 
 No, he's in the hospital. 
 Oh, no. 
 Oh, yes.   That ice cream's goddamn cold! (struggling for a proper description) His nose...it froze and his ear froze, see...and... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) (indignantly) No, it's terrible!...He lost the tip of his nose and his ear lobe... 
 CAMERON (CONT'D) I'll tell ya, it's a bad year to mess with cops. You get the FBI screaming down on your ass... 
 (through the door) Oh, God. Too late...Thanks a lot! 
 (softly) ...If we woke up Eli and told him about the ice cream...would he forgive me and call off the stunt?... 180    INT.   GARAGE - PRE-DAWN 
 How the hell d'ya open this thing? 
 (O.S.) Sorry, folks, it's locked. 
 We know it's locked.   Would you open up for us? 
 Can't...not 'til seven o'clock.   Mr. Cross's orders. 
 (the actress) I'm sure Mr. Cross will understand when you tell him that Miss Franklin had a sudden desire for Swedish pancakes for breakfast and this gentleman had a sudden desire to keep me company...I'm Nina Franklin, the star of the film. 
 Pancake house don't open 'til eight. 
 That's all right, we'll find some place. 
 Town's closed up pretty tight this time of night. 
 Then we'll drive to Cape Long. 
 Ya'll never get through the roadblocks. 
 Why not? 
 Chief's orders. Mr. Cross didn't want any members of the company leavin' town tonight. Guess he wanted everybody good and rested for the last day. (he grins) Figure it's no secret about the Chief hopin' this is the last day... 
 (fiercely) Are you telling me that if I decide to take a drive at any time of the day or night or whenever I damn please, I need Mr. Cross's permission? Mr. Cross does not control me or anyone else, including this gentleman and he does not control the public roads! 
 No, but the police do. I'll wake Mr. Cross up and ask him if you want, but it's an awful hour. Should be somebody in the hotel kitchen by now. I'll get 'em to rustle somethin' up for you. Maybe not pancakes, but eggs, if you want it. 
 I think the lady had her heart set on pancakes, but thanks. 
 Okay. You change your mind, call... I'll be around. 
 I can't believe it...He knows. The son-of-a-bitch knows whatever I'm thinking. I'm beginning to feel like something that Sam wrote! I'm not real. I'm some jerk American flyer from World War I who has to go over a bridge and die because the goddamn script says so! It's crazy...I'm trapped in his goddamn story. If somebody lost that page, I'd be fine. If he crossed it out and wrote something else like -- "At the last moment, he veers the big car from the railing--then goes speeding on to live happy ever after..." (he looks at the Duesenberg appraisingly, then grins as a plan starts to form) ...How about that?! Empty road, me out there all alone, the crew 'way back, breathless as I approach the bridge. And then..."Hey, what happened?!" A fucking rewrite's what happened! I'll have a fifteen- minute jump on them before they figure out they're shooting a new version! 
 ...And what about the love story? What happens to the Austrian girl? People will leave the movie feeling terrible...I know! She goes with him! 
 How? 
. 
 In here. 
 
 No...look... (she climbs in) See how big it is? Comfortable, too...Honestly, honey, it's a better ending. 
 (firmly) Nina, get out of the trunk. 
 And what happens in the morning? Do I show up on the set in my little pink pinafore and say, "Hi, Eli. Where's my hug and kiss...?" How do I do that now? 
 (sternly) ...Get out of the trunk. 
 ...Or should I trot up to my room to catch a couple of winks and cuddle up with a dozen sleeping pills? 
 (angry) It's my nightmare...Stay out! This isn't the time to solve your neurotic problems! I'm trying to stay alive! 
 (shouting back) So am I. And I never claimed not to have "neurotic problems!" 
 (interrupting) Oh, for Christ's sake... 
 
 (urgent whisper) Nina, please, there's somebody coming. Get out of the trunk... 
 A.D. (CONT'D) Chuck...Chuck Barton, where do you want the Duesenberg? 
 A.D. (CONT'D) Mr. Cross, please. The camera crew's ready for a setup. 
 The R-35 in the chopper on the maxi- mount, the underwater Imo in the Duesenberg... 
 I'll hide an Arri with a zoom up on the hill. 
 And what about number four? Maybe hang a platform under the bridge with the speed camera? 
 (admiringly) Heavy...From the top of the screen right into the water...squish. 183   ANGLE ON THE DUESENBERG 
 (to A.D.) Have 'em touch up that corner of the section. It looks phony as hell. 
 (into walkie-talkie) Where's the chopper? We'd kinda like to have you join us...if you can find the way. 
 (over walkie-talkie) Fifteen minutes, Eli. We're just warming her up. 
 All right, everybody...may I have your attention, please? 
 (thru speaker) This is the one and only Duesenberg we have in stock. When that car goes into the water, we're not going to see it again. So, once the action starts, no matter what happens, keep it going. 
 ELI (CONT'D) ...We must have this shot. Therefore, I now order no camera to jam and no cloud to pass before the sun. 
 (yelling) How ya doin', soldier? Where'd ya learn to do without sleep? 
 How do you guys get accident insurance? Must cost you an arm and a leg... (chuckling) ...that's a good one. 
 You're lookin' real strong, kid. Is that loose change I hear jinglin' or are they beginnin' to grow? 
 (flatly) Wanna check? 
 C'mon, lemme show you this truck... 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) I'm sending it on ahead. During the gag, it's gonna be comin' down the road towards you when you get to the bridge. 
 CHUCK (CONT'D) Relax, what does it change? I'm only tellin' you so you don't buzz off into space when you see 'em. They'll be shooting at you and that's what's supposed to make you go into the river. 
 Hey, you ever get those pancakes? 
 ...My boys...Can't recognize 'em. How could I say no, after all the crap they've taken because of this company the last six weeks? 
 (good-naturedly) Yeah, a cop'll do anything for fifty bucks, even be an actor. 
 These guns are kinda modern for World War I. 
 (to Chuck) You want me to drive back and get the old ones. 
 (deciding) Shit...forget it. How much'll they see from the helicopter? 
 (starting back to Duesenberg) Hope those are really blanks. 
 (chuckling) Don't say so on the box! 
 No need to look... If she loves you, she's still there. If she doesn't...then it doesn't really matter...does it? 
 TECHNICIAN'S VOICE Hey, Lucky, we need you! 
 TECHNICIAN (CONT'D) Get in, will ya? 
 TECHNICIAN (CONT'D) (leaning in passenger's side) Look straight ahead, can you see that red light out of the corner of your eye? 
 TECHNICIAN (CONT'D) That'll let you know when the film's running, so be sure you don't turn your face to the camera. 
 TECHNICIAN (CONT'D) All right, bump it once. (to Cameron) Does it work? 
 TECHNICIAN (CONT'D) (yells O.S.) Bump it again. (looks back into the car) 
? 
 (by reflex) What? 
 Cameron? 
 JAKE (CONT'D) (startled) Hey, they wanna know is the CAMERA ON? 
 (yelling) That crazy bastard!     Who cued him? 
 (cold; urgent) Roll! Roll the film! Move your asses -- I want that shot! 
 (shouts) Speed! 193   INT.   DUESENBERG 
 (exultantly) Yahooo! (toward Nina in the trunk) Hang on to everything, baby, we're on our way! You okay? 
 (screaming) Shoot this, Eli! 
 (screaming) Ninaaa-a-a-a-a-!!! 
 Take a belt. Don't be stingy. 
 Those guys down there the whole time? 
 I can't hear ya...they're clangin' too loud. 
 (shouts across the distance to Cameron) I can't come any further. What should I do? I'll get the dress all muddy and I need it for the next scene. 
 (grinning with good nature) Tunafish salad...I know. 
 (shouts) They found me five minutes after you left. I felt ridiculous. 
 (waves back) Just as well! 
 (shouts) When Eli told me you'd   changed your mind and decided to do   the stunt, at first I didn't believe   him, but I guess you really did.    I tried to find you. 
 NINA (CONT'D) (to include Eli) I'm sure glad you two made up! Boy, Lucky, were you wonderful...I guess I have to go now. See you after. 
 NINA (CONT'D) 
 (dryly) Lover, I think your circulation's back to normal. And please, next time will ya listen for the cue -- the word is "action." 
 "How!" I have always had a great compassion for your people. Long before it was popular, I felt a repugnance for General Custer. 
 ELI (CONT'D) My God, I think he's breathing. There're days I can't do anything right. I hope this doesn't screw up our relationship, your being alive and all. 
 (shaking his head) ...You sure took a hell of a chance, Eli...why didn't you just let me go last night? 
 What, with Nina in the trunk? I've got scenes to shoot with her... 
 ...All right. This morning then. Chuck could have done the stunt. 
 (thoughtfully) I knew a guy who made an anti-war film. When they previewed it in his hometown, army enlistment went up six hundred percent. I'm making this film trying to convince the whole world that maybe there's a better way to get home for Thanksgiving...and I can't even convince one dumb kid with a tattoo...I couldn't have you run around paranoid the rest of your life thinking I was trying to kill you. 
 Paranoid? 
 Hey Sam, the kid just licked your screenplay. He named the disease. 
 Yeah, what? 
 ...a social disease, very common. 
 ...like gonorrhea... 
 You're close. It's spread the same way...by screwing your fellow man. 
 I hope you find an easier cure. That was the hardest thousand bucks I ever made. 
 You guys want a ride back? 
 (moving toward the helicopter) No, we're goin' in the chopper. 
 (considers it) Thanks, Eli, but that looks too dangerous. I think I'll ride with Jake. Good luck with the picture. 
 (yelling to Cameron) Don't miss that plane, Burt! 
 (leaning across Cameron to yell at Eli) He better not! Any member of your company found within city limits after five o'clock tonight, gets shot on sight! 
 ...What thousand bucks?   That stunt paid six-fifty. 
 (surprised) Chuck told me a thousand... 
 
 (getting upset) A thousand! 
 (relenting) Okay, seven-fifty.      Split the difference... 
 Bullshit!   You're trying to screw me!! 
 (exasperated) Christ! You're doing it again! (striding toward the chopper, shouting) Sam! This paranoid little bastard still doesn't understand your damn screenplay! 
 (shrieking) That's your big problem, Eli! You use people! I want my money, a thousand bucks! 
 (to Cameron) Six-fifty!! (to Sam) Rewrite the battle scene and let the tank run him over! The stunt pays six-fifty! 
 
