 V.O. There's two kinds of people in this world when you boil it all down. You got your talkers and you got your doers. 
 V.O. Most people are just talkers. All they got is talk. But when all's said and done, it is the doers who change the world. And when they do that, they change us. That's why we never forget them...So, which one are you? Do you just talk about it? Or do you stand up and do something about it? Because believe you me all the rest of it is just coffee house bullshit. 
 Looks like a storm's comin'. 
 Aye. 
 M V.O. Peace, they say, is the enemy of memory. So it had been for my boys. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) For some time now, their past had felt like a dream to them...faded and worn. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) And then suddenly, as if not a day had passed...it was back. I could see it in their eyes. 
 M V.O. I could feel it, heavy in their presence. Something calling them back. 
 M V.O. "And they cried out, How long O'Lord dost thou not judge and revenge our blood upon them that dwell on the earth?" 
 M V.O. And God said, "All will fear the wrath of the lamb. For the great day of their reckoning hath come." 
 M "And they that holdest my name shall come with the shaking of the earth and the roiling of the oceans." 
 Something's happened. 
 #1 There is no new information on the victim found slain this morning inside Trinity Church. As you can see the size of the crowd here has increased substantially over the last couple of hours. People are demanding answers as to how a priest could be murdered in a church. But perhaps more shocking, we have confirmed that the body was ritualized with pennies in the eyes. Many remember this as the grisly calling card of the prolific vigilante killers known as the Saints, who went on a murder spree here in Boston. 
 #1 V.O. A rampage that ended six years ago, when the Saints brazenly walked into open court... 
 REPORTER #1 V.O. (CONT'D) ...and executed Mafia Don, Poppa Joe Yakavetta before a courtroom of terrified witnesses, then simply disappeared without a trace. Grainy, unclear security footage of three men walking the court halls, two in heavy black jackets, one in a trench... 
 REPORTER #1 V.O. (CONT'D) The now legendary security camera footage from that harrowing day, our singular tiny glimpse of these infamous and controversial killers. 
 #1 As police have yet to confirm the Saints' possible involvement, the ominous question hangs heavy in the air. "Are they back?" 
 The priest.    Did they release his name? 
 No. But I made a few calls, still got some friends in the diocese there. McKinney. Father Douglas McKinney. 
 SIBEAL (CONT'D) You knew him? 
 Knew of him. Everybody did. A regular Mother Theresa. Youth hostels, soup kitchens. Even made it into the newspapers sometimes. 
 Listen boys. I think it's best that ya just stay put and we'll try ta figure out what... 
 We need to keep our heads, here.   It's probably not even them. 
 We're not fucked. 
 Now's not the time to panic, Green beans! 
 #1 Her E.T.A. is ten minutes. 
 Special Agent Eunice Bloom, 32 years old. Smecker plucked her right out of class at Quantico. 
 She was assigned to OCD two years back. She can shoot a gun, set three course records during her training. 
 She is also an authority on the Saints case. Which means Smecker must have walked her through it. 
 M Naw...I'm in no condition.   I'd just slow 'em down. 
 Well, are ya at least gonna try ta talk them out of this? 
 SIBEAL (CONT'D) We don't even know what this is yet! Somebody could just be tryin' ta get away with murder here! 
 M Aye. Only there's about a thousand easier ways ta do that. Trust me. Someone's callin' them out, Sibeal. Ya kill a priest in a church and make it look like they did it. Bring 'em back with a vengeance. Don't know who. Don't know why. But someone thinks he's real fuckin' clever. Only one problem with his little plan. 
 What's dat? 
 M It worked. 
 Jesus Christ! D'er's too much we don't know and if you're won't at least try ta talk some sense into them, I will! 
 SIBEAL (CONT'D) Exactly what do you intend to do? 
 Every last motherfucker that had anything to do with it. 
 Feds love to pull the divide and conquer routine. We hard line her. Stick together on this. Agreed? 
 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) And you must be Greenly. Smecker always said you were the funny one. 
 Special. 
 You see there's a "special" before my "agent." If we are going to address each other formally, I'd prefer if you popped it in there. Makes me feel, I don't know...special. Of course, I'd hoped we could be a little more personable. In fact, I'd like you to call me Eunice. 
 O'kay, Eunice. I don't see why the fuck the Fed is... 
 Whoa, whoa, "fuck?" This isn't a "fuck" situation, is it? I can see a "God Damn" or two but why skip all the way to "fuck" right off the bat? Let's start slow and work our way up to it. 
 What is the Fed's interest in this? The detectives harden, brick wall.     Eunice furrows her brow. 
 Their interest, Detective, is capturing the men responsible for the murders of 22 of Boston's finest criminals. Y'see public perception is that these boys stepped in, did our jobs for us and then disappeared into thin air as we fecklessly searched for them. The FBI tends to take exception to such things. They coulda sent anyone. They sent me. Why do you think that is? 
 (BEAT) Well, since we've broken the "Fuck Barrier," allow me to be blunt. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) It is because I am so fucking smart that I make smart people feel like retards. Now, we seem to be getting off on the wrong foot here. I'd appreciate a bit of cooperation. Let's chalk it up to paying respect to the memory of a dearly departed mutual friend. A man who taught me everything I know. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Lovely. (re: crowd) Now what's with the circus? 
 The victim was killed late last night. When people gathered for morning mass, they found the front entrance chained and padlocked. A locksmith came out, cut the chain and surprise, surprise. Cell phones. Half of them called the cops. Half of them called the media. But regardless...word's out. 
 And it looks like that's just the way somebody wanted it. What say we scrape the shit off this cow's ass, fellas? Detective Greenly? Escort a lady onto the crime scene? 
 GREENLY (CONT'D) Do you want a cup of coffee or something? 
 Never touch the stuff. 
 It wasn't them...but I'm sure you boys already knew that. 
 The two "V's." The victim and venue don't add up. 
 Let's go with the venue first. Our perpetrators are devout. They would never commit such an act on sacred ground. And as for the victim? 
 Man, I hate it when people say that. "With all due respect." Because it is inevitably followed by a disrespectful remark. I'll give you an example. With all due respect, Detective, this matter falls under whatever jurisdiction I fuckin' say it does. 
 Uh, so...let's just...what can you tell us about the shooters? 
 Shoo-ter. Singular. And I can tell you that he is left handed and how shall I put this delicately...? He's a short bastard. 
 I'll show you what I'm talking about. 
 Detective Greenly, you're the victim. 
 Very well, David. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) The Saints' signature stance. Copley Plaza Hotel four years ago. Two men of identical height put Yuri Petrova on his knees and each dropped iron to the back of his head. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Eyes front, David. The position of the victim and the angles produced by the killers' stance created a unique scenario. The bullets criss crossed in the skull and exited the eye sockets. Here, this did not occur. The rounds moved on a straight trajectory through the back of the victim's head and out the front. Which happens when... 
 ...one guy's holding two guns to the back of your head. 
 One guy. 
 Now, the victim falls forward.   If you please, David. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) The killer approached the body from the left side... (Eunice approaches) ...and flipped him to the right. 
 Left handed. 
 Yep, southpaw. 
 The Saints were later determined to be five foot eleven inches tall. It's just dumb luck that the Russian and McKinney are the exact same height. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) The rounds exited Petrova's eye balls. Here they came out the lower cheek. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Three, four inches below the eyes. 
 The killer posed as a late night confessor. Once the victim entered the booth the killer had him isolated. No escape. Short stuff exits his confessional and kicks in the door of the priest's chamber... 
 V.O. ...leaving a crescent shaped indentation which indicates that this cowboy was wearing a boot with a pronounced heel. 
! 
 Gave him a couple inches. We're looking at about five foot five, gentlemen. 
 Wicked. 
 They're brawling in the hold!    Better get your bets in now! 
 Why are his hands chained? 
 Romeo's fast, man. He says the Frenchman can't lay a hand on him. 
 But he can't hit him back. 
 That's the bet. He's got to last five minutes. 
 (to Connor, English) This guy's fuckin' crazy. The brothers whip out money and give it to the Sailor. 
 You should never fight a Mexican, Frenchy. Pound for pound, the toughest mother fuckers on earth. Know why? We like pain. We like it, Pierre. I mean think about it, "tabasco sauce." What kinda fucked up people would even invent that shit? 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) Don't be scared. Remember, I can't hit you. I ain't gonna hit ya. (avoiding blows) Ain't gonna hit ya. Ain't gonna... 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) Ooooo.    Found the loophole, bitch! 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) Aughtta be a lawyer! Got the 'fine print on y'ass! Pursuant to! Pro bono! Pari Pasu! I'll knock you out on contingency, mother fucker. 
 Oh, shit.   FIRE! FIRE! The brothers emerge from the shadows, cutting them off. 
 #1 Out of zee way! 
 Whoa!    Uh, merci, uh, si vous plait. 
 Just protectin' our investment.   Ya made us fifty bucks. 
 Oh, thank, God. Irish, huh?   Finally some class. I'm Romeo. 
 (shaking hands) Connor. 
 Murphy.   Why were you yellin' "fire"? 
 I heard you were supposed to on t.v. 
 That's if you're gettin' raped. 
 Oh...I'd be more inclined to go with something like, "THAT DOESN'T GO THERE, 
!" 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) We saved your entire fucking country in World War Two! Gee...thanks for the statue! 
 (SUBTITLES) Who dares trespass in the house of God? 
 V.O. People are still in shock as Father McKinney was a beloved local cleric. 
 So, there it is. I want everyone to feel free to share their thoughts. 
 #1 I can't believe none of us were consulted on this! The disrespect! We'd have never okay'd such a thing!   A priest! It's an infamita! 
 #2 Yeah! Are we not Catholics, for Christ fucking sakes?! 
 #3 And just for simple revenge?! There's no business in it! You've put us all at risk here! The cops could be all over us! 
 #4 Forget the cops! What about these Saints fuckers?! These guys were long gone! And now you're trying to bring the devil right back to our doorstep?! 
 Six years ago, with the backing of an adoring public, these vigilante fucks put my father on his knees and executed him...in public. Mi Patrigno, a blood relative and benefactor to all of you. Poppa Joe made you rich and his murder remains un-revenged... 
 CONCEZIO (CONT'D) This too, is infamita. These homicidal maniacs nearly wiped this family out. It's taken a lot of time to build ourselves up again, brick by brick. And now that we've re-acquiesced our original power, can we really afford to have these guys pop out of the woodwork someday and try to finish the job when we least expect it? Now, for those of you who have forgotten, let's recap. These fuckers walk into rooms full of gangsters... (denotes surroundings) Outnumbered, outgunned. They kill everyone...and leave. 
 CONCEZIO (CONT'D) You think I don't know that each one of you's been waking up in night sweats over this the last couple years? These sons of bitches prison fucked us with no lube, wiped their dicks on our drapes and walked away! And we been living in silent fear ever since. Oh, we don't talk about it. Rape victims often don't. But it's there. Knowing they're still out there, somewhere. Thinking...what if? 
 #4 Concezio is right. Pretending you don't got a problem don't solve nothing. 
 Thank you, Doctor Phil. So, let's take a moment to look at the serendiplious, diperous, serendip... 
 (FRUSTRATION) ...type situation we find ourselves in here. There's a good chance they'll show. No catching us with our pants down this time. We can deal with them proactivitously. The cops were embarrassed by these guys too. With a second bite at the apple, they got every reason in the world to crank up the heat. And as for their doting public. I'd imagine they're gonna lose a few fans. 
 The prodigal son, huh?   He wants us, he's fuckin' got us. 
 But why would he do something so public? 
 Think about it. People figure we did it. Makes it more likely someone will drop a dime. Way easier to get to us in prison, isn't it, now. 
 But how would anyone recognize us? 
 You don't remember those sketches on the news channel? 
 Shit. That's right. Y'know, every time they show those composites on TV and then they catch the guy, it looks nothin' like him. But ours? 
 Just our luck. We get Leonardo fuckin' Divinci as a sketch artist. 
 Maybe we should dye our hair. 
 What? 
 Yeah. These guys are always dyin' their hair. You know, like in "The Fugitive." It's covert and shit. 
 What color would you dye it? 
 I don't know...lighter, I guess. 
 Y'mean...blonde? 
 I didn't say that! 
 California, surfer boy, gay, gay blonde?! 
 I'm warnin' ya! 
 Just keep your hands off my ass back there and, "stay gold, Pony Boy." 
 Fuck you! 
 
! 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) You motherfucker! 
 Serves ya right! 
 Oh, shit. 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) I know who you are. You guys are the fuckin'.... 
 
! 
 Oh, this is so fucking cool, man. I'm from Boston. I love you guys. Shit, everybody does! I mean, holy fucking shit! Maybe I could get in on this, you know? Bring some La Raza ta this thing. Spice it up a little. Hey, is it true you guys say a prayer before you grease somebody? 
 And an awesome wailing was heard throughout heaven... 
 ...as the terrible hand of the Lord struck upon the earth. 
 And as Almighty God created you...he now calleth you home. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) Ooops. Busy signal. We'll hafta calleth back. 
 Let's have a shot while we're waitin'. 
 That shit was NOT funny, man! 
 ROMEO (CONT'D) Oh, thank you, Jesus. Thought I greased my drawers. 
 No. 
 But I got conex all over Bean Town. Romeo'll hook you up like a tow truck! 
 No. 
 Why not?! 
 We don't hafta give you reasons. Forget it. 
 It's because I'm Mexican, isn't it! 
 How dare you, sir, insinuate such a thing? The fact that you're a greasy spic's got nothin' ta do with it. 
 I'm gonna let you have that one. Look. I can do this. It's not rocket science. You two find bad guys doing bad shit and you kill them, right? 
 It's not that simple. 
 Yes it is. 
 S'pose you're right. I'd sorta hoped we were a little more artistic than that. 
 Well, you ain't. Can't you guys see it? This shit's fate, man. Like preordained type shit. Mea fucking Culpa! Why do you think you just happened to be in that hatchway today? 
 Oh, don't start gettin' all super fuckin' natural on us. We saw those guys goin' in there! 
 Ah, ha! That's what you say. I say it's because Jeeeeesus wanted it that way! 
 Oh, no. 
 Fine. Then what exactly do you intend to do when you hit U.S. soil? 
 We'll go after all Yakavetta's people and operations till we get to the man himself. 
 Yeah, work our way up the food chain. 
 So, what's your first gig?    What's the first thing you gonna do? 
 Well, I don't suppose we have a succinct plan, y'know, per se. 
 Yeah. It's not fully developed yet, y'know, as it were. 
 You two need to chill in the green room, sip on some Pellegrinos and let your manager handle the details. And you better get my Cub Scout badge ready. Cuz if you want to kick Yakavetta in the nuts, let him know you're in town...Romeo's got an ace in the hole for you. 
 I think it's disgusting.   I wish they'd have stayed gone. 
 And that's all she wrote. Everything points in the same direction. 
 Why would Yakavetta want them back here? Him of all people. 
 To have them executed. Revenge. Oldest motive in the book. 
 Well...it's a theory. 
 More than just a theory, Chief. 
 C.I.'s came back. Cold hits all around. Concezio Yakavetta and his six Capo Regime, all blood relatives, have disappeared. 
 So? 
 And word's been put to all his lieutenants that the Saints are to be taken out, on sight. 
 Look, I been stone walling the media on this thing but the Mayor's been riding me like a rented mule here. I got half of New England thinking the Saints whacked a priest and the other half thinking their innocent. Its a powder keg. I'm talking riot gear at Celtics games, here. I could clear them of this murder, take the piss right out of this thing, keep the peace in the Commonwealth. Gimme one good reason why I shouldn't go public right now. 
 Walk with me, Chief.    Let's talk. 
 This is not good.   She's gunning for the boys hard. 
 Just calm down. 
 I understand you got a job to do, Chief. But if Yakavetta even sniffs that we're onto him, he puts a bullet in Napoleon's head, plants him at the bottom of the ocean and walks. This pint sized killer is the only thing that puts Yakavetta right in the middle of this. It is imperative that we find this man. 
 We need to figure what we're gonna do when the boys show and start doin' what they do best. Cuz that's when the shit's really gonna hit the fan. 
 What dream world did you two just slip into?! 
 DUFFY (CONT'D) Point blank! We know the boys. Is there any part of you that thinks they're are just going to let this slide? Believe this. They are either on their way...or they're already here. 
 It's been all over the papers the last two years. Yakavetta's in bed with the Chinese. They're using international shipping routes to smuggle it in. This is Little Yaka's shit. 
 Let's follow 'em down the rabbit hole, Alice. 
 You just scored a few points, Rome. 
 Well, dust off my "Members Only" jacket. (pulls set of keys) Cuz the kid has also supplied the ride! 
 I thought you said your car was inconspicuous. 
 I don't like words that got 'spic' right in the middle. Besides, it is...where I live. 
 Where's that? Pimpville? 
 Hey! I hail from a colorful people. Besides, you wouldn't know style if it pitched a tent in your ass! (looks into rear view) What do you think of the ride, Conman? 
 The only way I could be more embarrassed right now is if I was ridin' a moped. 
 Yeah...while fuckin' a fat girl. 
 Yeah...rollin' through the gym at my high school reunion. 
 All right!   I get the fucking point! 
 O'kay, here's the plan. 
 We skin out, go ta Doc's for a shot of Irish. We're home in time for tacos. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) What? 
 Well, it's...uh...you know, it's... 
 It's genius. I can even drive an F- lift, man. Got my class "D" license and everything. 
 Now, dat's the spirit. 
 I need a gun. 
 What the fuck? I'm in on this shit, man! I'm working here! 
 You can consider yourself a fuckin' pledge until we say different. 
 Can I consider myself your girlfriend, too? 
 That's what you get.   Is there a problem? 
 (beat, fuming) It's fine. 
 Don't worry, Rome.   Shit like this builds character. 
 Yeah, the character of a little bitch. 
 Now, dat's just unprofessional. 
 MURPHY (CONT'D) What do we think? 
 I think Yakavetta murdered a good man just to send us a message. 
 Well...let's send him one back. 
 I don't know. 
 Your boss, John Kuntsler called. Tells me you got a problem with authority. 
 Absolute horse pucky, Chief. Unfortunately, authority's developed a problem with me. 
 And what's that? 
 Well, y'see, I am currently in possession of a vagina. 
 Oh, Jeez, that's not... 
 So you spoke to Kuntsler.      Anything else. 
 If it's confirmed that the Saints are back and too many bodies start showing up with pocket change... (re: his eyes) ...he's gonna pull you and step in. 
 Message delivered, Chief. 
 Listen.    I'll fend him off.    Just work fast. 
 It's them. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) A wise man once told me. Where a man's actions are firmly bound to an unshakable faith one's worst nightmares become sudden, terrifying reality. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Y'can almost smell the brimstone, can'tcha? 
 Oh, this was a plan that fell to pieces. A lot here doesn't make sense which is why it makes perfect sense. I believe things in our fair little city just got downright biblical. 
 You didn't have to bash me in the skull. 
 Sorry, man. We got a plan going, here. Technically, I was supposed to knock you out. 
 Christ! You got a gun. You could have just pointed it at me and said SCRAM! 
 
! 
 You got it! 
 So, let's not let this one, small incident get in the way of... 
 Shut up and get behind the fuckin' wheel! 
 Well, at least the plan is off to a winning start. 
 Go fuck y'rself. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) It's heroin. 
 How the fuck would you know? 
 Fuck you.    I know shit. 
 Jesus!    What the fuck's he doin'?! 
 He can't see where he's goin'! 
 Shit!    Tell him to go left, now! 
 Go left!    Go left! 
 What?! 
 I can't fuckin' believe I let you talk me into this! This is a stupid plan! 
 I didn't notice you throwin' out any ideas, ya creative asshole! 
 Fuck you! 
 Hey!   What's goin' on in there?! 
 Jesus Christ! Tell him to stop! 
 
 And shepherds we shall be, for Thee, my Lord, for Thee. Power hath descended forth from Thy hand, that our feet may swiftly carry out Thy command. So, we shall flow a river forth to Thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be. 
 BROTHERS (CONT'D) In Nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti. 
 Yeah, I heard of this rodeo clown. Duffy approaches, hands Eunice a tiny bullet in a baggy. 
 Ballistics just dug it out. 
 A twenty two? You gotta be kidding me. That's like bringing a knife to a gunfight. 
 I don't know. Ballistics is reading three shooters. This is one of them. 
 Well, I'm having a hard time believing that one of the three most lethal individuals on the planet just switched over to bird shot. 
 Yeah, maybe somebody's trying to eliminate some competition here. 
 No, sir. It's them. But we just might have ourselves a change in the line up, here. 
 Hell, we've just been called up to the big show. We are tracking multiple perpetrators, gentlemen. The plan? We keep our ear to the ground and try to figure out where Yakavetta's hiding. Napoleon. We find him and flip him. And as for the Saints...I'm gonna have me a face to face with these boys one way or the other. 
 #3 Law enforcement has confirmed the Saints are back! 
 #1 V.O. It's confirmed. The five drug traffickers all involved in the heroin trade were victims of the Saints. 
 #2 V.O. ...several having close ties to the Yakavetta Crime Family, confirming the long suspected merger of the Chinese Triad and the Mafia. 
 
! 
 DOC (CONT'D) Jesus, Mary and Joseph! I saw da nuh, nuh, news channel. Are ya boys all right?! 
 Sound as an Irish pound, Doc. 
 Is it too late for a shot? 
 Oh, the Lord told me you'd be comin! He said, "Doc, they're comin" and I was ta get everting ready. So I did. Everting's ruh, ruh, ruh, it's all set. 
 Uh, hem! 
 Oh, this is our Mexican. 
 (shaking hands) How are ya, lad? They call me...FUCK!...ASS! 
 Nice to meet you, Fuck Ass, I'm Romeo. 
 The place used ta be an old speak easy in the forties. I only use it for storage, now. 
 This is so fucking cool. 
 Nobody even knows it's up here. You'll be safe. 
 (POINTS) You can get in and out the fu-fu-fire escape. 
 You know what this is? This is our hide out, man! We got a hide out! 
 What are you, fucking five years old? 
 Hey, Rome, we got sheets and broomsticks. You could build yourself a fort. 
 Fuck the both of you! 
 
 (CONCENTRATION) Not this time, ya little shit. 
 We'll see, old man. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) Would somebody please come over here and... 
 
! 
 ...me up the... 
 
! The boys and Romeo burst into hysterics.   Doc rages. 
 Oh, yeah.     Someone's been eating their Wheaties.     Yeah, get after it, girl. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) 
! 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) You fucking bitch! 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Whoa, whoa, whoa. 
 What did you just call me? 
 Who are you? 
 Why, I'm a lady, George. That fact alone demands a certain amount of... (cocks hammer back) ...cordiality. 
 I'm, I'm sorry I called you that. 
 Well, how courteous of you to apologize. Courtesy is so important. Don't you agree? 
 Y, yeah...I'm with that. 
 Good.   Now sit your fat ass down. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) (with intent) Where is...Concezio Yakavetta? 
 I don't know. 
 Yeah. There's a lot of stuff you don't know, Hoss. For instance, why aren't you safely tucked away in some ivory tower with all the other big wigs, sucking on cannoli and shrimp cocktail? Why are you the one he left on the streets, George? 
 Someone's gotta run our legitimate businesses. Someone's gotta make sure that... 
 Someone's gotta chum the waters. 
 That's bullshit and I ain't saying another fucking word to you. 
 Good. Then you can just listen. The jig is up. We know Concezio had that priest killed. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Oh, surprise, surprise. Another thing you don't know, I reckon. But why would he tell you? You and your guys on the streets, you're his bait. Y'all just got thrown into a meat grinder. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Gorgeous George, huh? Expendable George is more like it. 
 (BEAT) 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) By the by, you got a pretty nice ass for a fat man. 
 V.O. You wanna find something in Boston that don't wanna be found you go to the Oracle, ese. My Uncle Cesar is hooked up with the Underground. 
 Word is, Yakavetta's gunning for you boys hard. The whole city's on edge. I even heard he posted a reward like Jesse James style and shit. Any of his guys that take you out gets his palm crossed, two hundred and fifty grand. 
 Whew.   A quarter of a mill for us? 
 Us? What the fuck are you talking about "us?" 
 Uncle, why do you have to disrespect me in front of them?! 
 Cool it, Mr. Big Shot! A year ago you were washing my pots and pans! 
 Well, I don't wash fucking pots anymore! I'm part of this, Uncle! 
 Hey! This isn't my first bar-b-que! Now shut up and stop interrupting! Let me talk to them and I'll figure out whether your in on this or in your own fucking fantasy world! 
 He's in.   All the way in. 
 Is my nephew pulling his weight? 
 Mucho corazon. 
 Gorgeous George is running the show for Little Yaka. Drugs, prostitution, sharking, the whole cha cha. If anybody knows where he is, it's that fat fucking pedico. I'll put it out on the wire. 
 Hey, uh, maybe we should... 
 Shut up.   Romeo's crying. 
 You fucking assholes! 
 #5 That shipment of "H" was gonna square our books for six months. Shit. 
 #6 We always bounce back. Besides, look at the bright side. Better the chinks than us, right. 
 #5 I guess.  Like the boss said... (Concezio impression) "This is war. There's gonna be casuwalities." 
 Oh! Like the Roman Empire in here! Where's all the concubines and shit? 
 #3 George.    What gives, here? 
 I need to see the Boss, right away. 
 #4 Jimmy the Gofer! 
 #2 (to Jimmy) Il cortina. 
 Get over here! 
 Whoa! 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) Uh.   Hey, Boss! I just came by to...! 
 Push the talk button, numb nuts. 
 Oh. (he does) Can you here me? Over. 
 I can hear you fine, Smokey and the Bandit. Now, what the fuck are you doing here? 
 Everything's in motion. All our guys are gunning for these Jesus Freaks. I figure, no need for me to be on the streets no more. So, which room do I take, eh? 
 You stupid motherfucker! I told you, you're on the streets till this is over! Now get the fuck outta here! 
 CONCEZIO (CONT'D) And don't come back here till I tell you to, you fat fucking waste of space! 
 A priest.   The sick fuck. 
 And he leaves all of us on the streets holding the bag while him and his are living it up at the Taj fuckin' Majal, not a care in the world. 
 So, until the Saints get popped, we're all lambs to slaughter? 
 Yeah! And he don't care how many of us they wipe out in the meantime! 
 What do you need me to do, Skipper? 
 Spread the word to all the brugliones. No bullshit. From your mouth to their ears. 
 Everyone? North and South?   That could get a little dicey. 
 Fuck their old grudges. All of them are in this, like it or not. Tell them everything we discussed. 
 Even the panic room thing? 
 Sure. 
 Good. That's a nice ice breaker. They'll get a kick outta that. I didn't even know those things were real. I thought they made that shit up for that movie? With that brawd and that kid? With those guys in that house? 
 Panic Room? 
 Naw, the other one. 
 Stop fuckin' around! This is serious shit, here! Tell 'em we meet tomorrow night. I'll call you with the location. 
 (holds up baggy) What's this? 
 The results on all 864 prints found at the scene. All match churchgoers or clergy but one. The partial on the priest's watch is still unidentified. 
 That's horse shit. Everyone gets printed nowadays. They're inking up snotgobblers in kindergarten, now. 
 
 GREENLY (CONT'D) What?!   I didn't say nothing! 
 McKinney wore his watch on his left hand. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Where was this found exactly?! 
 Right here, off his left elbow.   Where are you going with this? 
 Dolly, get on the phone! Find out which wrist he wore his rosary on and if he was wearing it that night! Duffy, run that partial through DMV! David put it through INTERpol! Just get an I.D.! Now! Come on! Vamoose! 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) You took your glove off, didn'tcha Cowboy. Now, why would you go and do a damn fool thang like that? 
 What the...did they use his mug shot? 
 What?   No. 
 You remember how he told us he was embarrassed cuz the guy had to hold up all his long hair behind his head? 
 Aye. 
 Look at that. 
 MURPHY (CONT'D) That's an arm. 
 Oh...that's fuckin' harsh. 
 Y'er one of a kind, Roc. 
 So, am I as good as this guy, or what? 
 You, sir, are no David Della Rocco. 
 Whoa!  Whoa! Whoa! Holy shit! (beat, recognition) HOLY SHIT! You're the Saints! I'm Roy, it's an honor. Huge fan! 
 We're developin' quite the cult following in the old neighborhood. 
 Que pasa. 
 I got that info you wanted, mijo. 
 V.O. The place is Tropical Tan on Bunker Hill. It's where the fat fucking juedo gets his fake bake at. He's got a secret appointment. Once a week, never misses. Eight o'clock, tonight. 
 We got him. 
 (re: Romeo) Who's this, your new sidekick? (extends hand) Pleased to meet you. I'm Roy. 
 How would you like me to sidekick you in the ass, Roy? 
 
 I, I didn't mean to... 
 I'm sick of this shit! I've been breaking my balls, here and I get second banana billing! I... 
 I, I, I. There is no "I" in team, ya selfish prick. 
 Yeah?!   Well, there's an "I" in "Fuck you! 
 Lovely voice. We'd like ya ta sing for us. What do ya say? George struggles and nods. Murphy hops off. George spills out, hot pink Speedos. On all fours and breathing heavy... 
 It's getting hard to be a fucking gentleman of leisure, here! 
 We want the shooter you motherfuckers used on that priest. 
 I don't know who it is. 
 GEORGE (CONT'D) It's the truth! Concezio didn't tell no one what he was doing cuz he knew nobody would have o'kay'ed it! The shooter's an independent contractor! That's all I know! 
 Where's Yakavetta hidin'? 
 The Prudential! Fortieth floor!   Jesus Christ! 
 You meeting someone tonight, George? 
 Yeah.   The brugliones. 
 The what? 
 Yakavetta's racket chiefs. Street guys. (suddenly brightens) Your kind of guys. You could take a real bite outta crime here, huh? I could help you. 
 (re: phone) What's this? 
 Nobody forgot what you guys did to us last time. They're staying indoors. I give out the location an hour before. 
 My Uncle's place is closed tonight.    I got the key. 
 It's down by the docks.   Dead as a doornail at night. 
 Yeah. You could set off fourth of July fireworks in dat place and nobody would hear. How's Mexican for you, George? 
 No difference to me. I think I just shit my Speedos, anyway. 
 How do, David? 
 Lovely.   Anything else? 
 I think I'll drop in on their supper, see if I can shake them up a little. 
 No thank you, Mike Tyson.    Bye now. 
 GREENLY (CONT'D) Oh, shit. 
 Just two more to go. Uh...You guys are gonna let me go, right? 
 We'll see, won't we. 
 Jesus, this is some embarrassing shit. 
 N.S. #1 Yo, spicaroo. More nachos and mas salsa, capisce? 
 S.S. #1 Hey and I need a refill there, pepe? 
 Si, muchachos. 
 S.S. #3 Whoa!    Easy...Jesus. 
 These dagos are getting antsy and I'm getting Spicaroo'd and Pepe'd. The kid's about to go Poncho fucking Villa out there! 
 Stick it out. Waitin' on one more. 
 Are you certain? 
 Let them. If you kill the sons...the father will come. 
 The gang's all here. 
 Gimme my fucking bee bee gun. 
 Naw.   You've earned your stripes, Rome. 
 So....where's Gorgeous? 
 N.S. #2 What the fuck is going on, here? 
 S.S. #2 Where's that spic barkeep? Yo, Pepe! Where you at?! 
 S.S. #3 "Erin go brah?" What the hell does that mean? Connor and Murphy are standing 25 feet behind them. 
 It's Irish for "You're fucked." 
 Viva La Mejico, bitches! 
 Uh, I've seen the light! You guys have really turned me around on this! I'm like born again and shit! I swear! 
 (to Connor) What do ya think? Let him go? 
 We'll let God decide if you get a second chance. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) Well, praise the Lord. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) George? (George turns) All good boys go to heaven. George nods and exits. Romeo is confused as our trio gathers. Connor tosses the bullet he palmed to Romeo and he nods. 
 Now, that was, perhaps the finest example of spiritual guidance that I have ever had the good fortune ta witness. 
 Well, thank you very much.     Mysterious ways. Mysterious ways. 
 CONNOR (CONT'D) Drop the gun! Drop it! 
 Easy fellas. I'm alone. 
 He's gone. 
 Who are ya? 
 My name is Eunice Bloom...and I'm your new guardian angel. A torch was passed to me by a mutual friend, gone but not forgotten. 
 We heard about Smecker.    He was a good man. 
 Aye.   You have our condolences. 
 And you have mine. 
 
 
 Murphy. 
 Very well...Connor, Murphy. 
 Who the fuck was that guy?! 
 That, I suspect, was the shooter you boys have been looking for. 
 Fucking...what the fuck?! Who the fuck is this brawd?! And what the fuck's going on, here?! 
 Let's speed this up before your new sidekick's got to dig any deeper into his impressive vocabulary. 
 Oh, no you didn't. 
 I am an FBI agent who is controlling this investigation from within, in order to ensure that you gentlemen never see the inside of a prison cell. I am conspiring to do this with three like minded individuals who have aided you in the past. Though I have yet to inform them of my agenda because, well, girl's gotta have her fun. 
 Dolly, Duffy and Greenly? 
 The very same. 
 How are the lads? 
 Two of them are scared.   One's just horny. 
 Bet'cha I can guess which one. 
 Bet'cha can but let's save it for group. Right now, we have a big problem. 
 What's that? 
 This...simply won't do. We made a deal. The big fish step in if your body count gets too high and... (re: carnage) ...you have been very naughty boys. 
 O'kay.   Here's how it all went down. 
 A secret gathering of the Brugliones. The topic of discussion? Weak leadership and betrayal. 
 N.S. #1 Yakavetta's hiding from these Jesus Freaks and making us look like pussies. 
 S.S. #1 And he's hanging all of us out to dry to boot. 
 N.S. #2 All right.   I'll be the first to say it. 
 The enemy of my enemy is my friend. So, even with all their old vendettas... 
 N.S. #2 ...I say fuck the Yakavettas. 
 And there it is. Guess what comes next. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Red Rover.   Red Rover. 
 S.S. #2 We're taking over. 
 Ah. Easier uttered than accomplished. The North End and the South End may as well be the Hetfields and the McCoys. These fellas...they just don't get on. 
 N.S. #3 Fuck you! The North End built that racket from the ground up! 
 S.S. #3 South End's been carrying your fucking asses for years! 
 N.S. #3 15 percent?! In your dreams, asshole! 
 S.S. #3 Whoa! Just went up to twenty, fuck stick! 
 S.S. #1 You want some of this, you mutt?! 
 N.S. #1 Let's see what you got! 
 Oh, the cliche. A Mexican stand off in a Mexican restaurant. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) They cut each other to pieces...and nobody walked away. Who knows who fired first. Could have been any one of them. But somebody let it loose. (pointing to men) And duck, duck, duck... 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Goose. 
 Yakavetta's lost control of the streets. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) They're fighting over his throne.      This was not the work of the Saints. 
 GREENLY (CONT'D) You were right. Five foot five.       Gotta be the shooter. 
 Are you ready for your fifteen minutes, Sweetheart? 
 Someone maneuvered it through the system using false information during the highest alert in U.S. history. 
 You're darn tootin' he don't. 
 Something stanks like manure. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) We got someplace to be! Let's go! 
 It's time to revisit the scene of the crime. 
 37 bodies later and we're finally back where it all began. Y'ever heard of the southern expression, "We have an elephant in the living room?" 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Hope you fellas brought some peanuts. 
 You knew all along. 
 What?    Ya don't call.   Ya don't write. 
 I'm glad we got the band back together... (re: Romeo) ...even though our new bass player's kind of a retard. 
 So, where'd you learn ta shoot like that? 
 My Daddy was an old six gun shooter.      A real cowboy. 
 Guess that makes you a cowgirl, eh? Thanks. Saved our asses. 
 Don't mention it. Now, we have a little business to go over before you celebrate in earnest. 
 This is the guy? 
 That's the guy. He's a Sicilian immigrant, name of Ottilio Panza. 
 Five, five?    He's short bastard isn't he? 
 Yes...and well put. He'll be front page news in the morning but we have to assume Yakavetta already knows we've ID'd his guy. We can't give him time to 'Plan B' us. 
 We're hittin' him tomorrow night.   Dat soon enough? 
 Should be.   Where's it gonna happen? 
 The Pru. 
 Dat's where the man is so dat's where we're goin'. No guts no glory, Green Beans. 
 In fact, we could use a few extra hands...that is if you fellas can still get yer Irish on. 
 (to all) Well, you boys have fun. Connor, Murphy? Escort a lady to the door? 
 Y'sure you don't wanna hear the plan? I'm not tryin' ta brag or nothin' but this one's a real Picasso. 
 Aw, Jesus. 
 Hey. 
 School night. Got some homework to do. Besides, I'd like to critique your masterpiece with a fresh eye. 
 What is it? 
 Something ain't right with this whole thing. Panza knew you were in there tonight and he just let it happen. Didn't lift a finger. I mean, if he's working for Yakavetta, why would he stand by and just watch all his guys get taken out? 
 That is...interestin'. 
 You think maybe we got another fox in the hen house here? 
 Starting ta look that way. Somebody pushed that visa through. Could have ourselves a gen-u-ine 'Ghost in the Darkness,' here. 
 Shhhhh.   He will come. 
 Expanded my operation, since I saw ya last. Word got out who may or may not have outfitted ya. Turns out ya got quite the underground followin'. 
 Please, gentlemen. Preferred customers select from my private reserve. 
 I feel like that kid who found the gold ticket in the candy bar in "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." 
 Charlie. 
 Yeah...Charlie. (picks up gun) And I want an Oompa Loompa now, Daddy, now. 
 Full accessory packages.      I'm sure you'll find them useful. 
 I'll take these. 
 Have you been crying again? 
 Yeah!  Tears of joy! (to Dealer) How much? 
 You guys are on the house. 
 (to Romeo) Let's see. 
 What? 
 Nothin'. 
 Are you saying I look gay?! 
 No.    You just hail from a colorful... 
 (to Dealer) You don't know me. You think these make me look gay? Romeo poses.    The Dealer shrugs. 
 You look like you might have seen one up close. 
 Evidence? 
 Foolish, arrogant boy!   What have you done?! 
 That wiley old fox not as clever as we thought. Or maybe he played me from the git. Y-you think he played me? 
 Uh, Boss. Maybe you aught not to be telling me this stuff. I'm just... 
 A little sensitivity, huh? You heartless cocksucker! I need to vindicate my feelings here! I can't tell those goombas outside! They'll serve up my balls over a plate of fucking spaghetti! 
 #4 Fuck that. We got a mutiny on our hands. Every ten cent wanna be with a gun is moving on us all over town. 
 #3 Yeah and our fearless leader ain't even come out of his little pussy room yet. 
 I want each of you to call your top button man. The best you got. I want them all here tonight. We rip this city a new asshole. It's time for us to reconnoiter our strength on the streets. We seize the day starting now...Carpel Tunnel, gentlemen, Carpel Tunnel. 
 #5 Glad to see you back among the living, Boss. 
 What. 
 Nothing. 
 Out with it! What the hell's the matter with ya? 
 Nothing! It's just...this is some heavy shit. 
 Ya did fine at your uncle's place. 
 Yeah, but we're going off a new script here. I'm just having a...period of adjustment. 
 You're about to have a period of gettin' yer ass beat! 
 Hey! You two ain't the only ones rollin' with no health insurance! Just let me do my thing. I'm absorbing this. 
 This is not the time for you to be absorbin' shit! Now, if ya freeze up when you get in there just point yer gay guns at 'em and fer Christ sakes, at least try ta look cool! 
 I thought you were all hot fer dis! 
 Oh, I'm hot! I'm fucking red hot! The kid's flamin' like Matt Damon in the Grande Camens! 
 This is you. Be on time. 
 I'll be there. 
 You ready fer dis shit, my dear brother? 
 (cocking .50 cal) Let's do some gratuitous violence. 
 (to herself) On a sultry Saturday in September the Saints saved seventeen souls...try saying that five times fast. 
 (TURNS) He won't come out. 
 Special Agent Bloom! You are hereby relieved of all obligation to this investigation. 
 KUNTSLER (CONT'D) That's right, kids. This crime scene is now under the full jurisdiction of your beloved federal government. As of now, you will all report to me, Special Agent John Kuntsler. 
 KUNTSLER (CONT'D) Don't let us interrupt you. Just don't forget to turn over everything you find. We have people standing by ready to take credit for all your hard work. 
 KUNTSLER (CONT'D) So, how ya doin', Bloomy? 
 Just fine...Cunty. 
 Nice little science project you got going with these three goofballs. (re: detectives) You trying to turn them into your own little junior G-men? Well, you can put sprinkles on shit, Bloom, but it's still shit. So, you and your Keystone Cops can all go home now and let the professionals handle this? 
 Boy. I'd love to hear a gen-u-wine professional's assessment of a crime scene. How 'bout you, detectives? 
 O'kay. Seems pretty obvious. The door was broken down. We've got our point of entry. The assailants fired in this direction. (points toward windows) 
 KUNTSLER (CONT'D) Explains the windows. The victims were... 
 There are three inaccuracies in what you just said. Number one, David. 
 Number two, Dolly. 
 Number three, Duffy. 
 Trick question. There is no number three. He only fucked up twice. 
 
 (WHISTLES) Looks like Bloomy aced her science project. 
 That was just off the...I would have seen the blood thing...I haven't even had time to... 
 Why don't you let me take a crack at it, John? Won't cost you nuthin'. 
 And just why would I do that? 
 Cuz, tonight...mamma's right on time. 
 This evening's topic of discussion? Desperate times require desperate measures. 
 Desperate times require...some, you know, some desperate shit. Starting tonight, every one of you fat fucking slobs is back on the streets and earning your daily bread. 
 CONCEZIO (CONT'D) Shut the fuck up! (they obey) We got no choice. You motherfuckers better get in touch with your 'inner gangster'. It's time to knock the dust off your ball bats! You break bones! You smash heads! You do whatever you gotta do! 
 Which brings us to the relevance of our new guests. 
 (to button men) Each one of you is to stick to the guy that called you here like glue. You arm yourselves to the teeth, pick your own crews. These bible banging psychos will make an attempt. It's your job to blow their souless hearts out of their chests. 
 It's time to reclaim the streets with an iron fist. 
 We gotta take back what's ours with some sincere ironfistery. 
... 
 Let's explain the glass, now.   Why is most of it inside the room? 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Here's why...or it will be "why" in a moment. Y'see, these boys. Well, to put it simply, they tend to get reeeeal... 
 Creative!   It's a creative plan! 
 It's ridiculous! Probably based on some stupid shit ya saw in a movie! And here I am AGAIN all tyin' myself up with rope! What is the deal with you and rope?! Honestly! 
 It happens ta be a useful thing! 
 You didn't get this from a movie...did you? 
 The "Eiger Sanction," Clint Eastwood! And it worked like a fucking charm for him! 
 O'kay Lloyd Cranston of 135 Liberty Lane, apartment 3C. (shows him wallet pic) Lovely wife and kids. How old are they? Nevermind. Here's the situation, Lloyd. Me and a couple of friends of mine are fittin' to do some killin' here tonight. I'm talking bullets and blood, custom-wholesale slaughter. You following me, Lloyd-O? (Lloyd nods) Good. Now, I've run into a little snag. I need to figure out a tag line. You know, something cool to say when it's all over like..."I'll be back," but mine, y'know? I need to own this one. I think this'll help me get through the quote, unquote event. I'm going to take your gag off and you and me are going to riff a little, o'kay? Let's have fun with this. 
 I can't believe you! I'm a fucking janitor. What do I know about bullets and slaughter and shit? 
 Not riffing, Lloyd! Now, I need an "Hasta La Vista" line, toute fucking suite and you're gonna help me think of one! 
 And you can count on it like the U.S. mail. Through rain, sleet, hail or snow...something always seems to go wrong for these poor sons o' guns. 
 What the fuck? 
 Well, get it fuckin' goin' again! 
 
 OH, SHIT! 
 How much time?! 
 (looks at watch) Sixty Seconds! 
 We gotta go now! 
 What are you talking about!? 
 If we're even a few seconds late, Romeo's dead! We gotta go! (looking up) We're down thirteen stories! 
 Eleven more to go!     Ball park it! 
 One floor, two, three... 
 
 (MIFFED) The fuckin' Eiger Sanction. 
 Uh..."Take that, suckers!" 
 Not cool enough. 
 Uh, "Merry Christmas, mother fuckers!" 
 Too sacrilegious. 
 Oh God, uh, how about "Eat it!" 
 What are we at, a buffet, now? 
 Good God, man! I'm a... 
 Hang on, you might be onto something with the buffet thing, like with food, y'know? Let's brainstorm on that idea for a minute. 
 
?! 
 
 V.O. 
... 
 One...thing has always amazed me. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) How quiet it gets. You ever noticed that? It's hard to imagine that just a few hours ago, it was the God damn O.K. coral in here. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) One thang I'm gon guarantee ya... 
 We gon have us a good time... 
 ...in the old barn tonight! 
 
!!! 
 BOTH (CONT'D) So, we shall flow a river forth to Thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be. 
 BOTH (CONT'D) In Nomine Patris, e Filii, e Spiritus Sancti. 
 "Who ordered the whup ass fajita!?" 
 What? 
 Whup ass fajita? 
 Hold up, now. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) Was that the best you could do? 
 It's just...I couldn't think...I 
 Shhhhhh. (whispers in ear) Ya broke down the door, didn'tcha? 
 Ding dong, motherfucker, diiiing dong! 
 Exactly. 
 You said it. 
... 
 And that, gentlemen...is the sound of the fat lady singin'. 
 Shut up. 
 Hey! 
 Eunice!    Oh, shit!    Eunice! Greenly slams the talk button. 
 GREENLY (CONT'D) Get a hostage negotiator down here and put some stank on it! He could be in there all...touching her and shit! 
 I'm sorry!   I'm sorry!   I wasn't gonna hurt you! 
 You bet your ass you weren't. 
 Just lemme explain. I have information, like pertinent information. Ouch! Look, I was listening to you out there and that's, like, exactly what happened. That's what made me think you were the person to talk to. 
 Yakavetta had a partner, didn't he. 
 Yeah. 
 You saw this fella? 
 Yeah. It was only one time and just for a second but I think I could ID him. I don't know his name, though. Concezio always called him the "Old Man" accept one time when he called him something else, like he fucked up and I wasn't supposed ta hear it. 
 What was it? 
 He called him...the Roman. 
 Easy, David. I'm fine. C'mon gents, we're leaving. This is the Fed's problem, now. 
 Hey! What happened in there?      What was said to you, Agent? 
 You got him in custody. Ask him yourself. You're the professional. 
 I got no idea. That's just weird. The Roman? What do you think it means? 
 Feels like our ghost ta me. 
 We've all had enough excitement for one night. Let's sleep on it. 
 When's Romeo returnin' to the "hide out?' 
 Soon as he's done apologizin' to his uncle for wreckin' his restaurant. 
 And he should be sorry.   The disrespect. 
 Hold your damn horses! 
 I got nothin'! 
 One in the hole. 
 Boys! 
 Jesus Christ! 
 Doc!   Call da fuckin' ambulance! As they hold Greenly and beg him to hold on, we move to Poppa M standing over Crew Cut. Crew Cut looks up at him in awe. 
 M Where is the Old Man? 
 Just hold on. 
 Hang in there, brother.     They're comin'. 
 Da! 
 M Easy, boys. 
 What the fuck's he doin'? 
 
! Connor rushes over and grabs up the shotgun. 
 I'm gonna blow this mother fucker's brains out, right now! 
 M 
! 
 POPPA M (CONT'D) Son...Daddy's workin'. 
 POPPA M (CONT'D) Where is he? 
 (WHISPER) Come on. 
 M (pulling back hammer) Where? 
!!! 
 M I'm so sorry, boys.      This is all my fault. 
 What are ya talkin' about, Da? 
 M I was an immigrant to the U.S. in 1958. I was sixteen. I came to New York where my father, Jacob MacManus, was a cobbler. 
 POPPA M (CONT'D) Had a little shop and I was to learn the family business. Mafia was everywhere in those days. 
 M V.O. Simple extortion...protection money. But your grandfather was proud. 
 I can't help ya with dat, lads. Ya got problems with your shoes, I'd be happy to have a look, got fair prices. 
 M V.O. I just...watched. 
 Il ochio de dio! We gotta call the polizia, Noah! We gotta call somebody! 
 M V.O. I buried my father, then I buried the men who killed him. Louie, my best friend, helped me... 
 #3 Come on, kid. It was an accident. We can work dis out. Whatever you want. 
 #4 He ain't gonna do shit. (to Thug #3) I'll take two. 
 #3 What da fuck's da matter with you? Can't you see... 
 #4 I see just fine. Deal. 
 #1 (in Italian, to Louie) You're Italian, kid. Help us out here. Put one in the back of his head and you get anything you want! 
 I, I, I...am his friend. 
 #4 Fuck him and fuck his friend. Deal the cards! He ain't got the balls. 
 M V.O. It started out slowly. Just the ones who were a threat to us. 
 #1 Come on, kid. It's good for you, good for us. We'll move it right out the back of the place. 
 #2 It'll never touch you. You got the word of the Bonnavese family on that. 
 #1 What's da matter with you, eh? 
 
 #2 What are you, stupid or something? 
 M Then one day... 
 Why should we not help others who suffer these Mafia thugs? 
 M V.O. Then it began. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) Louie would pick the marks and plan everything in detail. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) And I would go in and do the jobs. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) I would execute, over and over again, those who had taken my father from me. 
 POPPA M V.O. (CONT'D) So it went for years. 
 Jesus. 
 So...how'd ya end up inside, Da? 
 M Back in '75, I did a hit, came out and the police were waitin' for me. He set me up, 25 to life. 
 Wait...why did he set you up? 
 M Can't wait ta ask him. 
 Why didn't ya flip on him? Cut down yer time? The guy fucked ya. 
 M I couldn't. 
 Why the hell not? 
 M He'd learned of the birth of my sons. 
 Do you know Louie's full name? 
 M Aye. 
 Hello. 
 It's me.   Put Eunice on. Connor hands the phone to Poppa M.      DISSOLVE TO... 
 I hope they do it slow...you piece of shit. 
 Si. 
 Hello, old friend. 
 Many years.    Are you in need? 
 Yes. I am making marinara and alas, I have run out of tomatoes. To help an old friend...how many can you spare? 
 I am in good supply of tomatoes. 
 Come on.     The game's starting. 
 ROCCO (CONT'D) Funny thing about the Red Sox. We never gave up hope, y'know? It's what kept us going all those years. And they did it. They finally fuckin' did it. What are we all gonna do now, huh? 
 ROCCO (CONT'D) I lost a lot of money on 'em. But I gotta admit. Always felt better...betting the underdogs. 
 So, how's things going? 
 ROCCO (CONT'D) Yeah. I know. It's rough having your faith shaken. 
 ROCCO (CONT'D) But it happens to all of us. 
 (BEAT) You know what's always tripped me out? How hundreds of years ago, a bunch of desperate gamblers in leaky ass ships, crossed the ocean blue. They had no clue what was on the other side of it. Took real balls. But they sailed into infinity and made it all the way to the shores of the New fucking World... (re: surroundings) ...and all they had was their faith. I'm always surprised how so many people miss the simple fact that faith...is the reason all of us are even here. You can't underestimate the power of it. Shit, you were the ones that taught me that. 
 ROCCO (CONT'D) Listen, your my boys so I'm gonna give you some inside. The Sox are gonna do it again this year. The line in Vegas is huge. Put everything you got on it. 
 Maybe we should. 
 You're sure, Roc? You know this? 
 No...I   just have faith. And for a second   there, you almost did too. Y'see,   it's contagious. And if enough people   catch it...look out, baby. 
 While the wicked stand confounded... 
 ...call me with Thy Saints surrounded. 
 He lives in York Maine. About 30 minutes from here. Better go quick. I logged on to an FBI database to get the info. Homeland Security does internal monitoring now. Only a matter of time before they flag it. 
 M Will they know it's you? (she nods) Will you be all right, dear? 
 I hear Costa Rica's nice. 
 EUNICE (CONT'D) I never thought I'd ask this of another human being but please...kill this man. 
 M It ends taday. 
 Anybody word from Bloom, yet? 
 G-MAN #2 Nothing. 
 I want that little Bayou Bitch in here. Something stinks about this whole thing. 
 G-MAN #2 I'm having D.H.S. dump her IP and check for flags. See if she's been poking around. 
 This is S.A.I.C., Jonathan Buford Kuntsler! Security code A4153B! I need an immediate R2 law enforcement override clearance! 
 V.O. What is your specific request, Agent? 
 Everyone in the tri-state area with a gun! 
 M Hello, Louie. 
 Noah. 
 M We haven't much time. 
 My garden. She is beautiful, yes?     Ah, but you. You are blind to beauty.     You are a destroyer, Noah. 
 M You know my reasons.   You know why I did what I did. 
 But do you? You think it was for your father? No. You were born a killer. Death...is in the very blood that runs through your veins. 
 M No. 
 Then explain this. 
 ROMAN (CONT'D) You were not there to raise them. Not a single day. Yet, how closely they follow in the footsteps of their father. They have inherited your blood, Noah...your anger. 
 #1 (whispered into walkie) Remember, not a scratch on the Old Man. 
 #6 Got it.   Wait for the signal. 
 M And you?   What are you? 
 I am a creator. You see? Our very natures stood in opposition as old as the story of the scorpion and the frog. 
 M Why...did you sell me out, Louie? 
 You can never understand. 
 M 25 years....try me. 
 I wanted to join with them. They were building an empire. Creating something and I was helping them! I used you, Noah, to eliminate their problems, to destroy their competition, to cut out their cancers. I earned my place among them. 
 M Is this your place among them? Because all I see is a an old man, sitting in a garden. 
 Alas, the scorpion and the frog both lost everything, yes? I should have paid more attention to the story. 
 ROMAN (CONT'D) Without you...I was no longer useful to them. They cast me out! 
 The location is to be surrounded and secured upon arrival! Nobody goes in! 
 KUNTSLER (CONT'D) Are those fucking news choppers?! 
 M Why the priest, Louie?     Why all this? Why, now? 
 Because I knew it would bring you and your sons. You would destroy the Yakavettas and clear my way. This time, I will take what is rightfully mine. Just a little piece, for my old age. After all, I have never been a greedy man. 
 #6 That's it!   Move! 
 M Boys.    Help me up. 
 POPPA M (CONT'D) I'll see you in a minute, Louie. 
 Oh, no, no, no. 
 M It's a beautiful day. 
 Aye.    It is...it is, Da. 
 M V.O. And shepherds we shall be... 
 M V.O. ...for Thee, my Lord, for Thee... 
 M V.O. Power hath descended forth from Thy hand... 
 M V.O. ...that our feet may swiftly carry out thy command... 
 M V.O. So, we shall flow a river forth to Thee... 
 M V.O. ...and teeming with souls shall it ever be... 
 M V.O. In Nomini Patri... SLO-MO:    The brothers drop to their knees. 
 ...e fili... 
 ...e Spiritu Sancti. 
 #2 ...hundreds took off work today to say good bye to the man Boston is calling simply, "The Father." 
 #2 ...the search continues for missing Special Agent Eunice Bloom. As of yet, law enforcement has turned up nothing but have not ruled out foul play. 
 #3 The young men, who's names Police are not releasing to the public have yet to utter a word since their capture. Even to their court appointed attorneys. 
 It doesn't change anything. What they did is still more important. It's still the issue. 
 They deserve medals. 
 They deserve the death penalty. 
 V.O. Only God can judge! 
 V.O. Oh, save it for group, father! 
 Well, I know this! They certainly don't belong in prison. 
 V.O. Oh, I don't know. 
 HOST V.O. (CONT'D) 
