 
 M.G.M.                                       A.1 
                                              7 
 DR. HILLYER I say, this is outright rude of the man! 
 He's undoubtedly been detained.  That's all. 
 DR. HILLYER Speak up -- what is it, woman? 
 Well...are we or are we not invited to dinner? 
 Thank you, Mrs. Watchett. 
 Nothing really. - George merely says that if he is not here by eight we're to begin without him. 
 MRS. WATCHETT Dinner is served, gentlemen! 
 This is peculiar.  He is usually very prompt, precise and punctual. 
 DR. HILLYER He's making fools of us by inviting us here and then not showing up. It's not the behavior of a gentleman. 
 To say nothing of the waste of time. 
 Good lord! - What's happened? 
 I'm all right...just some food...a drink... 
 Are you all right? 
 Meat...I'm hungry for meat! 
                                              12 
 DR. HILLYER Well, can't you speak, man?  What happened to you?  Aren't you going to tell us... 
 Leave him alone, can't you? 
 It will keep, George.  Eat, rest a little. 
 No!  I must tell it now... while I still remember. 
 Relax, try to relax a bit.  You've all the time in the world. 
 You're right, David. (almost to himself) That's exactly what I have. - All the time in the world!... ever since we were all together five days ago, the last day of Eighteen Hundred Ninety Nine. 
 (continues) I wanted to finish the job before the new century began. - I barely made it. 
 Marvelous. 
 Well, it has to do with time. 
 DR. HILLYER (steps to box) I've always maintained what this nation needs is a reliable timepiece. The Navy needs one. The Army needs one. - For the artillery you know. 
 When I speak of time, I'm referring to the fourth dimension. 
 Go on, George. 
 Now, as you know, the difficulty in explaining the fourth dimension is that it cannot be seen or felt - it must be thought of. 
 If you don't mind, George, would you refresh me on the first three dimensions. 
 DR. HILLYER Really, Filby, they must have taught you something at school! 
 DR. HILLYER Certainly! (he demonstrates pompously) When I move in a straight line, forward or backward, that's one dimension. - When I move to the left or right, two dimensions. - When I move up and down, three dimensions. (a bright idea lights up his face.  At last he can get ahold of the box, but Filby interferes before Dr. Hillyer can get his fingers on it and he has to be satisfied with merely pointing) For instance, this box has three dimensions:  length, breadth, and height. 
 DR. HILLYER Well, that's...that's mere theory! No one can really say what the fourth dimension is or even that it exists. 
 On the contrary, Doctor!  The fourth dimension is as true and as real a dimension as any of the other three.  In fact, they couldn't exist without it. 
 Well, take that box.  It has the first three dimensions, as you said. But what if it didn't exist in Time? It wouldn't exist at all, would it? 
 DR. HILLYER No. 
 So - for an object to exist at all, it must exist in the fourth dimen- sion....and that fourth dimension is duration....Time! 
 I'm coming to that.  But first, consider!  Why is it that we usually ignore the fourth dimension?  Because we have no freedom to move in it.  We can move in the other three -- up, down, forward, backward, sideways. But when it comes to Time, we are prisoners.  Do you follow me, Anthony? 
 George!  You've given a most lucid explanation and all that!  But I don't think I entirely understand. 
 Look!  There are a lot of things in the world you don't understand, aren't there? 
 Of course!  Quite a number. 
 But you don't refuse to believe in them because of that? 
 Not if I can see the proof with my own eyes. 
 Good!  All I'm asking you to do now is to witness a demonstration of the possibility of movement in the fourth dimension. (to Dr. Hillyer) Philip, will you please hand me that box? 
 I've told you.  The larger model can carry a passenger on a journey through Time. - Not through Space, mind you, but through Time. 
 Oh, I say George!  If you start floating around in the future, aren't you likely to mess things up for the rest of us? 
 DR. HILLYER The future is already there.  It's irrevocable and cannot be changed. 
 That's the most important question to which I hope to find an answer. Can Man control his destiny?  Can he change the shape of things to come? 
 This experiment can be performed only once.  If it succeeds, I lose my model forever.  That is why I need witnesses. 
 Go ahead. 
 You're ready then? 
 Doctor Hillyer, would you care to lend me your hand? 
 DR. HILLYER Where did it go? 
 DR. HILLYER Do you seriously expect us to believe that? 
 Certainly. 
 DR. HILLYER But you just said it hasn't really moved. 
 That's correct. 
 DR. HILLYER Then why can't we see it? 
 Because we're in this room on December 31st, 1899, while the model you saw is perhaps a hundred years away.  This room, or even this house, may no longer exist a hundred years from now.  But the Time Machine is occupying the same space it did a moment before it went off on its journey. 
 You must remember that the space you've just put your hand through is today's space.  You can't put your hand into the space of tomorrow. 
 No!  Time changes space.  This flat ground we're standing on now could have been at the bottom of the sea a million years ago.  And a million years from now it could be the interior of a huge mountain. 
 Suppose what you say is true. Exactly what do you suggest we do with such a contraption? 
 For my part, I intend to take a journey into the future. - Unless someone else prefers to volunteer. 
 DR. HILLYER Now listen, George!  I don't know what you take us for, but we're not fools.  There are a number of ways of doing a disappearing trick!  But a man of your ability should not bother with such nonsense. 
 DR. HILLYER Now you're being sensible.  I'll take care of it first thing in the New Year. 
 DR. HILLYER Well, time to go. 
 Yes, we all have our plans for tonight. 
 Of course, I am. 
 Thanks for coming. 
 Happy New Year. - Goodbye, George - Happy Twentieth Century. - Etc. 
 DR. HILLYER Come on, Bridewell. 
 INSERT: NEWSPAPER                                      40-A 
 I thought I'd better stay. 
 No you're not. - You've been behaving oddly for over a month now. (and then) I'm not leaving until you tell me what's on your mind. 
 I appreciate your gesture, David, but if you don't mind I'd rather you left me alone. 
 You have changed, George. Enormously. 
 I'm sorry. 
 I'll try. 
 Why this preoccupation with Time? 
 Don't go simple on me, George! 
 I quite agree with you.  But here we are and we have to make the best of it. 
 You may have to.  I don't. 
 I prefer the future. 
 You're not seriously saying you can do it? 
 You saw the experiment this afternoon, didn't you? 
 I saw a toy machine vanish.  But I'm certain there are a number of ways of doing that trick.  Any magician at the Hippodrome could probably do it. 
 No, I would not!  I have no desire to tempt the laws of Providence and I don't think you should.  It's not for man to trifle with. 
 Now you sound like Hillyer and Kemp. 
 There is something in their common sense attitude to life. (and then) George, I speak to you as a friend. More, as a brother.  If that machine can do what you say it can...destroy it.  Destroy it, George, before it destroys you. 
 You must have plans for New Year's Eve.  Don't let me keep you. 
 Mary isn't well.  We decided to stay home with the baby.  But why don't you come home with me.  You haven't seen little Jaime for a long time. 
 I can't. 
 What's stopping you? 
 I just want to see the old century out by myself. 
 Will you promise me that you won't leave the house tonight? 
 I promise you, I won't walk out of the door. 
 David!  Please don't think me un- friendly! - Come over to dinner - next Friday.  Won't you? 
 Very well. 
 Fine...and will you bring the others with you? 
 MRS. WATCHETT Will you be having supper in this evening, sir? 
 MRS. WATCHETT Thank you, sir, but if you won't be needing me I think I'll turn in early and get some sleep... (indicating revelers outside) ...it I can. - Goodnight, sir. 
 Goodnight. 
 Oh, Mrs. Watchett! (as she responds) I've invited Mr. Filby and the others to dinner next Friday. (and then) Happy New Year, Mrs. Watchett. 
 MRS. WATCHETT Happy New Year, sir. 
 WORKBENCH - (ANIMATION)                                73 
) 
 (positively) Filby!  I expected more of an enthusiastic greeting from... 
 Was? 
 Were you a friend of father's? 
 Yes...yes...I've been away. 
 He was killed in the war...a year ago. 
 Oh, him.  Some inventor who disappeared around the turn of the century. - If you're interested in that house, forget it.  You can't buy it or even go inside. 
 Why is that? 
 My father was executor of the inventor's estate and he refused to liquidate it. (adds with a smile) I often chided him on that account, but he felt positive that the owner would return some day. - Some people hereabouts think it's haunted. (stares at Time Traveller curiously, studying the strange cut of his clothes) Who are you, sir? 
 Just a stranger who once knew your father. 
 I see. (still curious at the Time Traveller's abstract attitude) Have you been at the front, sir? 
 Front?  What front? 
 Why the war, of course. 
 What war? 
 Great heavens, man, don't you know we've been at war with Germany since nineteen fourteen?  I thought perhaps you had seen action in France...or maybe... (noticing confusion, adds with a note of compassion) Perhaps a cup of tea would make you feel better.  Won't you come in? 
 No...no, thank you. 
 You're sure you're alright, sir? 
 Yes, I'm quite alright. 
 Goodbye, Jaime. 
 Good heavens, that's a dress? 
: 
 (ANIMATION) 
 (shakes his head) I can't understand you. 
 (looking at helmet) Confounded radio in this thing. Makes more noise than it does sense. 
 (recognizing him) Filby! 
 My name is Mister Filby. - Didn't you hear the air raid siren? 
 You mean that horrible screeching? 
 It wasn't constructed for its aesthetic values, you know, but to warn silly young fools like yourself to get down into the shelter.  Now go on. 
 But I'm perfectly comfortable and I find your store magnificent.  What splendid achievements, what gigantic strides mankind has taken, what... 
 (interrupting) Come on, young man.  We'd better be going before the mushrooms start sprouting. (looks at Time Traveller with renewed interest) You do look familiar.  Haven't we met somewhere before? 
 Indeed we have.  Right here.  Many years ago. 
 I was sure of that, but the exact time escapes me. 
 It was two wars ago, I believe. Nineteen seventeen. 
 I'm afraid it's going to take me a little time to explain... You see... 
 The last alert...hurry! 
 Listen to me!  It's important. 
 Hurry!  Hide 'til the All Clear! 
 All clear? (yells) I've got to talk to you. 
 MINIATURE, SPLIT) 
 (SPLIT, ANIMATION) 
 Well, and why not? 
 Help her!... 
 Are you all right? 
 Why did I what? 
 Must have been fifty of your friends watching you drown.  Not one of them so much as lifted a finger. - (shakes his head) A curious attitude - in a curious world. (a pause, then a smile) Aren't you the least bit interested in what I am...where I come from? 
 Doesn't anyone age in this land of yours? 
 What's your name? 
 How do you spell that? 
 Spell? 
 Write!  - Can't you write?  Look! 
 INSERT: DUST                                           185 
 And what are your people called? 
 Come.  We must go in. 
 In my time a berry this size would have made news in every civilized country. 
 Sir, perhaps curiosity has died. Perhaps even courtesy has died, but I have come a long way and there are things I would like to know. 
 Because I shall return to my time and they will ask questions such as what kind of government rules your world. 
 Doesn't anyone work? 
 But it must be planted, cultivated, nurtured...unless... (with mistaken insight as he observes no reaction to this last query) Unless you have an economy so well organized that you can devote all your time to study and experimentation. Am I right? 
 Books will tell me what I want to know.  Books will tell me all about you. 
 Yes...they do tell me all about you! 
 What have you done?  Thousands of years of building and rebuilding creating and re-creating so that you can let it crumble to dust. 
 A million yesterdays of sensitive men dying for their dreams.  For what?  So you can swim and dance and play. 
 I am returning to my time!  Not to tell of the uselessness of the struggle - not to tell of the hopeless future - but only so that I can die among men! 
 I heard you pounding...I came to tell you... 
 How do you open that panel? 
 No one opens it.  Only the Morlocks. 
 Morlocks? - Who are the Morlocks? 
 Why are you afraid of the Morlocks? 
 Tell me. 
 When they call, we must go below. 
 Do the Morlocks live beneath the earth? (Weena nods) Why must you obey their command? 
 They give us the food we eat, the clothes we wear.  We must do as they command. 
 What happens to your people when they go below? 
 It is night. 
 Only children are frightened by the dark. - But then you are a child, aren't you? (Weena glances around warily into the shadows, her anxiety mounting) I'll build a fire. 
 Where are you from? 
 Get me a few more twigs. 
 (after calming her) What was it? 
 I never saw it before. 
 (after a long silence) Do you know that the first thing which separated man from the rest of the mammals was his knowledge of fire? (he looks at her) No, I suppose you don't. (pokes at fire) The next great stride came with the discovery of the wheel. (turns to her) Do you know what that is? (she shakes her head) I'm sorry I was angry with your people.  I had no right to be. No more than if I had visited the Island of Bali in my own time. You were safe inside your great house, yet you came out into the night to warn me.  The one characteristic which distinguished man from the animal kingdom was the spirit of self sacrifice.  You have that quality, Girl.  I'm sure all of your people have it.  All it requires is someone to reawaken it. I shall try if you'll let me.  Will you? 
 I do not understand you, but I believe you. 
 That's a good start. - Now try to tell me...who or what are the Morlocks? (Weena looks at him blankly) Are they people or animals? (her expression remains unchanged) What do you know about yourself?  The past?  Don't your people ever speak of the past? 
 There is no past. 
 Don't you ever wonder about the future? 
 There is no future. 
                                          226 
 Man's past is mainly a grim struggle for survival, but there have been moments when a few voices have spoken up.  These rare moments have made the history of man a glorious thing.  I refuse to believe it is dead and gone. We've had our dark ages before and this is only another of them.  All you need is for someone to show you the way out. - I'm only a tinkering mechanic, but there must be this hidden spark in one of your people. If I can only kindle that spark, my coming here will have some meaning. 
 Listen! (pause) Do you hear? 
 Machines! 
 No...Morlocks. 
 (straightening, amazed) You mean those animals run machines? 
 They are Morlocks. 
 (as he walks to her) I know, but have you seen the machines? 
 No, only heard of them. 
 Who told you? 
 The talking rings. 
 (moves closer to her) What sort of rings? 
 (with a shrug) Rings that talk. 
 Can you show me these rings? 
 (picking up a ring) Are these the talking rings? 
 Yes. 
 They speak? 
 Yes. 
 Of what? 
 Things no one here understands. 
 How do you get it to talk? 
 No...don't go...please. 
 You will not come back. 
 I'll be back. 
 Weena!  Where are you, Girl? 
. 
 (MINIATURE) 
 What's happening?  Tell me! 
 (DAY) 
 Stop! 
 What do you mean, all clear? 
 But you didn't listen.  You didn't learn anything.  All that is left is fear...a blind animal fear. Ages ago men were taught to hide in the ground when the sirens blew... taught to run from a raining death... but those men are dead!  And so are the men who slaughtered them.  Don't you understand? (looks around pleadingly) You are slaves of a dead past... You don't even own your souls.  You're led to slaughter like sheep! 
 What about those who went below? How are they to come back? 
 You can try.  Won't any of you even try? 
 T.T.'S So, this was the destiny of the Eloi. 
 T.T.'S (continuing) They were being bred like cattle by the Morlocks who had degenerated into the lowest form of human life...cannibalism. 
                                              283X30 
 Quick, something to burn!  It's my last match! 
                                              283X35 
 A                                               283X36 
 Weena!  Weena, get the torch! 
 Weena!  Go on!  Go on the steps! 
 A WELL - (MINIATURE)                                   365 
 (SUNSET) 
 A WELL - (MINIATURE)                                   372 
 Are you sorry? 
 Sorry? - Sorry for what? 
 That you have to stay. 
 (gazing into the night) Yes. - I am sorry because I could tell so much to the people of my own time... I could tell them about the happiness and sorrow the future has in store for them.  They could learn from it...or would they? 
 You don't want to stay, do you? 
 It isn't that, but I don't fit here anymore than you would in my time. 
 (a pause, and then) I would like to see your time. 
 No, Girl, you wouldn't be very happy there. 
 Do you have someone like me - there? 
 No.  No one like you.  But there are friends who will miss me. - As a matter of fact, I'm probably late already. 
 (stealing a glance, then quietly) Women? 
 No, men. (teasing) There is a woman too, of course! (noticing her disappointment, he relents) She looks after my house for me. She is sixty-two years old. - Much older than you are. 
 (suddenly) How do they wear their hair? 
 Who? 
 The women in your time. 
 (after a thought) Up! 
 Up? - How? 
 (with awkward gesture) Like this. 
 Show me. 
 (innocently) Would I be pretty? 
 (slowly) Yes...you would be.  More than pretty. (his voice sinks to a whisper) I wish we could go back together, Weena, back to my own time...or to times before that when the world was young.  We could... 
 (MATTE) 
                                          387 
: 
 INSERT:  DIAL                                          408 
 DR. HILLYER It is ridiculous!  Simply preposterous! 
 Well, there's one thing I'll say for you, George.  You always could tell a good story.  Best adventure yarn I've heard for years. (loudly) You're a truly fine inventor, George! 
 MRS. WATCHETT I'll turn down your bed for you! 
 Truthfully, where have you been for the past week? 
 (voice of experience) Now, we shouldn't ask such questions, Walter.  It's not hard for a man to lose a week now and then. 
 I don't think I can. 
 DR. HILLYER Are you coming, Kemp. 
 It's getting late and you look exhausted.  You had better get some rest. 
 Goodnight, George. 
 Thank you, David, for being such a good friend - always. 
 What do you think, Filby? 
 Look, you chaps go on.  It's just a short walk home for me. 
 FILBY - PANSHOT                                        423 
 George!... 
 I think I understand. - Look! 
 But it isn't like George. - To return empty handed.  To try to rebuild a civilization without a plan. (to Mrs. Watchett) He must have taken something with him. 
 MRS. WATCHETT Nothing. 
 MRS. WATCHETT Nothing except three books. 
 Which three books? 
 MRS. WATCHETT I don't know. -- Is it important? 
 MRS. WATCHETT 
