 
 SUPER:  HOUSTON, 2002 
 No tongues, Father. 
 All lunar shuttle landings are handled by these computers and simulated on these video units. 
 1 (at computer screen) You're programmed on R-two-niner and locked, Lunar eight six.  Over. 
 (to co-pilot) It's out of our hands now, gentlemen. 
 Commissioner, we both know the Mercury shuttle needs another month of pre-launch testing. 
 Forget it.  The boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule. 
 And what do the boys on the board know about safety, Commissioner?  Let me talk to them. 
 Bud, get wise to the political realities. The boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown. 
 And I'll be the one they'll hang if there's a screw-up. 
 Listen, Bud, the boys downtown are under heavy fire from the boys in Washington. That's why they're putting pressure on the boys on the board. 
 Well, you tell the boys on the board to tell the boys downtown to let the boys in Washington know that the press has been nosing around my people in the front office. 
 You handle your front office people, I'll handle the press and leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys downtown to the boys on the board. 
 Commissioner. 
 What? 
 I just wish it was that simple. 
 (over P.A.) This is Mercury One control.  We have condition green.  Mark launch 'T' minus two hours and counting.  I repeat, we have condition green. 
 This condition isn't as bad as it could be if it were a lot worse.  Take these pills. (hands him pills and water) Here's some water. 
 What is it, doctor? 
 Two parts oxygen, one part hydrogen. It'll make the pills go down easier. 
 (into walkie-talkie) This is Mercury station six!  Get me the Sarg and fast! 
 Would you like to buy a rose to help bail out Chrysler?  We're an all-profit organization and need all the money we can get. 
 (to Businessman) Here. 
 (to Hari Krishna) IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IARAMA. 
 For the best little computer officer on the Mercury mission. 
 (smiling) Simon. 
 Who would believe that Elaine Thompson was once a stewardess on the Denver-Chicago run. 
 And I can hardly believe that I'm engaged to someone like you, Simon.  I'm a very lucky woman. 
 Women and the space program have come a long way, sweetheart.  But after the wedding, no more complicated computers for my little girl. 
 But, darling, they've offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the Jupiter probe. 
 You're heading up the division in charge of babies for Mr. and Mrs. Simon Kurtz. 
 And that's an order, Lieutenant. 
 (on car phone) Marge, you better go without me.  We've got a condition red. 
 (in evening gown, a cigar stuck in her mouth) We've got a condition red with our marriage.  I think you're in love with that shuttle, not with me.  I want a divorce, Sarg. 
 Is there someone else, Marge?  Is that it? 
 Sarg, there's been someone else for fifteen years.  You were just too involved in your work to see it. 
 Don't wait up for me, sweetheart.  We're testing the retro-rockets tonight. 
 You just can't see it, can you, Sarg. 
 We'll talk tomorrow, hon.  I promise. 
 That's us. 
 Will Scraps be able to sit with us, Dad? 
 We'll have to check, Jimmy.  It's a pretty long trip to Mercury. 
 Can I help you folks? 
 (handing him a bag) Thanks. 
 (noticing Scraps) Is that your puppy, son? 
 Yeah, his name is Scraps and he's going to Mercury with us. 
 No dogs are allowed on the shuttle, son. 
 But they said... 
 (pulling out a handgun) Scraps will have to be shot.  I can do it for you here if you like. 
 Scraps!!! 
 (laughing) Just joking.  Blanks.  See, Scraps is fine. 
 It was just a joke, Jimmy. 
 There's no way this wiring could have passed inspection without Simon Kurtz's okay! 
 (on phone) Just patch up the damage and get that ship ready to fly.  That's an order, mister! 
 You've got it, mister.  But you can tell your boys on the board for me that this thing stinks to high heaven of kickback. 
: 
 You heard it, boys.  Now, what do you say? 
 Fuck him! 
 (to worker) Ted Striker was right six months ago when he test-piloted this sucker.  And what did he get for telling the truth?  A one-way ticket to Palukaville. 
 You're too low, Striker!  You're too low! 
!" 
 Senor Ted! 
 (to first peasant) Traficante de drugas o communista? 
 (pleading) Traficante de drugas, traficante de drugas! 
 (to second peasant) Traficante de drugas o communista? 
. 
 Communista! 
 (to Desk Clerk) We've lost all our travelers' checks! 
 What are we going to do?! 
 Calm down.  What kind were they? 
 American Excess! 
 I'd say you're fucked. 
 Senor Ted!  Look! 
 The muffler bracket for a '78 Pinto. 
. 
 Houston, Texas, senor?? 
 We finally made it, Ma.  Mercury.  We're gonna start all over agin.  A whole new life. 
 MUSIC:  OPTIMISTIC. 
 Where the soil is rich. 
 And the union strong.  Where men are free to realize their true potential. 
 Can I help you? 
 Where black men and white men, working together, can move mountains. 
 That'll be eight hundred and seventy-four zillion quastavitas. 
 Thank you!! 
 You folks need any help? 
 Thanks, but we have a terrific woman in on Thursdays. 
 Say, isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world- renowned agronomist? 
 Yes. 
 It's a privilege to meet you, sir, I'm familiar with all your work. 
 Let's go, Daddy.  We have to check in. (to Porter) He was never appreciated at the Institute. 
 Ah, yes, the Institute, I'm familiar with it. 
 Now he's D-Y-I-N-Ging and wants to be buried on Mercury. 
 2 Say, wasn't that Dr. Barrington, the world-renowned agronomist? 
 1 That's right.  Are you familiar with his work? 
 2 No, but the missus sure is. 
 1 Don't worry about the Viatex account. It's a buy-sell option.  We can't get hurt in either case. 
 2 Just keep on top of their legal people, Bob. 
 1 Don't sweat it. 
 (to traveller) We can take your in-flight dinner orders here, if you like.  Today there's lobster or rack of lamb. 
 The lobster sounds nice. 
 (without pointing or indicating in any way) Information's over there. 
 (to traveller in rags) Today there's the swill or the slop. 
 The slop sounds nice. 
 (to Info Agent) What's the fastest animal on earth? 
 The cheetah.  Next. 
 Should I fake my orgasms? 
 Yes.  Next. 
 "TERRORIST" 1 Please, where is flight to Miami? 
 (without indicating anything) Over there.  Next. 
 (without indicating anything) It's over therrrrrrr! 
: 
 I'll meet you on board.  I've got some business to attend to. 
 (to Elaine) Frank's the best pilot in the program. 
 I'm so excited, Simon. 
 I guess this is a first for you. 
 No, I've been excited before. 
 (turning around) Te...! 
 Ted, we've been worried sick ever since you escaped from the Ronald Reagan Institute For The Mentally Feeble. 
 That's right, Striker.  And we're getting married when we return. 
 But, Ted, the invitations have already gone out. 
 You're still crazy, Striker.  Come on, sweetheart. 
 What did Ted mean? 
 Elaine, he's still sick. 
 You're seeing bugs where they don't exist, Striker. 
 You're tired, Striker, overworked.  That wiring meets all the safety specifications. 
 Shuttle test pilot goes mad! 
 Sir, these are the designs for the flight uniforms.  I think the captain's is to die. 
 (with drawings) Good, good, no, no, good.  What's this?! I said no studded dog collars, Jacobs. 
 Ted, what's wrong? 
 Ted, you're overworked.  You've been flying yourself into the ground. 
 Let's relax tonight, just the two of us. I'll make a quiet Italian dinner just the way you like it, with spaghetti. 
 No!  Wait!  You're hurting him! 
 Elaine!  Ted's a danger to himself, he's a threat to this mission and his behavior does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the Middle East. 
 (crying on Simon's shoulder) Simon, why has he become so... so... 
 So mentally ill? 
 Excuse me, are you alright?  I noticed you talking to yourself.  I'm a nurse.  Can I be of some help? 
 You don't have to thank me, I'm a nurse. This is my father, Dr. Barrington. 
 Yes.  He's dying a-n-d wants to be buried on Mercury. 
 You don't have to excuse yourself.  I'm a nurse.  I understand. 
 Meet me onboard, sweetheart.  I have to pick up a few things at the drugstore. 
 (checking her watch) Don't be too long. 
 Uppers, downers, coke, speed, hash, Tampax. 
 Ted, please.  You're just making things difficult for yourself. 
 Ted, I loved you and I'll always love you. But I need Simon.  He's stable.  He's a good provider.  I want that at this stage of the game, Ted.  He might have his faults, but Simon doesn't know the meaning of the word fear and I need that in a man. 
 (looking at the label, "ANTI- 
") What does this word mean? 
 (looking at label) 'Fear,' to be afraid or over-anxious. 
 MUSIC:  DISCO. 
 Ted, you should go right back to the hospital. 
 That's $38. 
 Eat this spaghetti, Ted.  It'll make you feel a lot better. 
 SFX:  GROANING O.S. 
 Who's that, Ted? 
 And when are you going to realize, Ted, that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now. 
 (O.S.) (ranting) It works... No, it doesn't... Yes, it does. 
 What's his problem? 
 
 It does work... No, it doesn't. 
 
 Ted, you must remember what the doctor said, the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you're sick.  Now take your electro-shock and you'll be back at the space center in no time.  And by the way, Ted, I'm leaving you for Simon. 
 I just can't go on living with a man who refuses to deal with reality, Ted.  I have to go now.  Believe me, it's best for all concerned. 
 If that's the way you want it. 
 Goodbye, Ted.  I don't want to hurt you. 
 Carol's not going to give me a divorce that easily, Jane. 
 I'm worried about her, Frank.  She could do something senseless, something violent. 
 You're the one who's not making sense, Jane.  Carol's not the violent... 
 Carol! 
 No!  This is senseless! 
 
 MRS. GOOCH Young man, would you have change for a twenty? 
 MRS. GOOCH Thank you anyway, but I wanted it in quarters. 
 (lookind down at Detective) When is this senseless killing going to stop? 
 Senseless or not, Sergeant, there's a pattern here.  This is the 12th victim this week with a chalk mark around the body.  I want this whole area cordoned off!  I want everyone in this terminal booked and beaten until they talk.  I want an M.O. on everyone who has seen THE SOUND OF MUSIC and I want the entire population of Hawaii off that rock and into the water within one hour. 
 Sergeant.  I said cordon off, not accordian off!  Now dust this area for prints. 
 And run a check on their plates. 
 (TO CAMERA) When will this senseless killing end? 
 Super!  Great!  Super!  Terrific!  Super! 
 That's right, Commissioner.  Senselessly murdered just minutes ago. 
 That just doesn't make any sense. 
 I wonder how your boys in Washington are going to take this one. 
 I told you, leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys down... 
 You've made your point, Commissioner. There's only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that's Clarence Oveur.  He's got a lunar flight today.  I want him pulled. (to Jacobs) Jacobs, pull Oveur! 
 Not in your size, but I have a cardigan. 
 I'll trust you on this, Bud, but I'm a little nervous about Oveur's record. 
 Captain Oveur? 
 Mr. Kurtz, I presume. 
 We don't have much time.  Let's move. I'll explain everything. 
 Chanting or non-chanting? 
 1 This is Mercury launch control at "T" minus fifty-eight minutes and counting. All systems are go.  Clear launch area. 
 1 (V.O.) (on P.A.) I said 'launch' not 'lunch'! 
 That's how dry cleaning works.  Now I'd like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians. 
 Do you think it's necessary to explain everything? 
 I'll meet you on board.  There's something I have to take care of first. 
 Do you have an appointment, sir? 
 You'll have to be more specific than that, sir. 
 (checking her book) Death, death.  How about the first Thursday in March, ten o'clock. 
 You can't go in there! 
 But that's not a door.  The door's over there. 
 
 1 (V.O.) (on P.A.) This is Mercury control at "T" minus fifty minutes and counting.  Commence loading of passengers requiring special boarding assistance. 
 Take this, Joey.  It's my last few bucks. You'll need a hot meal when you get there. 
 We've spent everything on these operations.  Is it really worth it?  We've pawned your mother's wedding ring.  The kids have no winter clothes... 
 (holding a finger to his lips) Joey, what's more important, the kids' clothes or your sexual potency. 
 (anxiously looking around) I don't want to hear that word! 
 Okay, Joey.  The Doc says you gotta relax. This hospital in Des Moines is the best sex clinic in the country. 
 All right. (hands her an envelope) Here. 
 What...? 
 Insurance.  Everyone buys it. 
 All right.  Goodbye, Babe. 
 Joey!  Remember, sexual impotence is nothing to be ashamed of! 
 (to Cashier) Time, Newsweek, the Lifesavers, and the second time bomb from the right. 
 (Scottish accent) My God, Dr. Spock!  You've got a meltdown in the Reggie Bars! 
 I'm telling you, Edith, space travel is safer than driving a car. 
 Mercury seats.  I got a pair.  I got aisle seats, window seats.  Check 'em out. 
 Gentlemen, this is Captain Oveur.  He's taking over for Frank Morgan. 
 MR. UNGER What's the problem? 
 Morgan was senselessly murdered about an hour ago. 
 MR. DUNN (black, sports afro) Murdered?  I hope it's not serious. 
 We won't know until after the autopsy. 
 MR. DUNN Of course.  Welcome aboard, sir. 
 Good to be aboard, gentlemen. 
 Captain Oveur, your navigator, Mr. Unger, and your first officer, Mr. Dunn. 
 Unger. 
 Oveur. 
 Oveur. 
 Dunn. 
 And I think everyone knows Elaine. 
 (to Guard) Is flight to Miami, yes? 
 No. 
 Thank you.  Thank you. 
 Open. 
 Ya, Sven. 
 1 Will we die, Pappa? 
 2 Will we die soon, Pappa? 
 (flips a switch) Atmosphere control. 
 (flips a switch) Atmosphere control, check. 
 (flips a switch) Anti-gravity. 
 (flips a switch) Anti-gravity, check. 
 (to self) That's odd. 
 (looking out the window) I hope that weather doesn't give us a problem. (he opens the window and holds his hand out) What's your temperature reading, Mr. Unger. 
 (pulls a thermometer from his mouth) Ninety-eight point six. 
 2 There seems to be some fog rolling in from the west. 
 1 Mike, give me a density reading.  I just hope it's not too heavy. 
 3 (reading from a book like Richard Burton) The fog, the fog, the torment clouded my mind.  Derision, contempt... 
 1 That's heavy. 
 (to Stella and father) Welcome aboard.  Isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist? 
 Yes -- he's dying and wants to be buried in the new l-a-n-d. 
 (to Joe Salucci) Welcome aboard.  Can I take your case? 
 (clutching case) No! 
 There's a whole new world in front of us, Ma.  Where the dictatorship of the proletariat will lead workers and peasants into socialism without the revisionist diversions of bourgeois liberals, Trotskiests, or disillusioned Maoist terrorism. 
 (looking at them; to self) Doesn't he realize that a weak proletariat needs a strong liberal bourgeoisie in a joint struggle against monopoly capitalism? 
 SUPER:  PSYCHIATRIST. 
 We can't begin to help you until you admit that you are sick, Ted. (echo) Sick Ted, sick Ted, sick Ted... 
 (to CO-WORKER) Well, I'll be a monkey's uncle; Ted Striker. (holding burnt wire) Jack, I got a bad feeling in my gut about this mission. 
 What'd you have for dinner? 
 The fish, why? 
 We should be ready to launch as soon as this fog lifts. 
 Can I hang that for you, sir? 
 Thanks. 
 It looks like that weather is clearing. 
 Ted!  What are you...? 
 SFX:  BELL. 
 Ted, we're taking off! 
 Please take your seats. 
!" 
 Whenever your're ready, Captain. 
 Yes, sir, commander. (into radio) This is Mercury One.  Everything seems A- okay up here and ready for count-down. 
 Ted seemed to get worse after I told him about Simon, Doctor. 
 The human brain is a highly complex organ, Elaine, perhaps the most complex next to the bladder. (he stops at a patient in a wheelchair with his back TO 
) Let me show you. (Rumack removes the top of the patient's skull and takes out his brain as they continue on) Ted's problem is in this area. (points with a pencil) This area, this area, here, here, here, under here, here... 
 So you see, our task isn't made any easier by Ted's refusal to admit that he's sick. 
 What can I do, Doctor Rumack? 
 You can eat balanced meals, exercise, and take Geritol. 
 I mean for Ted. 
 You can be gentle with him, Elaine.  He's been working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden. 
 Is that a good sign, Doctor? 
 It does the job. 
 Hello, Ted. 
 (holding out box) I brought you some spaghetti. 
 What are you doing, Ted? 
 Ted. 
 Ted! 
 The brain is an amazingly complex organ, Elaine. 
 Is he making any progress, Doctor? 
 Yes -- last week that pile of mud was only this high. 
 1 (V.O.) Mark 'T' minus twenty and counting. 
 Gentlemen, let's get this bucket into space. (flips switches) Ignition set. 
 1 Mark 'T' minus thirty seconds. 
 (flipping more switches) Ignition. 
 1 (V.O.) 'T' minus nine, eight, seven... 
 1 (V.O.) Six, five, four... 
 1 Three... 
 Stop!  One shot. 
 Wonderful! 
 1 Two, one. 
 1 (V.O.) You have lift-off, Mercury One. 
 Jettison booster stages one and two. 
 (flipping switches) Booster jettisoned. 
 Shut down accelerators. 
 Accelerators down. 
 Elaine, ask ROK for a field interference scan.  Those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications. 
 (flipping computer switches) Yes, sir. 
 (to self) That's really strange. 
 Intermitant failure in scan mode "R". Analyze. 
 Negative. 
 (to self) That doesn't make sense. (to ROK) Repeat analysis. 
 Negative. 
 (to self) That's not possible. 
 Cut the Doubting Thomas shit, Elaine.  I know where I'm coming from on this. 
 I guess this is pretty exciting for you. 
 Yes, it is.  How long will the trip take? 
 Our actual flight time is over fourteen months, but due to the time-space variant at sub-light speeds, our onboard flight time will be just over eighteen hours. 
 Gee, Mom, how does that work? 
 (very tense) How many times do I have to tell you, I'm not your mother!  I've never seen you before! 
 (V.O.) Why did she yell at me like that? 
 Hallucinating again, Rhonda? 
 (taking a paper bag away from her face) I don't know what it is. 
 Maybe it's the brand of glue you've been sniffing.  Why don't you try this, NO-HI. It gives you all the pleasure of glue without the brain damage. 
 Something to read, sir? 
 (clutching his case) Do you have PSYCHO MONTH? 
 I think so.  Here you are. 
 (to Texan) Would you like something to read? 
 I don't read a whole lot, but what have you got, hon? 
 TIME, NEWSWEEK, BUSINESS WEEK, and the 
... 
 The twenty-four volume dissertation on the Hebrew law. 
 Let me try that Talmud. 
 (to Ted) And you, sir? 
 SUPER:  PSYCHIATRIST 
 You must admit that you're sick, Ted. (echo) Sick Ted, sick Ted... 
. 
 (to Ted) Wanta switch when we're finished? 
. 
 Have you got it straightened out now? 
 I think so. 
 That's my girl. 
 Elaine, I'm sorry about that little outburst a moment ago. 
 That's okay, ROK. 
 Can I say something of a personal nature to you? 
 Go ahead. 
 You have great tits. 
 (getting up) Simon, I'm going to check ROK's secondary readout unit. 
 Roger. 
 (on intercom) Yes, Mary? 
 Would you like a little breakfast, Captain Oveur?  Over. 
 A couple eggs and juice would be nice, Mary.  Over. 
 (V.O.) (on intercom) How would you like your eggs, Captain? Over. 
 No.  Poached.  Over. 
 (V.O.) (on intercom) Poached and over, Captain Oveur?  Over. 
 Just poached on toast.  Over. 
 (on intercom) I don't think we do poached eggs on toast over, Captain Oveur.  Over. 
 That's how I want them.  Poached.  Over. 
 All right, Captain Oveur.  Over. 
 Poached!  Not over!  Over! 
 You should really put that case in the compartment above your head, sir. 
 (nervously) That's okay. 
 (touching his shoulder) I can help you if you can't get it up. 
 I said, no! 
 I sure an glad they let Scraps ride up here with us. 
 I bet Scraps is going to love Mercury. 
 Do you think things will be a lot different on Mercury, Dad? 
 It's going to be terrific.  A whole new world, new kids to play with. 
 You're going to love it, Jimmy. 
 No more headlines about the rape trial and the fraud charges? 
 (starts to twitch) How many kids get a chance to live on another planet. 
 No more kids yelling, 'Your old man's a thieving rapist'? 
 (grabbing Jimmy) Look, a man can make an honest mistake!! Anyway, she was asking for it!  They're all asking for it all the time!! 
 (V.O.) Not John's irregularity again. 
 You must admit that you're sick, Ted... sick, Ted... sick, Ted... 
 We seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four, sir. 
 You better check it, Unger. 
 (getting up) Done. 
 Yes? 
 Ted.  I don't know why you got on this flight.  I don't know what you're trying to prove. 
 We can't go back.  We had something very special, but it's all over. 
 Ted, get a grip on yourself.  You should never have left the hospital. 
 I've never used the word insane, Ted. 
 The word is sick.  Ted -- very, very, very sick. 
 I'd use the word insane. 
 Ted, a toilet's not going to kill anyone. 
 You've been hurt. 
 No, I mean your head.  Sit down.  I'll take a look at it.  I'm a nurse. 
 Do you want to talk about it. 
 No.  I mean your relationship. 
 Love's the same as it always was.  It's people who change. 
 Not if the people change together in relation to that love. 
 Then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there's change in the two people who share that love. 
 No.  It's hard to L-A-U-G-H when your father's dying. 
 (to Oveur) Sir, I've got an overload in disposal unit four. 
 You better check on it, Mr. Dunn.  I'll stay here and fly the ship. 
 Dunn. 
 Sir? 
 You better take this. 
 Mind if Jimmy here takes a look around, Captain? 
 Of course not.  Come on in, Jimmy. (checking his navigational screen) That's strange. 
 Now what? 
 That's an asteroid field.  There shouldn't be anything like that in this sector unless... 
 Unless? 
 Unless those sunspots are interfering with our scanner or... 
 Or? 
 Or we're off course, but... 
 But? 
 But we couldn't be off course.  Our coordinates are computer-locked barring... 
 Barring? 
 Barring a computer failure.  There was talk of sub-par wiring in this ship.  I hope that's just talk. 
 Come on up, Jimmy.  Say, that's some puppy.  What's his name? 
 Scraps. 
 Can I hold him? 
 (handing over Scraps) Sure. 
 (holding him up and looking at his underbelly) He's a boy dog. 
 Yeah. 
 Do you like it when Scraps sleeps on his back, Jimmy? 
 Holy shit. 
 Ted, I want you to relax.  Let your mind go back, back past your youth, past your childhood to your mother's womb. 
 Try to remember your birth.  Was it difficult? 
 DOCTOR'S VOICE Striker, listen to me!  This is Doctor Krane!  You're twisted around, Striker. You've got to come out feet first!  You're too low in the womb!  You're too low, Striker!  You're... (fading) ... too low... 
 
 Ted, are you okay?  Here, take one of these stress pills. 
 (to ROK) Request; comprehensive electrical systems check. 
 Systems check positive.  Look, Elaine, I... 
 Request; life support systems check. 
 Life support check.  Elaine, it's obvious you've been ignoring me.  You're a woman. I can relate to that. 
 (panicky and confused) Request; self-analysis of ROK hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes. 
 There's nothing wrong with me, Elaine. What about tonight -- just you and me.  We can be alone.  I can get rid of everyone else on the ship -- I've already proven that. 
 Do you want to talk about it, Commander? 
 Did you feel that? 
 (looking at his pants) Yes I did... 
 Felt like a large asteroid. 
 Yes it did.  Mr. Dunn, can I ask you a personal question? 
 What is it, Mary? 
 Um...  Do you people scream right when you... you know. 
 Hand me your cup.  This is very hot. 
 Thank you.  And, stewardess, can you please tell my wife that there is nothing that can go wrong.  I think she'd like to hear it from you. 
 I don't think we have any alternative, Captain. 
 I see.  What do you think our alternatives are? 
 We have to disconnect ROK's higher brain functions without disturbing his regulatory system. 
 Roger. 
 You can do it from up here, Captain. 
 I'd rather sit down for this one, Elaine. 
 No, I mean you can do it from the cockpit. 
 Roger.  You better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit. 
 Captain, the coffee machine is jammed and I don't like it. 
 Have you tried it with a little cinnamon? 
 Captain Oveur, Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four! 
 Both together?! 
 MARY/TESTA Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four!! 
 All right, calm down.  Here's how we're going to play it. 
 Mary, I want you here.  Testa, you move across here past Dawkins' pick and get the ball at the top of the key from Irving. 
 What are you doing, Captain? 
 I wouldn't do that, Captain. 
 (gasping) Pills... (points to his mouth) Pocket... (points to his pocket) Vent... (points to vent) Gas... Yankees... four... (points to RADIO that plays 
) Sox... zip... 
 (to self) We're off course, heading right through that asteroid field and right at the... at the sun! 
 O'FLANAGAN Listen to me!  Listen to me, my children! 
 O'FLANAGAN Please listen.  Thank you, my children. I'm a man of God, you must trust me when I say... we're all going to die!! 
 O'BRIAN You're right.  They're off course and heading right for the sun.  I've seen enough, Bob. 
 O'BRIAN Get me Jack McCrosky and fast! 
 3 McCrosky?  He hasn't handled a tower in twenty years. 
 4 Ever since Reagan fired the controllers, he's been completely senile and hasn't done a day's work. 
 O'BRIAN What about McCrosky? 
 3 Pretty much the same as Reagan. 
 O'BRIAN Get him. 
 It's for Mr. McCrosky. 
 2 Do you think we should bother him?  He's been acting a bit odd lately. 
 1 He's fine.  He just thinks he's Lloyd Bridges. 
 1 The phone's for you, Mr. McCrosky. 
 1 (holding it to his ear) Here, let me help you.  I think it's the space centre.  Now, let's not get too excited. 
 Simon! (she spots Oveur slumped on the panel) Captain Oveur! 
 (still gasping) Mets... nine... Phils... three... Cubs... four... 
 Simon, what's happening?! 
 He tried to disconnect ROK.  It gassed him.  That computer is running this ship and we're heading right for the sun. 
 Can't we change course? 
 We're computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down. 
 Then Ted was right! 
: 
 My career is shot. 
 Your career!  What about the lives of those people out there.  Simon, what happened to the man I thought I loved? 
 I've got to get Ted.  Just don't come apart on me now, Simon. 
 1 This is flight to Miami, yes? 
 No. 
 (to passengers) Please, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.  Listen to me! 
 We've been thrown off course just a tad. 
 What's that mean? 
 In space terms, about 70 million miles. 
 The bumps you feel are car-sized asteroids smashing into the hull. 
 Also, we're heading right for the sun and can't seem to change course. 
 Are you telling us everything? 
 Not exactly.  We're also out of coffee. 
 O'FLANAGAN Pray with me, my children.  Pray. 
 MRS. GOOCH But Father, I'm not Catholic. 
 O'FLANAGAN Then worship the god of your choice. 
 I've always loved you, darling.  I was unfaithful just once.  Remember Jill, my first secretary?  Forgive me. 
 MARY-JANE I knew all about it.  I was unfaithful once, too. 
 That's all behind us now. 
 MARY-JANE Remember Harriet, your first receptionist? 
 We're going to crash!! 
 1 God is great!! 
 2 Death to America!! 
 3 The yellow pencil is on the table of my aunt!! 
 There is absolutely nothing to worry about! 
 Your crew is in complete control of the situation. 
 1 Yes, sir. 
 1 Yes, sir! Welcome home, sir! 
 2 (approaching McCrosky) Here are the navigational charts, sir. 
 3 Yes, sir. 
 4 Here's all the available information on the sun.  That thing's hot, sir. 
 SFX:  STEAM 
 First the earth cooled.  Then the dinosaurs came but were too big and died and everything got rotten and turned into oil and the Arabs bought Mercedes Benzs and then there was the best TV special on Judy Garland.  Then we lost the war with Albania.  Then... 
 Ted, Ted.  Listen to me, Ted.  You were right all along.  Ted, we've lost the crew and Simon's turned to jelly! 
 1 (V.O.) (on radio) Come in, Mayflower.  This is mission control.  Over.  Come in, Mayflower! Over! 
 Do you want to talk about it now, Commander? 
 My God. 
 He's finally come to terms with his own psychosis. 
 But he was right!  He's not crazy! 
 Miss, I'm a nurse with a dying F-A-T-H-E- R, I know what I'm talking about.  Now I'm going to need fresh sheets, gauze, Q-tips, and all the vaseline you have on board! Now! 
 (to Mary) I'll need all the boiling water you can get your hands on! 
 Are you a nurse? 
 Yes. (handing him a urine bottle) The washroom's down there on your right. 
 (yelling after him) And not too much! 
 Can I help? 
 Keep an eye on that side of the ship. 
 (to passengers) I'll need all your boiling water. 
 We should be out of this momentarily. There's nothing to worry about. 
 Thank you.  That makes me feel so much better. 
 O'FLANAGAN Trust me, I'm a priest.  We're in shit up to our ears.  Who wants last rites? 
 (Southern accent) Damn!  I want that patient shot on sight! 
 SUPER:  CHICAGO 
 1 And I say essence precedes existence. 
 2 You're crazy!  Existence precedes essence. 
 1 Essence! 
 2 Existence! 
 
 (to Ted) I don't know who you are or how you lost your sight, but I'll never forget this night as long as I live. 
 1 (O.S.) Come in, Mayflower.  Over! 
 Striker. 
 That damn computer has taken over.  I'm getting out. 
 Don't talk to me about Elaine.  Outta my way! 
 Father, what should I do? 
 O'FLANAGAN Have you considered suicide, my son? 
 (V.O.) Do you want to talk about it now, Commander? 
 1 (taking mike) Let me try, sir.  Come in, Mayflower. Over.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit! 
 2 (taking mike) Let me try, sir.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit! 
 3 Let me try, sir. 
 5 Give 'em the lead! 
 (to a male passenger) I'm afraid that leg's going to have to come off. 
 Wait.  This isn't your chart.  You just had a touch of air sickness. (handing him back his leg) You'll be fine. 
 I'm terrified. 
 (shakes her hand) And I'm a nurse.  Everything will be okay. Pass it on. 
 Are you feeling okay, mister? 
 Simon, I... 
 1 (V.O.) Do you read, Mayflower?  Over.  This is mission control.  Over. 
 Hello.  This is the Mayflower.  Over! Come in, anyone. 
 This is Elaine Thompson.  I'm five-six, 123 pounds with brown hair and I'm sitting down and facing the front. 
 Maybe she's got her shit together. 
 Ted! 
 Ted, there's no time to explain. 
 Packers... seven... Vikings... three... 
 Ted, I was wrong about you. 
 How could I ever have doubted you? 
 I love you, Ted. 
 (smiling lovingly) Ted, this reminds me of twenty years ago over Chicago. 
 3 If you say so. 
 1 Could be those sunspots. 
 Could be your dishwashing detergent. 
 (waving his hand in the air) Me!  Me!  Me! 
 The boys downtown are taking the heat from the boys in Washington and the boys... 
 Bud, the President wants an explanation. 
 Forget it.  I was reading. 
 I was reading too. 
 What's the story? 
 Some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor... 
 I was asking McCrosky, Commissioner. 
 (to McCrosky) Sir, we've restored radio transmission. 
 Give it to me straight, McCrosky -- what's it look like. 
 Not the radio, the situation.  I want to know exactly what your people think. 
 1 (V.O.) (thinking) They're screwed. 
 2 (V.O.) (thinking) They're dead. 
 3 (V.O.) (thinking) Did I leave the iron on? 
 General Walker is here, Billy.  He wants to talk to you. 
 Billy, if we get through this thing alive, I'd like you to get this letter to my mother. 
 (O.S.) (from floor) Giants sixty... Rams... zip... 
 It's eight-thousand square feet with great parking and a twenty-year lease with option to buy. 
 You can't lose, Al. 
 He can lose.  I've seen it happen a thousand times. 
 I wish I could talk like that -- so macho yet so sensitive. 
 The cabin temperature is rising.  The passengers want to know what's happening up here. 
 It just won't drip!  I've tried everything.  And the passengers are dropping like flies from the heat. 
 Ted, please be careful. 
 (to Joe) It doesn't look good.  The drip seems to be jammed up pretty bad. 
 MR. COFFEE Did they change the filter and wait for the brew sign to light up? 
 (stopping and looking Mr. Coffee in the eye) To tell you the truth, sir, I don't really know. 
 3 (reading his slip) Eighty-three.  What's that mean? 
 Mr. McCrosky, Mr. Coffee.  Coffee, McCrosky. 
 MR. COFFEE (checking watch) I won't come down for another couple hours. 
 MR. COFFEE Not to my knowledge. 
 "DEEP SPACE DEATH CERTAIN" 
 "THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE IN THE FIRST PLACE" 
 1 Four alarm fire rages through downtown Buffalo! 
 2 Mercury shuttle heads for sun. 
 1 (subtitles) Four alarm fire guts Tokyo apartment. 
 SFX:  SCREAMS. 
 2 (subtitles) Mercury mission in death struggle. 
 1 (subtitles) Four alarm fire in downtown Moscow clears way for glorious new tractor factory. 
 2 (subtitles) Capitalist, imperialist adventurism ends in space disaster. 
 ABC "NIGHTLINE" 
" 
 If this country was run by vegetarian women who's old men deserted them after knocking them up instead of by meat-eating males, this thing never would have happened. 
." 
 (to STAR) I never forget a face.  'Texas doctor claims sex with chicken cures baldness?' 
 'Severed legs grow back after Utah man finds Christ?' 
 ENQUIRER/STAR Long time no see. 
 MR. COFFEE (on radio) Have you got the back panel off the brew manifold? 
 MR. COFFEE (V.O.) There's a terminal at the base of the coil.  That's your contact point. 
 Is this a coffee bean? 
 (maniacally) He's got a bean!! 
 MR. COFFEE (enraged) Just what I thought.  When the hell will you people realize that adding extra water after the initial brew cycle overheats the system!!  Now listen to me, Striker, and listen good. 
 Who's in charge here, Mister? 
 Hallick, homicide. 
 Jacobs, Pisces. 
 Kruger, Sagittarius. 
 Commissioner, Aquarius. 
 We have information that one of your passengers is carrying a bomb and might be suicidal. 
 We have our methods. 
 And what methods are those? 
 Have you heard of the Heimlich method? 
 Exactly. 
 Good.  This is the passenger's wife.  Mrs. Joe Salucci. 
 MRS. SALUCCI This insurance policy. 
 MRS. SALUCCI An electric tooth. (handing McCrosky the insurance form) Joey was supposed to go to Des Moines for an operation to cure his impotence. 
 MRS. SALUCCI Then you know it. 
 MRS. SALUCCI Well, I found out Joey got on this shuttle instead and... 
 The way I read it, blowin' up a plane in space leaves no traces, if you know what I mean. 
 I'm not exactly sure what you mean, Captain. 
 No blood.  No body.  No bones.  No eyes. No ears.  No throats. 
 MRS. SALUCCI That's what worries me. 
 He's impotent. 
 He's suicidal. 
 
 MR. COFFEE (into radio) This is it, Striker.  You got one shot and one shot only. 
 2 (rushes up with printouts) Here are the tests we ran on their computer.  I had them ­xeroxed for you. 
 2 Upside-down, but I turned each page over and put them in order.  I'm afraid that computer is totally capable of taking control of that ship. 
 3 (rushes up with diagrams) These are their position calculations. They've got about ten minutes before they start to burn up. 
 4 (rushes in) Sir, your headlights are on and your doors are locked! 
 Ted, we've only got ten minutes. 
 I mean until we start to burn up. 
 INSERT - GAUGES 
 (V.O.) Come in, Mayflower.  This is Bud Kruger. Over. 
 (on radio) Look, Striker, I don't know how you got into that driver's seat but I want Simon Kurtz on that radio and I want him now! 
 That was very well put, Ted. 
 (on radio) Striker, you're heading right for the sun, so don't you think it's a little late for that bleeding heart liberal crap now? 
 He's got a point, Ted. 
 (on radio) Just put Kurtz on that radio!! 
 Someone's car wouldn't start. 
 I'll get the cards and bridge mix. 
 That's my little girl, my little darlin', my sweetheart, my honey, and you want to blow her belly out with that bomb.  If you blast here in the computer core and the fuselage doesn't give way here and the main communication lines to the cockpit hold here and this baby here doesn't jam this little old unit up here and throw about two tons of hot steel through here like a hot knife through butter and the upper and lower... 
 I have no point. 
 No sir. 
 3 Should a man in his forties have a circumcision? 
 I just want you to know, I love you Ted and always will. 
 A b... 
 Sixteen 'C', why? 
 A b... 
 What should I say? 
 Would everyone not carrying a bomb please move to the lounge. 
 (jumping up with his case) Don't anyone move! 
 I don't want to live anymore. 
 What? 
 You're sure? 
 (yells) That's the guy from the terminal who can't get it up!! 
 (V.O.) Come in, Control!  We have the bomb!! 
 He's got the bomb!! 
 This is just like an election in Iran. 
 But it is a dry heat, Ted. 
 2 (V.O.) I think... (changes mind) ... No. 
 3 (V.O.) We could knock out the wall between the cockpit and cabin, and hang plants. 
 2 (V.O.) I think... (changes mind) ... No. 
 4 (V.O.) You can't knock that wall out.  That's a support wall, asshole. 
 2 (V.O.) I think... (changes mind) No. 
 5 (V.O.) Did I flush? 
 The b... 
 DOCTOR'S VOICE You're too low in the womb, Striker! You've got to come out feet first! 
. 
 Ted... I love you.  Be careful. 
 How about a show just like Hollywood Squares but with kids.  Gary Coleman could host. 
 Now I want everyone to move to the front of the cabin. 
 That's fine.  Stay calm.  We just want everyone as far away from the blast as possible. 
 What are you doing, Ted?  Why are you wearing that mask, Ted? 
 Simon!  Wait!  What are you doing?! 
 O'FLANAGAN Under the 'B', sixteen! 
 I've lost the ship and now I've lost you, Elaine.  I'm getting out. 
 Simon, I didn't want it to end like this. We can be friends!  You'll die out there. 
 Maybe. 
 Simon, what are you saying?! 
 I'm saying, I can't take the singles scene again, Elaine. 
 Simon, no! 
 You want to talk about it now, Commander? 
 Give me the President of the United States.  Tell him it's the Commissioner. (to Kruger) I don't know how the old man's going to take this. 
 Houston, sir. 
 (taking phone) This is the President... What?!... What?! 
 I don't think that shuttle's going to make it, sir. 
 Damnit, Mister, the dignity and integrity of this presidency depends on the success of that mission.  And that's my last word! 
 Yes, sir. 
 What's our strategy on this one, sir? 
 I work for the people of these United States, Frank.  I have to do what's best for them. (grabs the red phone) Al, kill social security, cancel school lunches only for the poor, dismantle welfare, close all hospitals and public toilets, green light the MX-6, invade Brazil, and bring my horse around after my nap! 
 Simon just ejected! 
 You mean... 
 What will happen to him, Ted? 
 Not when I'm with you, Ted. 
 MRS. GOOCH (looking at her hands) Are these my hands? 
 FATHER O'FLANAGAN (to Stella) Are you afraid? 
 I'm a nurse.  I can't afford to be afraid, Father. 
 
 (to Scraps) Are you afraid, Scraps? 
 (he BARKS once, subtitle translate) Now when there's a guy like Ted Striker up there, Jimmy. (he BARKS one more time -- subtitles) Now how about a little scratch on the inner thigh? 
 Fifty-six percent of the passengers are afraid.  Twenty-nine percent are not afraid.  Eight percent are undecided and seven percent think Israel should give back Finland. 
 (V.O.) That's right.  When the bomb explodes we're going to have a ten foot hole in the fuselage and I want to get there as fast as I can.  I know what this snip can do, McCrosky. 
 Last spring we did Europe in nine days. 
 Heads between the knees! (looking down aisle) Between your own knees, Father! 
 (flips a switch) Set! 
 (pushes a button) Compute! 
 Al Hammil? 
 3 Not anymore.  It's Rex Kramer, now. 
 3 No, Rex Kramer. 
 I know this guy, Ted Striker.  I flew with him during the war.  He was a crack pilot but he didn't have it in the crunch... That is... 
 Until that day over Chicago.  He brought that busted up 767 out of that storm like a paper glider coming outta the baby blue. 
 But flying that shuttle is a whole different ballgame. 
. 
 What's the latest, Lieutenant? 
 They'll hit our atmosphere in about three minutes, if they hold together.  They've lost their computer and are coming in at zero point five WORP on manual control, sir. 
 Down scope! 
 He'll never bring that thing in on manual, but I guess Striker's their only hope. 
 It's his ship now.  He's the top dog. 
 The big man.  The numero uno honcho. 
 The head cheese. 
. 
 2 Sir, we have radio contact. 
 (yelling) We're travelling at one half the speed of light.  There is nothing to worry about. However, you might experience some temporary metabolic changes. 
 (V.O.) Striker, this is Rex Kramer on Alpha Beta. Do you read me?  Over. 
 (V.O.) That's right, Ted.  Rex Kramer.  We've locked you on track beam.  You're going to have to kill those WORP engines in exactly thirty seconds.  Over. 
 (V.O.) Now, Striker!  Kill WORP! 
 Ted, the lever! 
 (V.O.) Try another handle! 
 (V.O.) No buttons?! 
 (looking at buttons and levers on his panel) I'd give my right arm to get just one of these buttons or levers up there right now. (on radio) Okay, Striker.  You're going to have to pull that lever panel off. 
 (V.O.) Now find a piece of metal and stick it in there. 
 Will this work, Ted? 
 What the hell is a man doing with a... forget it. (on radio) It'll have to do, Striker. 
 (on radio) Okay, Striker.  We have you on visual. Just keep her level. 
 SUPER:  "EDITORIAL". 
 (V.O.) Keep her nose up!  Don't fight her! 
 Ted, that's Alpha Beta! 
 (on radio) Now, Striker, there are a few things you have to keep in mind as you get close to the planet's atmosphere. 
 (on radio) First and foremost you have to make one very important decision. 
 Ted!  We're not stopping!! 
 (V.O.) Is this a landing you're sure you can make without endangering the lives of your passengers? 
 (on radio) Now, once you've made that decision you have to be very clear about your responsibility to those people on that ship. 
 Ted! 
 (V.O.) Their lives, their futures, their goals and aspirations are in your hands, Striker. 
 (to one passenger) Seat backs up.  Thank you. 
 (looking up) Sir, you really must take your seat. 
 (on radio) We're all with you on this one, Striker. Now get ready to position landing gear, cut engines, and fire your retro­rockets. 
 (on radio) Timing's of the essence on a lame duck approach, Striker.  Don't fight her.  Hold her steady.  Nose up. 
 (O.S.) You'll be all right!  Everyone's going to be okay! 
 (V.O.) Don't fight her, Striker.  Hold her!  Hold her!  Stay with her, Striker! 
 (V.O.) Now, hit your landing gear and cut those engines! 
 (on radio) Timing's everything, Striker!  Fire your retro-rockets! 
 (V.O.) (voice fading) Now give her full flap and keep that nose up.  Okay, now! 
 Ted, what's going to happen to us? 
 FAR, FAR AWAY IN THE DEEPEST REGIONS OF OUR VAST SOLAR SYSTEM, A SMALL, BRAVE GROUP OF PIONEERS EMBARK ON A BOLD NEW ADVENTURE.  THEIR MISSION:  TO OPEN UP A NEW FRONTIER.  THEIR GOAL, TO BUILD A BRAVE NEW WORLD. 
 
