 'Twas a long time ago, longer now than it seems, in a place that perhaps you've seen in your dreams.  For the story that you are about to be told, took place in the holiday worlds of old.  Now, you've probably wondered where holidays come from.  If you haven't, I'd say it's time you begun. 
 Boys and girls of every age Wouldn't you like to see something strange? 
 Come with us and you will see This, our town of Halloween 
 This is Halloween, everybody make a scene Trick or treat till the neighbors gonna die of fright It's our town, everybody scream In this town of Halloween 
 This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! 
 In this town we call home Everyone hail to the pumpkin song 
 In this town, don't we love it now? Everybody's waiting for the next surprise 
 Round that corner, man hiding in the trash can Something's waiting now to pounce, and how you'll scream 
 Aren't you scared? 
 Well, that's just fine Say it once, say it twice Take the chance and roll the dice Ride with the moon in the dead of night 
 Everybody scream, everybody scream 
 In our town of Halloween 
 I am the clown with the tear-away face Here in a flash and gone without a trace 
 I am the "who" when you call, "Who's there?" I am the wind blowing through your hair 
 This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! 
 That's our job, but we're not mean In our town of Halloween 
 In this town 
 Don't we love it now? 
 Skeleton Jack might catch you in the back And scream like a banshee Make you jump out of your skin This is Halloween, everybody scream Won't ya please make way for a very special guy Our man Jack is king of the pumpkin patch Everyone hail to the Pumpkin King now 
 This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! 
 La la-la la, Halloween! Halloween! (etc.) 
 [applause] 
 Cackling 
 It's over! 
 We did it! 
 Wasn't it terrifying? 
 HYDE & CYCLOPS What a night! 
 Great Halloween everybody. 
 I believe it was our most horrible yet!  Thank you everyone. 
 No, thanks to  you, Jack.  Without your brilliant leadership - 
 Not at all Mayor. 
 You're a witch's fondest dream! 
 Walls fall?  You made the very mountains crack, Jack 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN The deadly nightshade you slipped me wore off, Sally. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You're not ready for so much excitement! 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You're coming with me! 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Come back here you foolish oaf!  Ow! 
 Thank you, thank you, thank you -- very much 
 Hold it!  We haven't given out the prizes yet!  Our first award goes to the vampires for most blood drained in a single evening. [applause] 
 A frightening and honorable mention goes to the fabulous Dark Lagoon leeches 
 Nice work, Bone Daddy. 
 Yeah, I guess so.  Just like last year and the year before that and the year before that. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Sally, you've come back. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN For this? 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Shall we then. That's twice this month you've slipped deadly nightshade into my tea and run off -- 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You're mine you know!  I made you with my own hands. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN It's a phase my dear, it'll pass.  We need to be patient that's all. 
 bark 
 No Zero, not now.  I'm not in the mood. 
 bark 
 All right.  [giving Zero a rib from himself]  Here ya go boy. 
 Morning gents [to the band] 
 Jack, you home? 
 Jack?  I've got the plans for next Halloween.  I need to go over them with you so we can get started. 
 He's not home. 
 Where is he? 
 He hasn't been home all night. 
 ooooo 
 (yawning)  Where are we?  It's someplace new. 
 bark bark 
 What is this? 
 [gasps] 
 bark bark 
 Whoa!!!! 
 Ho Ho Ho Ho ho ho ho ho 
 hmm.. 
 This has never happened before. 
 It's scary. 
 Stand aside. 
 grrrr 
 Coming through.  We've got find Jack.  There's only 365 days left till next Halloween. 
 364! 
 Is there anywhere we've forgotten to check? 
 We opened the sarcophagi. 
 I peeked behind the Cyclops's eye.  I did!  But he wasn't there. 
 It's time to sound the alarms. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Sally, that soup ready yet? 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Ah, what's that?  Worm's wart, mmm, and...frog's breath. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Nothing's more suspicious than frog's breath. Until you taste it I won't swallow a spoonful. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You want me to starve.  An old man like me who hardly has strength as it is.  Me, to whom you owe your very life. 
 Did anyone think to dredge the lake? 
 Ah, this morning! 
 barks 
 barks 
 Zero! 
 Where have you been? 
 Call a town meeting and I'll tell everyone all about it. 
 When? 
 Immediately! 
 [in his mayor truck] Town meeting, town meeting, town meeting tonight, town meeting tonight 
 Listen everyone.  I want to tell you about Christmastown. 
 There are objects so peculiar They were not to be believed All around, things to tantalize my brain It's a world unlike anything I've ever seen And as hard as I try I can't seem to describe Like a most improbable dream But you must believe when I tell you this It's as real as my skull and it does exist Here, let me show you 
 A box? is it steel? 
 Are there locks? 
 Is it filled with a pox? 
 If you please Just a box with bright-colored paper And the whole thing's topped with a bow 
 A bow? But why? How ugly What's in it? What's in it? 
 That's the point of the thing, not to know 
 It's a bat Will it bend? 
 Perhaps it s the head that I found in the lake 
 Listen now, you don't understand That's not the point of Christmas land 
 MR. HYDE Oh, yes! Does it still have a foot? 
 Um, let me explain There's no foot inside, but there's candy Or sometimes it's filled with small toys 
 Do they bite? 
 Do they snap? 
 Or explode in a sack? 
 Or perhaps they just spring out And scare girls and boys 
 What a splendid idea This Christmas sounds fun I fully endorse it Let's try it at once 
 Everyone, please now, not so fast There's something here that you don't quite grasp Well, I may as well give them what they want And the best, I must confess, I have saved for the last For the ruler of this Christmas land Is a fearsome king with a deep mighty voice Least that's what I've come to understand 
 There's got to be a logical way to explain this Xmas thing. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You've poisoned me for the last time you wretched girl. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Oh my head...the door is open. 
 Hel-lo 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Jack Skellington, up here my boy. 
 Dr. I need to borrow some equipment. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Is that so, whatever for? 
 I'm conducting a series of experiments. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN How perfectly marvelous.  Curiosity killed the cat, you know. 
 I know. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Come on into the lab and we'll get you all fixed up. 
 Zero, I'm home. 
 Interesting reaction....but what does it mean? 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You can come out now if you promise to behave.  Sally.  Sally.  Oooh!  Gone again! 
 Christmas time is buzzing in my skull Will it let me be? I cannot tell There's so many things I cannot grasp When I think I've got it, and then at last Through my bony fingers it does slip Like a snowflake in a fiery grip 
 Eureka!!  This year, Christmas will be ours! 
 Patience, everyone.  Jack has a special Job for each of us.  Dr. Finkelstein, your Xmas assignment is ready.  Dr. Finkelstein to the front of the line. 
 What kind of a noise is that for a baby to make? 
 Perhaps it can be improved? 
 No problem! 
 I knew it!  Dr. thank you for coming.  We need some of these. [showing picture of Santa and sleigh] 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Hmm.. their construction should be exceedingly simple.  I think. 
 How horrible our Xmas will be. 
 No--how jolly. 
 [switches face] Oh, how jolly our Xmas will be.  [gets pelted]  What are you doing here? 
 Jack sent for us. 
 Specifically. 
 By name. 
 Lock 
 Shock 
 Barrel 
 Jack, Jack it's Oogie's boys! 
 Ah, Halloween's finest trick or treaters.  The job I have for you is top secret.  It requires craft, cunning, mischief. 
 And we thought you didn't like us, Jack. [giggles] 
 Absolutely no one is to know about it.  Not a soul.  Now-- [whispers to LS&B] And one more thing -- leave that no account Ooogie Boogie out of this! 
 Whatever you say, Jack. 
 Of course Jack. 
 Wouldn't dream of it Jack. 
 I wanna do it 
 Let's draw straws 
 Jack said we should work together Three of a kind 
 First, we're going to set some bait Inside a nasty trap and wait When he comes a-sniffing we will Snap the trap and close the gate 
 Wait! I've got a better plan To catch this big red lobster man Let's pop him in a boiling pot And when he's done we'll butter him up 
 Then Mr. Oogie Boogie Man Can take the whole thing over then He'll be so pleased, I do declare That he will cook him rare 
 I say that we take a cannon Aim it at his door And then knock three times And when he answers Sandy Claws will be no more 
 You're so stupid, think now lf we blow him up to smithereens We may lose some pieces And then Jack will beat us black and green 
 He'll be so pleased by our success That he'll reward us too, I'll bet 
 I wish my cohorts weren't so dumb 
 I'm not the dumb one 
 You're no fun 
 Shut up 
 Make me 
 I've got something, listen now This one is real good, you'll see We'll send a present to his door Upon there'll be a note to read Now, in the box we'll wait and hide Until his curiosity entices him to look inside 
 And then we'll have him One, two, three 
 Sandy Claws..hahaha 
 It goes something like this.  [Jingle bells] How about it?  Think you can manage? 
 Next! 
 Fantastic!  Now why don't you all practice on that and we'll be in great shape.  Sally, I need your help more than anyone's. 
 That's splendid. 
 That not my Xmas.  My Xmas is filled with laughter and joy and this--my Sandy Claws outfit.  I want you to make it. 
 How could it be--just follow the pattern.  This part is red, the trim is white. 
 Now don't be modest, who else is clever enough to make my Sandy claws outfit. 
 Next! 
 I have every confidence in you. 
 This device is called a nutcracker. 
 Perfect!  Open it up.  Quickly! 
 That's not Sandy Claws! 
 It isn't? 
 Who is it? 
 Bunny! 
 Not Sandy Claws...take him back! 
 We followed your instructions-- 
 we went through the door-- 
 Which door?  There's more than one.  Sandy Claws is behind the door shaped like this. 
 I told you! 
 Arr!!  [making scary face at LS&B] 
 I'm very sorry for the inconvenience, sir.  Take him home first  and apologize again.  Be careful with Sandy Claws when you fetch him.  Treat him nicely. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN You will be a decided improvement over that treacherous Sally. 
 Master, the plans. 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Excellent, Igor. 
 This time, this time 
 Making Christmas 
 Making Christmas 
 Making Christmas, making Christmas Is so fine 
 It's ours this time And won't the children be surprised It's ours this time 
 Making Christmas 
 Making Christmas 
 Time to give them something fun 
 Let's have a cheer from everyone It's time to party 
 Making Christmas, making Christmas 
 Snakes and mice get wrapped up so nice With spider legs and pretty bows 
 All together, that and this 
 Here comes Jack 
 I don't believe what's happening to me My hopes, my dreams, my fantasies Hee, hee, hee, hee 
 Won't they be impressed, I am a genius See how I transformed this old rat Into a most delightful hat 
 Hmm, my compliments from me to you On this your most intriguing hat Consider though this substitute A bat in place of this old rat Huh! No, no, no, now that's all wrong This thing will never make a present It's been dead now for much too long Try something fresher, something pleasant Try again, don't give up 
 This time, this time 
 It's ours! 
 Making Christmas, making Christmas La, la, la It's almost here 
 'Cause when the full moon starts to climb We'll all sing out 
 It's Christmastime Hee, hee, hee 
 Kathleen, Bobby, Susie, yes, Susie's been nice.  Nice, nice, naughty, nice, nice, nice.  There are hardly any naughty children this year. 
 Now who could that be? 
 Huh? 
 Isn't that wonderful.  It couldn't be more wonderful! 
 Not anymore.  And I feel so much better now. 
 
 You're right, something is missing but what?  I've got the beard, the coat, the boots -- 
 This time we really did! 
 He sure is big Jack! 
 And heavy! 
 Let me out! 
 Sandy Claws in person.  What a pleasure to meet you.  Why you have hands!  You don't have claws at all. 
 Where am I? 
 Surprised aren't you?  I knew you would be.  You don't need to have another worry about Xmas this year. 
 What? 
 Consider this a vacation Sandy,  a reward.  It's your turn to take it easy. 
 But there must be some mistake! 
 See that he's comfortable.  Just a second fellows.  Of course, that's what I'm missing. 
 But -- 
 Thanks!  [took Sandy's hat] 
 You just can't...  Hold on where are we going now? 
 ho ho ho 
 Me?  On vacation on Xmas eve? 
 Where are we taking him? 
 To Oogie boogie, of course.  There isn't anywhere in the whole world more comfortable than that and Jack said to make him comfortable.  Didn't he? 
 SHOCK & BARREL Yes he did. 
 Haven't you heard of peace on earth and good will toward men? 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN What a joy to think of all we'll have in common.  We'll have conversations worth having. 
 Don't do this.  Naughty children never get any presents. 
 I think he might be too big. 
 No he's not.  If he can go down a chimney, he can fit down here! 
 Well, well, well, what have we here? Sandy Claws, huh? Oh, I'm really scared So you're the one everybody's talkin' about, ha, ha 
 Ohhh 
 Ohhh 
 Ohhh 
 Ohhh, he's the Oogie Boogie Man 
 Release me now Or you must face the dire consequences The children are expecting me So please, come to your senses 
 You're jokin', you're jokin' I can't believe my ears Would someone shut this fella up I'm drownin' in my tears It's funny, I'm laughing You really are too much And now, with your permission I'm going to do my stuff 
 What are you going to do? 
 I'm gonna do the best I can 
 Release me fast or you will have to Answer for this heinous act 
 Oh, brother, you're something You put me in a spin You aren't comprehending The position that you're in It's hopeless, you're finished You haven't got a prayer 'Cause I'm Mr. Oogie Boogie And you ain't going nowhere 
 Think of us as you soar triumphantly through the sky outshining every star.  Your silhouette a dark blot on the moon, you who are our pride, you who are our glory, you who have frightened billions into an early grave. 
 You who have eh, devastated the souls of the living... 
 Oh no!  We can't take off in this!  The reindeer can't see an inch in front of their noses. 
 This fog's as thick as, as... 
 Jelly brains 
 Thicker! 
 There go all of my hope, my precious plans, my glorious dreams. 
 barks 
 No Zero, down boy.  My what a brilliant nose you have.  The better to light my way!  To the head of the team, Zero!  We're off! 
 ho ho ha ha ha 
 ho ho ho ho ho ho he he he 
 Merry Xmas!  And what is your name? 
 That's all right.  I have a special present for you anyway. There you go sonny.  Hohohohehehe 
 Merry Xmas! 
 [ON PHONE] Hello, police. [frantic peanuts-type talk] Attacked by Xmas toys?  That's strange.  That's the second toy complaint we've had. 
 hohohohehehe 
 You're welcome one and all! 
 Look Zero, search lights! 
 They're celebrating!  They're thanking us for doing such a good job. 
 Whoa, careful down there, you almost hit us. 
 bark 
 It's ok, Zero.  Head higher! 
 Are you a gamblin man, Sandy?  Let's play. 
 Mmmm.. my, my....what have we here? 
 Ah, lovely.  Tickle, tickle, tickle.  Tickle, tickle, tickle. 
 What?!?  You trying to make a dupe out of me? 
 Who's next on my list.  Ah, little Harry and Jordan.  Won't they be surprised. 
 They're trying to hit us!  ZERO! 
 Bark 
 Merry Xmas to all and to all a good night... 
 howl! 
 The king of Halloween has been blown to smithereens.  Skeleton Jack is now a pile of dust. 
 Come on Zero.  Xmas isn't over yet! 
 What's that you were saying about luck, rag doll? 
 Sandy, looks like it's Oogie's turn to boogie. 
 one 2 3 4 5 6 7 -- hahaha 
 This can't be happening! 
 Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.  Oh, I'm feeling weak...with hunger. One more roll of the dice oughta do it.  Haha [rolls dice] What!  Snake eyes.  [bang on table] Eleven!  Haha  looks like I won the jackpot! Bye bye doll face and sandman. Ha, ha, ha [about to dump Sally & Sandy Claus into the lava] What the... 
 Hello Oogie 
 Jack, but they said you were dead.  You must be double dead. Well come on bone man. 
 bark bark 
 oooo ooo ooo.  Pull an arm.  ha ha 
 So long, Jack.  haha 
 How dare you treat my friends so shamefully. 
 Now look what you've done.  My bugs, my bugs, my bugs, bye bye bye 
 Forgive me Mr. claws, I'm afraid I've made a terrible mess of your holiday. 
 Bumpy sleigh ride, Jack?  The next time you get the urge to take over someone else's holiday, I'd listen to her!  She's the only one who makes any sense around this insane asylum! Skeletons.... 
 I hope there's still time-- 
 To fix Xmas?  Of course there is, I'm Santa Claus! 
 How did you get down here Sally? 
 to help me 
 Sally, I can't believe I never realized...that you... 
 Jack, Jack! 
 Here he is! 
 Alive! 
 Just like we said. 
 Grab a hold my boy! 
 JACK & SALLY whoa! 
 Good news, folks.  Santa Claus, the one and only has finally been spotted.  Old Saint Nick appears to be traveling at supersonic speed. He's setting things right, bringing joy and cheer wherever he goes.  Yes folks, Kris Kringle has pulled it out of the bag and delivered Xmas to excited children all over the world! 
 La, la, la, (etc.) Jack's OK, and he's back, OK 
 Jack is back now, everyone sing In our town of Halloween 
 It's great to be home! 
 Hohohohoho Happy Halloween! 
 Merry Xmas! 
 What's this? 
 What's this? 
 I haven't got a clue 
 MR. HYDE What's this? 
 Why it's completely new 
 Must be a Christmas thing 
 It's really very strange 
 This is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! 
 DR. FINKELSTEIN Careful, my precious jewel! 
 
