 
 There's an old joke.  Uh, two elderly women are at a Catskills mountain resort, and one of 'em says: "Boy, the food at this place is really terrible." The other one says, "Yeah, I know, and such ... small portions." Well, that's essentially how I feel about life.  Full of loneliness and misery and suffering and unhappiness, and it's all over much too quickly.  The-the other important joke for me is one that's, uh, usually attributed to Groucho Marx, but I think it appears originally in Freud's wit and its relation to the unconscious.  And it goes like this-I'm paraphrasing: Uh ... "I would never wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member." That's the key joke of my adult life in terms of my relationships with women.  Tsch, you know, lately the strangest things have been going through my mind, 'cause I turned forty, tsch, and I guess I'm going through a life crisis or something, I don't know. I, uh ... and I'm not worried about aging. I'm not one o' those characters, you know. Although I'm balding slightly on top, that's about the worst you can say about me.  I, uh, I think I'm gonna get better as I get older, you know?  I think I'm gonna be the- the balding virile type, you know, as opposed to say the, uh, distinguished gray, for instance, you know?  'Less I'm neither o' those two. Unless I'm one o' those guys with saliva dribbling out of his mouth who wanders into a cafeteria with a shopping bag screaming about socialism. (Sighing) Annie and I broke up and I-I still can't get my mind around that.  You know, I-I keep sifting the pieces of the relationship through my mind and-and examining my life and tryin' to figure out where did the screw-up come, you know, and a year ago we were... tsch, in love.  You know, and-and-and ... And it's funny, I'm not-I'm not a morose type.  I'm not a depressive character. I-I-I, uh, (Laughing) you know, I was a reasonably happy kid, I guess.  I was brought up in Brooklyn during World War II. 
 (To the doctor) He's been depressed.  All off a sudden, he can't do anything. 
 (Nodding) Why are you depressed, Alvy? 
 (Nudging Alvy) Tell Dr. Flicker. (Young Alvy sits, his head down.  His mother answers for him) It's something he read. 
 (Puffing on his cigarette and nodding) Something he read, huh? 
 (His head still down) The universe is expanding. 
 The universe is expanding? 
 (Looking up at the doctor) Well, the universe is everything, and if it's expanding, someday it will break apart and that would be the end of everything! 
 (shouting) What is that your business? (she turns back to the doctor) He stopped doing his homework. 
 What's the point? 
 (Excited, gesturing with her hands) What has the universe got to do with it? You're here in Brooklyn!  Brooklyn is not expanding! 
 (Heartily, looking down at Alvy) It won't be expanding for billions of years yet, Alvy.  And we've gotta try to enjoy ourselves while we're here.  Uh? 
 ALVY'S VOICE My analyst says I exaggerate my childhood memories, but I swear I was brought up underneath the roller- 
 ALVY'S VOICE -coaster in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn.  Maybe that accounts for my personality, which is a little nervous, I think. 
 ALVY'S VOICE You know, I have a hyperactive imagination. My mind tends to jump around a little, and have some trouble between fantasy and reality. 
 ALVY'S VOICE My father ran the bumper-car concession. (Alvy as a child moves into the frame driving a bumper car.  He stops as other cars bombard him.  His father continues to direct the traffic) There-there he is and there I am.  But I-I-I-I used to get my aggression out through those cars all the time. 
 ALVY'S VOICE I remember the staff at our public school.  You know, we had a saying, uh, that "Those who can't do, teach, and those who can't teach, teach gym." And ...uh, h'h, of course, those who couldn't do anything, I think, were assigned to our school.  I must say- 
 ALVY'S VOICE I always felt my schoolmates were idiots. Melvyn Greenglass, you know, fat little face, and Henrietta Farrell, just Miss Perfect all the time.  And-and Ivan Ackerman, always the wrong answer.  Always. 
 Seven and three is nine. 
 ALVY'S VOICE Even then I knew they were just jerks. (The camera moves back to the teacher, who is glaring out at her students) In nineteen forty-two I had already dis- 
 (Off screen) That's the second time this month!  Step up here! 
 What'd I do? 
 Step up here! 
 What'd I do? 
 You should be ashamed of yourself. 
 (The younger, Alvy standing next to her) Six-year-old boys don't have girls on their minds. 
 (With young, Alvy still at her side) Why couldn't you have been more like Donald? (The camera pans over to Donald, sitting up tall in his seat, then back to the teacher) Now, there was a model boy! 
 I run a profitable dress company. 
 ALVY'S VOICE Right.  Sometimes I wonder where my classmates are today. 
 I lost track of most of my old schoolmates, but I wound up a comedian.  They did not take me in the Army.  I was, uh ... Interestingly enough, I was-I was four-P. 
 Four-P? 
 Yes.  In-in-in-in the event of war, I'm a hostage. 
 You always only saw the worst in people. You never could get along with anyone at school.  You were always outta step with the world.  Even when you got famous, you still distrusted the world.' 
 I distinctly heard it.  He muttered under his breath, "Jew." 
 You're crazy! 
 No, I'm not.  We were walking off the tennis court, and you know, he was there and me and his wife, and he looked at her and then they both looked at me, and under his breath he said, "Jew." 
 Alvy, you're a total paranoid. 
 Wh- How am I a paran-?  Well, I pick up on those kind o' things.  You know, I was having lunch with some guys from NBC, so I said ... uh, "Did you eat yet or what?" and Tom Christie said, "No, didchoo?" Not, did you, didchoo eat?  Jew?  No, not did you eat, but Jew eat?  Jew.  You get it? Jew eat? 
 Ah, Max, you, uh ... 
 Stop calling me Max. 
 Why, Max?  It's a good name for you.  Max, you see conspiracies in everything. 
 No, I don't!  You know, I was in a record store.  Listen to this -so I know there's this big tall blond crew-cutted guy and he's lookin' at me in a funny way and smiling and he's saying, "Yes, we have a sale this week on Wagner." Wagner, Max, Wagner-so I know what he's really tryin' to tell me very significantly Wagner. 
 Right, Max.  California, Max. 
 Ah. 
 Let's get the hell outta this crazy city. 
 Forget it, Max. 
 -we move to sunny L.A. All of show business is out there, Max. 
 No, I cannot.  You keep bringing it up, but I don't wanna live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a right turn on a red light. 
 (Checking his watch) Right, Max, forget it.  Aren't you gonna be late for meeting Annie? 
 I'm gonna meet her in front of the Beekman. I think I have a few minutes left.  Right? 
 (Nodding his head) No. Yeah, once in a while.  You know, like occasionally. 
 (Clearing his throat) You wouldn't know it.  It doesn't matter. What's the difference? 
 Once in a while, you know.  I mean, you know, every now- 
 (Nervously) I'm ... I'm, uh, I'm Robert Redford. 
 Alvy Singer. It was nice nice ... Thanks very much ... for everything. 
 Fellas ... you know-Jesus!  Come on! 
 (Overlapping 1st man) Gimme a break, will yuh, gimme a break. Jesus Christ! 
 I need a large polo mallet! 
 (Annoyed) Fellas, what is this-a meeting o' the teamsters?  You know.. . 
 You don't want my autograph. 
 (Taking the matchbook and pen and writing) Your girl friend's name is Ralph? 
 (Overlapping the two men and stuttering) I-i-i-i-it's all right, fellas. (As Alvy opens the cab door, the two men still behind him, Annie gets out) Jesus, what'd you do, come by way of the Panama Canal? 
 (Overlapping Alvy) Alright, alright, I'm in a bad mood, okay? 
 Bad mood?  I'm standing with the cast of "The Godfather." 
 You're gonna hafta learn to deal with it. 
 Deal!  I'm dealing with two guys named Cheech! 
 Okay. (They move into the ticket line, still talking.  A billboard next to them reads "INGMAR BERGMAN'S 'FACE TO FACE ,'LIV ULLMANN") Please, I have a headache, all right? 
 Hey, you are in a bad mood.  You-you- you must be getting your period. 
 I'm not getting my period.  Jesus, every time anything out of the ordinary happens, you think that I'm getting my period! 
 (Gesturing) A li-little louder.  I think one of them may have missed it! (To the ticket clerk) H'm, has the picture started yet? 
 It started two minutes ago. 
 (Hitting his hand on the counter) That's it!  Forget it!  I-I can't go in. 
 Two minutes, Alvy. 
 (Overlapping Annie) No, I'm sorry, I can't do it.  We-we've blown it already. I-you know, uh, I-I can't go in in the middle. 
 In the middle? (Alvy nods his head yes and let's out an exasperated sigh) We'll only miss the titles.  They're in Swedish. 
 You wanna get coffee for two hours or something?  We'll go next- 
 Two hours?  No, u-uh, I'm going in. I'm going in. 
 (Waving to Annie) Go ahead.  Good-bye. 
 Look, while we're talking we could be inside, you know that? 
 (Watching people with tickets move past them) Hey, can we not stand here and argue in front of everybody, 'cause I get embarrassed. 
 Alright.  All right, all right, so whatta you wanna do? 
 I don't know now.  You-you wanna go to another movie? (Annie nods her head and shrugs her shoulders disgustedly as Alvy, gesturing with his band, looks at her) So let's go see The Sorrow and the Pity. 
 Oh, come on, we've seen it.  I'm not in the mood to see a four-hour documentary on Nazis. 
 Well, I'm sorry, I-I can't ... I-I-I've gotta see a picture exactly from the start to the finish, 'cause-'cause I'm anal. 
 (Laughing now) H'h, that's a polite word for what you are. 
 (Overlapping the man's speech) I'm-I'm-I'm gonna have a stroke. 
 (Reading) Well, stop listening to him. 
 (Sighing) He's screaming his opinions in my ear. 
 (Overlapping) Key word here is "indulgent." 
 (To Annie, who is still reading, overlapping the man in line who is still talking) What are you depressed about? 
 I missed my therapy.  I overslept. 
 How can you possibly oversleep? 
 The alarm clock. 
 (Gasping) You know what a hostile gesture that is to me? 
 I know-because of our sexual problem, right? 
 Hey, you ... everybody in line at the New Yorker has to know our rate of intercourse? 
 (To Annie) I'd like to hit this guy on a gut level. 
 Stop it, Alvy! 
 (Wringing his hands) Well, he's spitting on my neck!  You know, he's spitting on my neck when he talks. 
 And you know something else?  You know, you're so egocentric that if I miss my therapy you can think of it in terms of how it affects you! 
 (Reacting again to the man in line) Probably on their first date, right? 
 Probably met by answering an ad in the New York Review of Books.  "Thirtyish academic wishes to meet woman who's interested in Mozart, James Joyce and sodomy." (He sighs; then to Annie) Whatta you mean, our sexual problem? 
 Oh! 
 I-I-I mean, I'm comparatively normal for a guy raised in Brooklyn. 
 Okay, I'm very sorry.  My sexual problem! Okay, my sexual problem!  Huh? 
 I never read that.  That was-that was Henry James, right?  Novel, uh, the sequel to Turn of the Screw?  My Sexual ... 
 (More and more aggravated) What I wouldn't give for a large sock o' horse manure. 
 (Sighing and addressing the audience) What do you do when you get stuck in a movie line with a guy like this behind you?  I mean, it's just maddening! 
 I mean, d- He can give you- Do you hafta give it so loud?  I mean, aren't you ashamed to pontificate like that?  And-and the funny part of it is, M-Marshall McLuhan, you don't know anything about Marshall McLuhan's...work! 
 Oh, do yuh? 
 Well, that's funny, because I happen to have Mr. McLuhan right here.  So ... so, here, just let me-I mean, all right.  Come over here ... a second. 
 (To McLuban) Tell him. 
 (To the man in line) I hear-I heard what you were saying. You-you know nothing of my work.  You mean my whole fallacy is wrong.  How you ever got to teach a course in anything is totally amazing. 
 (To the camera) Boy, if life were only like this! 
 CINEMA 5 LTD., 1972 MARCEL OPHULS, ANDRE HARRIS, 1969 Chronicle of a French town during the Occupation 
 NARRATOR'S VOICE (Over credits and soldiers) June fourteenth, nineteen forty, the German army occupies Paris.  All over the country, people are desperate for every available scrap of news. 
 (Off screen) Boy, those guys in the French Resistance were really brave, you know?  Got to listen to Maurice Chevalier sing so much. 
 M'm, I don't know, sometimes I ask myself how I'd stand up under torture. 
 (Off screen) You?  You kiddin'? (He moves into the frame, lying across the bed to touch, Annie, who makes a face) If the Gestapo would take away your Bloomingdale's charge card, you'd tell 'em everything. 
 That movie makes me feel guilty. 
 Yeah, 'cause it's supposed to. 
 Alvy, I ... 
 What-what-what-what's the matter? 
 I-you know, I don't wanna. 
 (Overlapping Annie, reacting) What-what-I don't ... It's not natural! We're sleeping in a bed together.  You know, it's been a long time. 
 I know, well, it's just that-you know, I mean, I-I-I-I gotta sing tomorrow night, so I have to rest my voice. 
 (Overlapping Annie again) It's always some kind of an excuse.  It's- You know, you used to think that I was very sexy.  What ... When we first started going out, we had sex constantly ... We're- we're probably listed in the Guinness Book of World Records. 
 (Patting Alvy's band solicitously) I know.  Well, Alvy, it'll pass, it'll pass, it's just that I'm going through a phase, that's all. 
 M'm. 
 I mean, you've been married before, you know how things can get.  You were very hot for Allison at first. 
 (Looking down at the clipboard) Ma'am, you're on right after this man ... about twenty minutes, something like that. 
 Oh, thank you. 
 (Coughing) Excuse ... excuse me, when do I go on? 
 (Looking down at the clipboard) Who are you? 
 Alvy ... Alvy Singer.  I'm a comedian. 
 Oh, comedian.  Yes.  Oh, uh ... you're on next. 
 (Rubbing his hands together nervously) What do you mean, next? 
 (Laughing) Uh ... I mean you're on right after this act. 
 (Gesturing) No, it can't be, because he's a comic. 
 Yes. 
 So what are you telling me, you're putting on two comics in a row? 
 Why not? 
 No, I'm sorry, I'm not goin'- I can't ... I don't wanna go on after that comedian. 
 It's okay. 
 No, because they're-they're laughing, so (He starts laughing nervously) I-I-I'd rather not.  If you don't mind, I prefer- 
 (Overlapping) Will you relax, please?  They're gonna love you, I know. 
 (Overlapping) I prefer not to, because ... look, they're laughing at him.  See, so what are yuh telling me- 
 (Overlapping) Yes. 
 (Overlapping) -that I've got to ... ah ... ah ... They're gonna laugh at him for a couple minutes, then I gotta go out there, I gotta ... get laughs, too.  How much can they laugh? (Off screen) They-they they're laughed out. 
 (Off screen) Do you feel all right? 
 (Off screen, onstage) You know ... 
 (Above the chatter around him) Look, what's your-what's your name? 
 (Off screen) ... General Eisenhower is not ... 
 (Looking out at the stage) Allison. 
 Yeah?  Allison what? 
 (Still looking off screen) Portchnik. 
 ... a group from the ... 
 (Coughing) Thank you. I-I don't know why they would have me at this kind of rally 'cause ... (He clears his throat) Excuse me, I'm not essentially a political comedian at all. 
 I ... interestingly had, uh, dated ... a woman in the Eisenhower Administration ... briefly ... and, uh, it was ironic to me 'cause, uh . . . tsch . . . 'cause I was trying to, u-u-uh, do to her what Eisenhower has been doing to the country for the last eight years. 
 H'm, I'm sorry, I can't go through with this, because it-I can't get it off my mind, Allison ... it's obsessing me! 
 Well, I'm getting tired of it.  I need your attention. 
 It-but it-it ... doesn't make any sense. He drove past the book depository and the police said conclusively that it was an exit wound.  So-how is it possible for Oswald to have fired from two angles at once?  It doesn't make sense. 
 Alvy. 
 I'll tell you this!  He was not marksman enough to hit a moving target at that range.  But ... (Clears his throat) if there was a second assassin ... it- That's it! 
 We've been through this. 
 If they-they recovered the shells from that rifle. 
 (Moving back to the bed and lighting a cigarette) Okay.  All right, so whatta yuh saying, now?  That e-e-everybody o-o-on the Warren Commission is in on this conspiracy, right? 
 Well, why not? 
 Yeah, Earl Warren? 
 (Moving toward the bed) Hey ... honey, I don't know Earl Warren. 
 Lyndon Johnson? 
 (Propping one knee on the bed and gesturing) L-L-Lyndon Johns Lyndon Johnson is a politician.  You know the ethics those guys have?  It's like-uh, a notch underneath child molester. 
 Then everybody's in in the conspiracy? 
 (Nodding his head) Tsch. 
 The FBI, and the CIA, and J. Edgar Hoover and oil companies and the Pentagon and the men's-room attendant at the White House? 
 I-I-I-I would leave out the men's-room attendant. 
 You're using this conspiracy theory as an excuse to avoid sex with me. 
 Oh, my God! (Then, to the camera) She's right!  Why did I turn off Allison Portchnik?  She was-she was beautiful.  She was willing.  She was real ... intelligent. (Sighing) Is it the old Groucho Marx joke?  That-that I-I just don't wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member? 
 Alvy, now don't panic.  Please. 
 Look, I told you it was a ... mistake to ever bring a live thing in the house. 
 Stop it!  Don't ... don't do that!  There. 
 Well, maybe we should just call the police. Dial nine-one-one, it's the lobster squad. 
 Come on, Alvy, they're only baby ones, for God's sake. 
 If they're only babies, then you pick 'em up. 
 Oh, all right.  All right!  It's all right.  Here. 
 Don't give it to me.  Don't! 
 (Hysterically) Oooh!  Here!  Here! 
 (Pointing) Look!  Look, one crawled behind the refrigerator.  It'll turn up in our bed at night. (They move over to the refrigerator; Alvy moves as close to the wall as possible as Annie, covering her mouth and laughing hysterically, teasingly dangles a lobster in front of him) Will you get outta here with that thing? Jesus! 
 (Laughing, to the lobster) Get him! 
 (Laughing) Talk to him.  You speak shellfish! (He moves over to the stove and takes the lid of a large steamer filled with boiling water) Hey, look ... put it in the pot. 
 (Laughing) I can't!  I can't put him in the pot.  I can't put a live thing in hot water. 
 (Overlapping) Gimme!  Gimme!  Let me do it!  What-what's he think we're gonna do, take him to the movies? 
 (Overlapping Alvy and making sounds) Oh, God!  Here yuh go!  Oh, good, now he'll think- (She screams) Aaaah!  Okay. 
 (Overlapping Annie) Okay, it's in.  It's definitely in the pot! 
 All right.  All right.  All right. 
 Annie, there's a big lobster behind the refrigerator.  I can't get it out. This thing's heavy.  Maybe if I put a little dish of butter sauce here with a nutcracker, it will run out the other side, you know what I mean? 
 (Overlapping) Yeah.  I'm gonna get my ... I'm gonna get my camera. 
 You know, I-I think ... if I could pry this door off ... We shoulda gotten steaks 'cause they don't have legs.  They don't run around. 
 Great!  Great! (Screaming) Goddammit! (Screaming) Ooooh!  These are ... p-p-p-pick this lobster up.  Hold it, please! 
 All right!  All right!  All right!  All right!  Whatta yuh mean?  Are yuh gonna take pictures now? 
 It'll make great- Alvy, be- Alvy, it'll be wonderful ... Ooooh, lovely! 
 (Picking up the lobster Annie placed on the counter earlier) All right, here!  Oh, God, it's disgusting! 
 Don't be a jerk.  One more, Alvy, please, one more picture. (Reluctantly Alvy picks up the lobster again as Annie takes another picture) Oh, oh, good, good! 
 So, so-well, here's what I wanna know. W-what ... (He clears his throat) Am I your first big romance? 
 Oh ... no, no, no, no, uh, uh.  No. 
 Well, then, w-who was? 
 Oh, well, let's see, there was Dennis, from Chippewa Falls High School. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (Off screen) Dennis-right, uh, uh ... local kid probably, would meetcha in front of the movie house on Saturday night. 
 ANNIE'S VOICE Oh, God, you should've seen what I looked like then. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (Off screen, laughing) Oh, I can imagine.  P-p-probably the wife of an astronaut. 
 ANNIE'S VOICE Then there was Jerry, the actor. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (Laughing) Look at you, you-you,-re such a clown. 
 ANNIE'S VOICE I look pretty. 
 ALVY'S VOICE Well, yeah, you always look pretty, but that guy with you ... 
 Acting is like an exploration of the soul. I-it's very religious.  Uh, like, uh, a kind of liberating consciousness.  It's like a visual poem. 
 (Laughing) Is he kidding with that crap? 
 (Laughing) Oh, right.  Right, yeah, I think I know exactly what you mean, when you say "religious." 
 (Incredulous, to Annie) You do? 
 (Still watching) Oh, come on-I mean, I was still younger. 
 Hey, that was last year. 
 It's like when I think of dying.  You know how I would like to die? 
 No, how? 
 I'd like to get torn apart by wild animals. 
 ALVY'S VOICE Heavy!  Eaten by some squirrels. 
 ANNIE'S VOICE Hey, listen-I mean, he was a terrific actor, and look at him, he's neat-looking and he was emotional ... Y-hey, I don't think you like emotion too much. 
 Touch my heart ... with your foot. 
 ALVY'S VOICE I-I may throw up! 
 He was creepy. 
 Yeah, I-I think you're pretty lucky I came along. 
 (Laughing) Oh, really?  Well, la-de-da! 
 La-de-da.  If I-if anyone had ever told me that I would be taking out a girl who used expressions like "la-de-da" . . . 
 Oh, that's right.  That you really like those New York girls. 
 Well, no ... not just, not only. 
 Oh, I'd say so.  You married- 
 (Off screen) -two of them. 
 There's Henry Drucker.  He has a chair in history at Princeton.  Oh, the short man is Hershel Kaminsky.  He has a chair in philosophy at Cornell. 
 Yeah, two more chairs and they got a dining-room set. 
 Why are you so hostile? 
 (Sighing) 'Cause I wanna watch the Knicks on television. 
 (Squinting) Is that Paul Goodman?  No. And be nice to the host because he's publishing my book.  Hi, Doug!  Douglas Wyatt. "A Foul-Rag-and-Bone Shop-of-the-Heart." 
 (Taking Robin's hand) I'm so tired of spending evenings making fake insights with people who work for Dysentery. 
 Commentary. 
 Oh, really, I heard that Commentary and Dissent had merged and formed Dysentery. 
 No jokes-these are friends, okay? 
 (Off screen) Cleveland Cavaliers losing to the New York Knicks. 
 Here you are.  There's people out there. 
 Hey, you wouldn't believe this.  Two minutes ago, the Knicks are ahead fourteen points, and now ... (Clears his throat) they're ahead two points. 
 Alvy, what is so fascinating about a group of pituitary cases trying to stuff the ball through a hoop? 
 (Looking at Robin) What's fascinating is that it's physical. You know, it's one thing about intellectuals, they prove that you can be absolutely brilliant and have no idea what's going on.  But on the other hand ... (Clears his throat) the body doesn't lie, as-as we now know. 
 Stop acting out. 
 No, it'll be great!  It'll be great, be-because all those Ph.D.'s are in there, you know, like ... discussing models of alienation and we'll be in here quietly humping. 
 Alvy, don't!  You're using sex to express hostility. 
 "'Why-why do you always r-reduce my animal urges to psychoanalytic categories?' (Clears his throat) he said as he removed her brassiere..." 
 (Pulling away again) There are people out there from The New Yorker magazine.  My God!  What would they think? 
 Oh, I'm sorry! 
 Don't get upset! 
 Dammit!  I was so close. 
 (Gesturing) Jesus, last night it was some guy honking his car horn.  I mean, the city can't close down.  You know, what-whatta yuh gonna do, h-have 'em shut down the airport, too?  No more flights so we can have sex? 
 (Reaching over for her eyeglasses on the night table) I'm too tense.  I need a Valium.  My analyst says I should live in the country and not in New York. 
 Well, I can't li- We can't have this discussion all the time.  The country makes me nervous.  There's ... You got crickets and it-it's quiet ... there's no place to walk after dinner, and... uh, there's the screens with the dead moths behind them, and... uh, yuh got the-the Manson family possibly, yuh got Dick and Terry- 
 (Interrupting) Okay, okay, my analyst just thinks I'm too tense.  Where's the goddamn Valium? 
 Hey, come on, it's quiet now.  We can-we can start again. 
 I can't. 
 What- 
 My head is throbbing. 
 Oh, you got a headache! 
 I have a headache. 
 Bad? 
 Oswald and ghosts. 
 Jesus! 
 Where are you going? 
 Well, I'm-I'm gonna take another in a series of cold showers. 
 Max, my serve is gonna send yuh to the showers- 
 Right, right, so g-get back to what we were discussing, the failure of the country to get behind New York City is-is anti-Semitism. 
 Max, the city is terribly worried. 
 But the- I'm not discussing politics or economics.  This is foreskin. 
 No, no, no, Max, that's a very convenient out.  Every time some group disagrees with you it's because of anti-Semitism. 
 Don't you see?  The rest of the country looks upon New York like we're-we're left-wing Communist, Jewish, homosexual, pornographers. I think of us that way, sometimes, and I-I live here. 
 Max, if we lived in California, we could play outdoors every day, in the sun. 
 Sun is bad for yuh.  Everything our parents said was good is bad.  Sun, milk, red meat, college ... 
 (Laughing) I know, but ooh- here he comes.  Okay. 
 You know Alvy? 
 Oh, hi, Alvy. 
 (To Rob) How are yuh? 
 (To Alvy) You know Annie? 
 I'm sorry.  This is Annie Hall. 
 Hi. 
 Hi. 
 (Laughing) Alvy. 
 (Eager to begin) Who's playing who here?  Alvy Well, uh ... you and me against them? 
 (Overlapping Alvy) Well ... so ... I can't play too good, you know. 
 (Laughing) I've had four lessons! 
 (Hitting the halt back) Holy gods! 
 Hi.  Hi, hi. 
 (Looking over his shoulder) Hi.  Oh, hi.  Hi. 
 (Hands clasped in front of her, smiling) Well, bye. She laughs and backs up slowly toward the door. 
 (Clearing his throat) You-you play ... very well. 
 Oh, yeah?  So do you.  Oh, God, whatta- (Making sounds and laughing) whatta dumb thing to say, right?  I mean, you say it, "You play well," and right away ... I have to say well.  Oh, oh ... God, Annie. (She gestures with her hand) Well ... oh, well ... la-de-da, la-de-da, la-la. 
 (Still looking over his shoulder) Uh ... you-you wanna lift? 
 (Turning and aiming her thumb over her shoulder) Oh, why-uh ... y-y-you gotta car? 
 No, um ... I was gonna take a cab. 
 (Laughing) Oh, no, I have a car. 
 You have a car? (Annie smiles, hands folded in front of her) So ... (Clears his throat) I don't understand why ... if you have a car, so then-then wh-why did you say "Do you have a car?"... like you wanted a lift? 
 I don't ... (Laughing) I don't ... Geez, I don't know, I've ... I wa- This ... yeah, I got this VW out there ... (Laughing and gesturing toward the door) What a jerk, yeah.  Would you like a lift? 
 (Zipping up his bag) Sure.  W-w-w-which way yuh goin'? 
 Me?  Oh, downtown! 
 Down- I'm-I'm goin' uptown. 
 (Laughing) Oh, well, I'm goin' uptown, too. 
 Uh, well, you just said you were going downtown. 
 Yeah, well, I'm, but I ... 
 (Laughing) So sorry. 
 (Laughing) I mean, I can go uptown, too.  I live uptown, but ... uh, what the hell, I mean, it'd be nice having company, you know I mean, I hate driving alone. 
 (Making sounds) Yeah. 
 So, how long do you know Janet?  Where do you know her from? 
 (Laughing) Oh, I'm in her acting class. 
 Oh - you're an actress. 
 Well, I do commercials, sort of ... 
 I, uh ... well, you're not from New York, right? 
 No, Chippewa Falls. 
 Right! (A pause) Where? 
 Wisconsin. 
 (Finally reacting) Uh, you're driving a- 
 Uh, don't worry, I'm a very- (A car moves closer to the VW, almost on top of it in the wrong direction.  Annie swerves away at the very last minute) -a very good driver. (Alvy rubs his head nervously, staring out the window as Annie speeds along) So, listen-hey, you want some gum, anyway? 
 No, no thanks.  Hey, don't- 
 Well, where is it?  I- 
 No, no, no, no, you just ... just watch the road.  I'll get it- 
 Okay. 
 -for yuh. 
 Okay, that's good. 
 All right. 
 I'll getcha a piece. 
 Yeah ... so, listen-you drive? 
 Do I drive?  Uh, no, I gotta-I gotta problem with driving. 
 Oh, you do? 
 Yeah.  I got, uh, I got a license but I have too much hostility. 
 Oh, right. 
 Nice car. 
 (A bit rapidly) Huh? 
 You keep it nice. (He pulls a half-eaten sandwich out of her bag) Can I ask you, is this-is this a sandwich? 
 Huh?  Oh, yeah. 
 I live over here.  Oh, my God!  Look! There's a parking space! 
 That's okay, you ... we-we can walk to the curb from here. 
 Don't be funny. 
 You want your tennis stuff? 
 Huh?  Oh ... yeah. 
 You want your gear?  Here you go. 
 (Laughing) Yeah, thanks.  Thanks a lot.  Well... 
 (Sighing) Well, thanks, thank you.  You-you're a wonderful tennis player. 
 (Laughing) Oh. 
 You're the worst driver I've ever seen in my life . . . that's including any place ... the worst ... Europe, United ... any place ... Asia. 
 (Laughing) Yeah. 
 And I love what you're wearin'. 
 Oh, you do?  Yeah?  Oh, well, it's uh ... this is, uh ... this tie is a present, from Grammy Hall. 
 Who?  Grammy?  Grammy Hall? 
 (Laughing and nodding her head) Yeah, my grammy. 
 You're jo- Whatta yuh kid- What did you do, grow up in a Norman Rockwell painting? 
 (Laughing) Yeah, I know. 
 Your grammy! 
 I know, it's pretty silly, isn't it? 
 Jesus, my-my grammy ... n-never gave gifts, you know.  She-she was	too busy getting raped by Cossacks. 
 (Laughing) Well ... 
 Well ... thank you again. 
 Oh, yeah, yeah. 
 I'll see yuh. 
 (Overlapping, gesturing) Hey, well, listen ... hey, you wanna come upstairs and, uh ... and have a glass of wine and something?  Aw, no, I mean ... I mean, you don't have to, you're probably late and everything else ... 
 No, no, that'll be fine. I don't mind. Sure. 
 You sure? 
 (Overlapping) No, I got time. 
 Okay. 
 Sure, I got ... I got nothing, uh, nothing till my analyst's appointment. 
 Oh, you see an analyst? 
 Y-y-yeah, just for fifteen years. 
 Fifteen years? 
 Yeah, uh, I'm gonna give him one more year and then I'm goin' to Lourdes. 
 Fifteen-aw, come on, you're . . . yeah, really? 
 Sylvia Plath. 
 M'hm... 
 Interesting poetess whose tragic suicide was misinterpreted as romantic, by the college-girl mentality. 
 Oh, yeah. 
 Oh, sorry. 
 Right.  Well, I don't know, I mean, uh, some of her poems seem - neat, you know. 
 Neat? 
 Neat, yeah. 
 Uh, I hate to tell yuh, this is nineteen seventy-five, you know that "neat" went out, I would say, at the turn of the century. (Annie laughs) Who-who are-who are those photos on the wall? 
 (Moving over to the photographs) Oh ... oh, well, you see now now, uh, that's my dad, that's Father-and that's my ... brother, Duane. 
 Duane? 
 (Pointing) Yeah, right, Duane-and over there is Grammy Hall, and that's Sadie. 
 Well, who's Sadie? 
 Sadie?  Oh, well, Sadie... (Laughing) Sadie met Grammy through, uh, through Grammy's brother George.  Uh, George was real sweet, you know, he had that thing. What is that thing where you, uh, where you, uh, fall asleep in the middle of a sentence, you know-what is it?  Uh ... 
 Uh, narcolepsy. 
 Narcolepsy, right, right.  Right.  So, anyway, so ... (Laughing) George, uh, went to the union, see, to get his free turkey, be-because, uh, the union always gave George this big turkey at Christmas time because he was ... (Annie points her fingers to each side of her head, indicating George was a little crazy) shell-shocked, you know what I mean, in the First World War. (Laughing hysterically, she opens a cabinet door and takes out a bottle of wine) Anyway, so, so ... (Laughing through the speech) George is standing in line, oh, just a sec ...uh, getting his free turkey, but the thing is, he falls asleep and he never wakes up. So, so... (Laughing) so, he's dead ... (Laughing) he's dead.  Yeah.  Oh, dear.  Well, terrible, huh, wouldn't you say?  I mean, that's pretty unfortunate. 
 Yeah, it's a great story, though, I mean, I... I ... it really made my day. Hey, I think I should get outta here, you know, 'cause I think I'm imposing, you know ... 
 (Laughing) Oh, really?  Oh, well ... uh, uh, maybe, uh, maybe, we, uh ... 
 ... and ... uh, yeah, uh ... uh, you know, I-I-I... 
 Well, I mean, you don't have to, you know. 
 No, I know, but ... but, you know, I'm all perspired and everything. 
 Well, didn't you take, uh ... uh, a shower at the club? 
 Me?  No, no, no, 'cause I never shower in a public place. 
 (Laughing) Why not? 
 'Cause I don't like to get naked in front of another man, you know-it's, uh ... 
 (Laughing) Oh, I see, I see. 
 You know, I don't like to show my body to a man of my gender- 
 Yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Yeah, I see.  I guess- 
 -'cause, uh, you never know what's gonna happen. 
 (Sipping her wine and laughing) Fifteen years, huh? 
 Fifteen years, yeah. 
 Yeah.  Oh, God bless! 
 God bless. 
 (Laughing) Well, uh ... (Pausing) You're what Grammy Hall would call a real Jew. 
 (Clearing his throat) Oh, thank you. 
 (Smiling) Yeah, well ... you-She hates Jews.  She thinks that they just make money, but let me tell yuh, I mean, she's the one yeah, is she ever.  I'm tellin' yuh. 
 (pointing toward the apartment after a short pause) So, did you do shoot the photographs in there or what? 
 (Nodding, her hand on her hip) Yeah, yeah, I sorta dabble around, you know. 
 They're ... they're... they're wonderful, you know.  They have ... they have, uh ... a ... a quality. 
 Well, I-I-I would-I would like to take a serious photography course soon. 
 Photography's interesting, 'cause, you know, it's-it's a new art form, and a, uh, a set of aesthetic criteria have not emerged yet. 
 Aesthetic criteria?  You mean, whether it's, uh, good photo or not? 
 The-the medium enters in as a condition of the art form itself.  That's- 
 Well, well, I ... to me-I ... I mean, it's-it's-it's all instinctive, you know.  I mean, I just try to uh, feel it, you know?  I try to get a sense of it and not think about it so much. 
 Still, still we- You need a set of aesthetic guide lines to put it in social perspective, I think. 
 Well, I don't know.  I mean, I guess-I guess you must be sorta late, huh? 
 You know, I gotta get there and begin whining soon ... otherwise I- Hey ... well, are you busy Friday night? 
 Me?  Oh, uh. (Laughing) No. 
 (Putting his band on his forehead) Oh, I'm sorry, wait a minute, I have something.  Well, what about Saturday night? 
 (Nodding) Oh ... nothing.  Not-no, no! 
 Oh, you ... you're very popular, I can see. 
 (Laughing) I know. 
 Gee, boy, what do you have?  You have plague? 
 Well, I mean, I meet a lot of ... jerks, you know- 
 Yeah, I meet a lotta jerks, too. 
 (Overlapping) -what I mean? 
 I think that's, uh- 
 (Interrupting) But I'm thinking about getting some cats, you know, and then they ... Oh, wait a second-oh, no, no, I mean (Laughing) oh, shoot!  No, Saturday night I'm gonna- (Laughing) gonna sing.  Yeah. 
 You're gonna sing?  Do you sing?  Well, no, it isn't (Overlapping) No kidding? (Overlapping) -this is my first time.  Oh, really?  Where? I'd like to come. (Laughing) Oh, no, no, no, no, no!  No, I'm interested! 
 (Laughing) Oh, no-I mean, I'm just a-auditioning sort of at club.  I don't- 
 (Overlapping) No, so help me. 
 (Overlapping) -it's my first time. 
 That's okay, 'cause I know exactly what that's like.  Listen- 
 (Interrupting) Yeah. 
 (Overlapping) -you're gonna like night clubs, they're really a lotta fun. 
 I was awful.  I'm so ashamed!  I can't sing. 
 Oh, listen, so the audience was a tad restless. 
 Whatta you mean, a tad restless?  Oh, my God, I mean, they hated me. 
 No, they didn't.  You have a wonderful voice. 
 No, I'm gonna quit! 
 No, I'm not gonna letcha.  You have a great voice. 
 Really, do you think so, really? 
 Yeah! 
 Yeah? 
 It's terrific. 
 (Overlapping) Yeah, you know something?  I never even took a lesson, either. 
 Hey, listen, listen. 
 What? 
 Gimme a kiss. 
 Really? 
 Yeah, why not, because we're just gonna go home later, right? 
 Yeah. 
 And-and uh, there's gonna be all that tension.  You know, we never kissed before and I'll never know when to make the right move or anything.  So we'll kiss now we'll get it over with and then we'll go eat. Okay? 
 Oh, all right. 
 And we'll digest our food better. 
 Okay. 
 Okay? 
 Yeah. 
 So now we can digest our food. 
 We can digest our- 
 Okay. Yeah. 
 (To the waiter) I'm gonna have a corned beef. 
 (To the waiter) Yeah ... oh, uh, and I'm gonna have a pastrami on white bread with, uh, mayonnaise and tomatoes and lettuce. (Alvy involuntarily makes a face as the waiter leaves) Tsch, so, uh, your second wife left you and, uh, were you depressed about that? 
 Nothing that a few mega-vitamins couldn't cure. 
 Oh.  And your first wife was Allison? 
 My first... Yes, she was nice, but you know, uh, it was my fault.  I was just... I was too crazy. 
 Oh. 
 M'm, that was so nice.  That was nice. 
 As Balzac said ... 
 H'm? 
 "There goes another novel." (They laugh) Jesus, you were great. 
 Oh, yeah? 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah? 
 Yeah, I'm-I'm-I'm a wreck. 
 No. (She turns and looks at Alvy, then laughs) You're a wreck. 
 Really.  I mean it.  I-I'll never play the piano again. 
 (Lighting a joint and laughing) You're really nuts.  I don't know, you really thought it was good?  Tell me. 
 Good?  I was- 
 (Overlapping) No. 
 No, that was the most fun I've ever had without laughing. 
 (Laughing) Here, you want some? 
 No, no, I-I-i, uh, I don't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and 
 Yeah? 
 -tried to take my pants off over my head ... (Annie laughs) ...  my ear. 
 Oh, I don't know, I don't really.  I don't do it very often, you know, just sort of, er ... relaxes me at first. 
 M'hm. (He pushes himself up from the bed and looks down at Annie) You're not gonna believe this, but- 
 What?  What? 
 Hey? 
 H'm? 
 I-I-I'm gonna buy you these books, I think, because I-I think you should read them.  You know, instead of that cat book. 
 (Looking at the books Alvy is bolding) That's, uh ... (Laughing) that's pretty serious stuff there. 
 Yeah, 'cause I-I'm, you know, I'm, I'm obsessed with-with, uh, with death, I think.  Big- 
 (Overlapping) Yeah? 
 -big subject with me, yeah. 
 Yeah? 
 (Gesturing) I've a very pessimistic view of life. You should know this about me if we're gonna go out, you know. I-I-I feel that life is-is divided up into the horrible and the miserable. 
 M'hm. 
 Those are the two categories ... 
 M'hm. 
 ... you know, they're- The-the horrible would be like, uh, I don't know, terminal cases, you know? 
 M'hm. 
 And blind people, crippled ... 
 Yeah. 
 I don't-don't know how they get through life.  It's amazing to me. 
 M'hm. 
 You know, and the miserable is everyone else.  That's-that's all.  So-so when you go through life you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's- You're very lucky ... to be ... (Overlapping Annie's laughter) ... to be miserable. 
 U-huh. 
 Look, look at that guy. 
 M'hm. 
 There's-there's-there's-there's Mr. When-in-the-Pink, Mr. Miami Beach, there, you know? (Over Annie's laughter) He's the latest! just came back from the gin-rummy farm last night. He placed third. 
 (Laughing) M'hm.  Yeah.  Yeah. 
 (Watching two men approach, one lighting a cigar) Look at these guys. 
 Yeah. 
 Oh, that's hilarious.  They're back from Fire Island.  They're ... they're sort of giving it a chance-you know what I mean? 
 Oh! Italian, right? 
 Yeah, he's the Mafia.  Linen Supply Business or Cement and Contract, you know what I mean? 
 (Laughing) Oh, yeah. 
 No, I'm serious. (Over Annie's laughter) I just got my mustache wet. 
 Oh, yeah? 
 (As another man walks by) And there's the winner of the Truman Capote look-alike contest. 
 You see, like you and I ... 
 You are extremely sexy. 
 No, I'm not. 
 Unbelievably sexy.  Yes, you are. Because ... you know what you are? You're-you're polymorphously perverse. 
 Well, what does-what does that mean? I don't know what that is. 
 Uh ... uh, you're-you're exceptional in bed because you got -you get pleasure in every part of your body when I touch you. 
 Ooooh! 
 You know what I mean?  Like the tip o'your nose, and if I stroke your teeth or your kneecaps ... you get excited. 
 Come on. (Laughing) Yeah.  You know what?  You know, I like you, I really mean it.  I really do like you. 
 You- Do you love me? 
 Do I love you? 
 That's the key question. 
 Yeah. 
 I know you've only known me a short while. 
 Well, I certainly ... I think that's very- Yeah, yeah ... (Laughing) yeah.  Do you love me? 
 I-uh, love is, uh, is too weak a word for what... 
 Yeah. 
 - I ... I love you. (Over Annie's laughter) You know I lo-ove you, I-I love you. (Over Annie's laughter) I-I have to invent- Of course I love you. 
 Yeah. 
 (Putting his arms around her neck) Don't you think I do? 
 I dunno. 
 Whatta you mean?  You're not gonna give up your own apartment, are you? 
 (Putting down the carton) Of course. 
 Yeah, bu-bu-but why? 
 Well, I mean, I'm moving in with you, that's why. 
 Yeah, but you-you got a nice apartment. 
 I have a tiny apartment. 
 Yeah, I know it's small. 
 (Picking up the suitcases and walking into the bedroom) That's right, and it's got bad plumbing and bugs. 
 (Picking up some pictures and following Annie into the bedroom) All right, granted, it has bad plumbing and bugs, but you-you say that like it's a negative thing.  You know, bugs are-are-uh, entomology is a ... (Annie, reacting, tosses the suitcases and some loose clothing onto the bed.  She sits down on the edge, looking away. Alvy walks in, pictures and carton in band, still talking) ... rapidly growing field. 
 You don't want me to live with you? 
 How- I don't want you to live with me? How- Whose idea was it? 
 Mine. 
 Ye-ah.  Was it ... It was yours actually, but, uh, I approved it immediately. 
 I guess you think that I talked you into something, huh? (putting pictures on the mantel) 
 No-what, what ...? I ... we live together, we sleep together, we eat together.  Jesus, you don't want it to be like we're married, do yuh? 
 (Looking up at Alvy) How is it any different? 
 (Gesturing) It's different 'cause you keep your own apartment. (Holding a book, he starts walking around the room) Because you know it's there, we don't have to go to it, we don't have to deal with it, but it's like a-a-a free-floating life raft ... that we know that we're not married. 
 (Still sitting on the bed) That little apartment is four hundred dollars a month, Alvy. 
 (Looking at Annie) That place is four hundred dollars a month? 
 Yes, it is. 
 (Whistling) It's-it's got bad plumbing and bugs.  Jesus, I'll-My accountant will write it off as a tax deduction, I'll pay for it. 
 (Shaking her head) You don't think I'm smart enough to be serious about. 
 Hey, don't be ridiculous. 
 Then why are you always pushing me to take those college courses like I was dumb or something? 
 (Putting his hand to his forehead) 'Cause adult education's a wonderful thing. You meet a lotta interesting professors. You know, it's stimulating. 
 (Reading) Does this sound like a good course? Uh, "Modern American Poetry"?  Uh, or, uh-let's see now ... maybe I should, uh, take "Introduction to the Novel." 
 Just don't take any course where they make you read Beowulf. 
 What? (Laughing) Hey, listen, what-what do you think?  Do you think we should, uh, go to that-that party in Southampton tonight? 
 No, don't be silly.  What-what do we need other people for? (He puts his arms around her neck, kissing her, Annie making muffled sounds) You know, we should-we should just turn out the lights, you know, and play hide and seek or something. 
 (Laughing) Well, okay.  Well, listen, I'm gonna get a cigarette, okay? 
 (Yelling out to her as she leaves the room) Yeah, grass, right?  The illusion that it will make a white woman more like Billie Holiday. 
 (Off screen) Well, have you ever made love high? 
 Me, no.  You ... I-I-you know, if I have grass or alcohol or anything I get unbearably wonderful.  I get too, too wonderful for words.  You know, I don't-I don't know why you have to, uh, get high every time we make love. 
 (Moving back into the room and lighting a joint) It relaxes me. 
 Oh, you-you have to be artificially relaxed before we can go to bed? 
 (Closing the door) Well, what's the difference, anyway? 
 Well, I'll give you a shot of sodium pentothal.  You can sleep through it. 
 Oh, come on, look who's talking.  You've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years. (She gets into bed and takes a puff of marijuana) You should smoke some o' this.  You'd be off the couch in no time. 
 Oh, come, you don't need that. 
 What are you doing? 
 (Kissing her) No, no, no, what ... You can once, you can live without it once.  Come on. 
 Oh, no, Alvy, please. Alvy, please. (Laughing and making sounds) M'mrnm. 
 M'm, wait, I got a great idea. (He gets up and goes over to the closet, taking out a light bulb. He goes back to the bed and turns out the lamp on the night table) Hang in there for a second.  I got a little-little artifact.  A little erotic artifact, that-that I brought up from the city, which I think, uh, is gonna be perfect. (He turns the lamp back on, having replaced the bulb with the red one from the closet) I just ... there ... There's a little Old New Orleans ... essence.  Now-now we can go about our business here and we can even develop photographs if we want to.  There, now there. (He undresses and crawls into bed, taking Annie in his arms) M'mmm.  M'mmm.  Hey, is something wrong? 
 
 I don't know.  You- It's like you're- you're removed. 
 No, I'm fine. 
 Really? 
 U-huh. 
 I don't know, but you seem sort of distant. 
 Let's just do it, all right? 
 (Kissing and caressing Annie) Is it my imagination or are you just going through the motions? 
 ANNIE'S SPIRIT Alvy, do you remember where I put my drawing pad?  Because while you two are doing that, I think I'm gonna do some drawing. 
 (Reacting) You see, that's what I call removed. 
 Oh, you have my body. 
 Yeah, but that's not-that's no good. I want the whole thing. 
 (Sighing) Well, I need grass and so do you. 
 Well, it ruins it for me if you have grass (Clearing his throat) because, you know, I'm, like, a comedian- 
 (Overlapping) M'hm. 
 (Overlapping) -so if I get a laugh from a person who's high, it doesn't count.  You know-'cause they're always laughin'. 
 Were you always funny? 
 Hey, what is this-an interview?  We're supposed to be making love. 
 This guy is naturally funny.  I think he can write for you. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (To himself) Jesus, this guy's pathetic. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (To himself while the comic continues his routine) Look at him mincing around, like he thinks he's real cute.  You wanna throw up.  If only I had the nerve to do my own jokes.  I don't know how much longer I can keep this smile frozen on my face. I'm in the wrong business, I know it. 
 (Gesturing) W-where am I? I-I keep ... I have to reorient myself.  This is the University of Wisconsin, right?  So I'm always ... I'm tense and ... uh, when I'm playin' a col- I've a very bad history with colleges. You know, I went to New York University and, uh, tsch, I was thrown out of NYU my freshman year ... for cheating on my metaphysics final. You know, I looked within the soul of the boy sitting next to me- (The audience laughs; they're with him) -and when I was thrown out, my mother, who's an emotionally high-strung woman, locked herself in the bathroom and took an overdose of mah-jongg tiles. (More applause and laughter) And, uh, tsch, I was depressed.  I was ... in analysis, I-I, uh, was suicidal; as a matter of fact, uh, I would have killed myself but I was in analysis with a strict Freudian and if you kill yourself ... they make you pay for the sessions you miss. 
 Alvy, you were ... Alvy, you were just great, I'm not kidding.  It was- You were so neat. 
 C-c-coll- College audiences are so wonderful. 
 Yeah.  Yeah.  And you know something? I think that I'm starting to get more of your references, too. 
 Are yuh? 
 Yeah. 
 Well, the twelve o'clock show is completely different than the nine. 
 (Interrupting) May I have your autograph? 
 (Over lapping above speech) Oh. 
 (To Annie, while autographing) You're so sure about it. 
 Oh, I'm really, uh, looking forward to tomorrow.  I mean, you know, I think that it'll be really nice to meet Mother and Father. 
 Yeah, I know, they'll hate me immediately. (To one of his fans) Thank you. 
 No, I don't think so.  No, I don't think they're gonna hate you at all.  On the contrary, I think- 
 Yeah. 
 It's Easter.  You know, we'll have a nice dinner, we'll sit down and eat.  I think they're gonna really like you. 
 (Holding her wine glass) It's a nice ham this year, Mom. 
 (Smiling at Duane) Oh, yeah.  Grammy always does such a good job. 
 (Chewing) A great sauce. 
 It is. (Smacking his lips) It's dynamite ham. 
 (To Dad Hall, smoothing her hair) We went over to the swap meet.  Annie, Gram and I. Got some nice picture frames. 
 We really had a good time. 
 (Lighting a cigarette and turning to Alvy) Ann tells us that you've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years. 
 (Setting down his glass and coughing) Yes.  I'm making excellent progress. Pretty soon when I lie down on his couch, I won't have to wear the lobster bib. 
 Duane and I went out to the boat basin. 
 We were caulkin' holes all day. 
 Yeah. (Laughing) Randolph Hunt was drunk, as usual. 
 Oh, that Randolph Hunt.  You remember Randy Hunt, Annie.  He was in the choir with you. 
 Oh, yes, yes. 
 (To the audience) I can't believe this family. (Making chewing sounds) Annie's mother.  She really's beautiful. And they're talkin' swap meets and boat basins, and the old lady at the end of the table (Pointing to Grammy) is a classic Jew hater.  And, uh, they, they realty look American, you know, very healthy and ... like they never get sick or anything.  Nothing like my family.  You know, the two are like oil and water. 
 ALVY'S FATHER Let 'im drop dead!  Who needs his business?! 
 ALVY'S MOTHER His wife has diabetes! 
 ALVY'S FATHER Di-diabetes?  Is that any excuse? Diabetes? 
 ALVY'S UNCLE The man is fifty years old and doesn't have a substantial job. 
 ALVY'S AUNT (Putting more meat on her husband's plate) Is that a reason to steal from his father? 
 ALVY'S UNCLE Whatta you talkin' about?  You don't know what you're talking about. 
 ALVY'S AUNT Yes, I know what I'm talking about. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER (Interrupting) George, defend him! 
 ALVY'S UNCLE (Over Alvy's father's muttering) No Moskowitz he had a coronary. 
 ALVY'S AUNT You don't say. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER We fast. 
 Stupid Thelma Poindexter ... to the Veterans Hospital. 
 My God, he's the new president of the El Regis.  Let me tell you, the man is somethin' else. 
 That's Jack's wife.  We used to make that outta raisins. 
 Oh, yes, that's right.  Did you see the new play? 
 Oh, you remember her, Annie. 
 Yes, I do. 
 How do you plan to spend the holidays, Mrs. Singer? 
 Fast? 
 ALVY'S FATHER Yeah, no food.  You know, we have to atone for our sins. 
 What sins?  I don't understand. 
 ALVY'S FATHER Tell you the truth, neither do we. 
 Alvy. 
 (Walking in) Oh, hi, Duane, how's it goin'? 
 This is my room. 
 (Looking around) Oh, yeah? (He clears his throat) Terrific. 
 Can I confess something? 
 I tell you this because, as an artist, I think you'll understand.  Sometimes when I'm driving ... on the road at night ... I see two headlights coming toward me. Fast.  I have this sudden impulse to turn the wheel quickly, head-on into the oncoming car.  I can anticipate the explosion.  The sound of shattering glass. The ... flames rising out of the flowing gasoline. 
 (Reacting and clearing his throat) Right.  Tsch, well, I have to-I have t-o go now, Duane, because I-I'm due back on the planet earth. 
 Now, don't let it be so long, now. 
 No. 
 And look up Uncle Bill, you promise. 
 Okay.  Okay. 
 Oh, he's adorable, Annie. 
 You think so?  Do you really? 
 We're going to take them to the airport. 
 Oh, no-Duane can.  I haven't finished my drink. 
 Yes, Duane is.  I'll be right- 
 M'mmm. 
 I just have time to get the, uh- 
 (Off screen) You followed me.  I can't believe it! 
 (Off screen) I didn't follow you! 
 You followed me! 
 Why?  'Cause I ... was walkin' along a block behind you staring at you? That's not following! 
 Well, what is your definition of following? 
 (Gasping) Following is different.  I was spying. 
 Do you realize how paranoid you are? 
 Paranoid?  I'm looking at you.  You got your arms around another guy. 
 That is the worst kind of paranoia. 
 Yeah-well, I didn't start out spying. I-I thought I'd surprise yuh.  Pick you up after school. 
 Yeah-well, you wanted to keep the relationship flexible, remember? It's your phrase. 
 Oh, stop it.  But you were having an affair with your college professor. That jerk that teaches that incredible crap course "Contemporary Crisis in Western Man"! 
 "Existential Motifs in Russian Literature"! You're really close. 
 What's the difference?  It's all mental masturbation. 
 (Stopping for a moment) Oh, well, now we're finally getting to a subject you know something about! 
 (Catching up to her) Hey, don't knock masturbation!  It's sex with someone I love. 
 (Continuing to walk quickly) We're not having an affair.  He's married. He just happens to think I'm neat. 
 (Still walking next to her) "Neat"!  There's that- What are you-twelve years old?  That's one o' your Chippewa Falls expressions!  "He thinks I'm neat." 
 Who cares?  Who cares? 
 Next thing you know he'll find you keen and peachy, you know?  Next thing you know he's got his hand on your ass! 
 You've always had hostility toward David ever since I mentioned him! 
 David?  You call your teacher David? 
 It's his name. 
 Well, listen, that's, a nice bi-it's a biblical name.  Right?  W-What does he call you?  Bathsheba? 
 (Calling after him) Alvy!  Alvy!  You're the one who never wanted to make a real commitment.  You don't think I'm smart enough!  We had that argument just last month, or don't ou remember that day? 
 (Off screen) I'm home! 
 (Turning) Oh, yeah?  How'd it go? 
 (Comes into the kitchen and puts down a bag of groceries on the kitchen table) Oh, it was ... (Laughing) really weird.  But she's a very nice woman. 
 Yeah? 
 And I didn't have to lie down on the couch, Alvy, she had me sitting up.  So I told her about-about the-the family and about my feelings toward men and about my relationship with my brother. 
 M'm. 
 And then she mentioned penis envy ... Did you know about that? 
 Me?  I'm-I'm one of the few males who suffers from that, so, so ... you know. 
 M'hm. 
 G-go on, I'm interested. 
 Well, she said that I was very guilty about my impulses toward marriage, and-and children. 
 M'hm. 
 And then I remembered when I was a kid how I accidentally saw my parents making love. 
 Tsch.  Rea- All this happened in the first hour? 
 M'hm. 
 That's amazing. I-I-I ... I've been goin' for fifteen years, I-you know, I don't got ... nothing like that in- 
 Oh, I told her my dream and then I cried. 
 You cried?  I've never once cried. Fantastic ... 
 (Taking groceries from the bag) Yeah. 
 I whine. I-I-I sit and I whine. 
 In-in ... Alvy, in my dream Frank Sinatra is holding his pillow across my face and I can't breathe. 
 Sinatra? 
 Yeah, and he's strangling me ... 
 Yeah? 
 ... and I keep, you know, it's- 
 (Taking a bottle of juice and some celery from the bag) Well, well, sure ... because he's a singer and you're a singer, you know, so it's perfect.  So you're trying to suffocate yourself.  It-it makes perfect sense.  Uh, uh, that's a perfect analytic ... kind of insight. 
 (Pointing her finger at Alvy) She said, your name was Alvy Singer. 
 (Turning to Annie) Whatta you mean?  Me? 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, you.  Because in the dream ... I break Sinatra's glasses. 
 (Putting his band to his mouth) Sinatra had gl- You never said Sinatra had glasses.  So whatta you saying that I-I'm suffocating you? 
 (Turning, ajar in her hand) Oh, and God, Alvy, I did ... this really terrible thing to him.  Because then when he sang it was in this real high-pitched voice. 
 (Thinking) Tsch, what'd the doctor say? 
 (Putting away some groceries) Well, she said that I should probably come five times a week.  And you know something?  I don't think I mind analysis at all.  The only question is, Will it change my wife? 
 Will it change your wife? 
 Will it change my life? 
 Yeah, but you said, "Will it change my wife"! 
 No, I didn't. (Laughing) I said, "Will it change my life," Alvy. 
 You said, "Will it change. . ." Wife. Will it change ... 
 (Yelling out, angry) Life.  I said, "life." 
 (To the audience) She said, "Will it change my wife." You heard that because you were there so I'm not crazy. 
 And, Alvy ... and then I told her about how I didn't think you'd ever really take me seriously, because you don't think that I'm smart enough. 
 (To Annie's back, gesturing) Why do you always bring that up?  Because I encourage you to take adult-education courses?  I think it's a wonderful thing. You meet wonderful, interesting professors'. 
 Adult education is such junk!  The professors are so phony.  How can you do it? 
 A bit rapidly.  I don't care what you say about David, he's a perfectly fine teacher! 
 (Interrupting) David!  David!  I can't believe this! 
 And what are you doing following me around for, anyway? 
 I'm following you and David, if you- 
 (Interrupting) I just think we oughta call this relationship quits! 
 That's fine.  That's fine.  That's great! (He turns toward the camera as the cab drives away) Well, I don't know what I did wrong. (Gesturing) I mean, I can't believe this.  Somewhere she cooled off to me! (He walks up to an older woman walking down the street carrying groceries) Is it-is it something that I did? 
 (Scratching his head) Love fades.  God, that's a depressing thought. Have to ask you a question. (He stops another passer-by,a man) Don't go any further.  Now, with your wife in bed, d-d-does she need some kind o' artificial stimulation like-like marijuana? 
 (Continuing to walk) Large vibrating egg.  Well, I ask a psychopath, I get that kind of an answer. Jesus, I-I, uh, here ... (He moves up the sidewalk to a young trendy-looking couple, arms wrapped around each other) You-you look like a really happy couple. Uh, uh ... are you? 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah!  So ... so h-h-how do you account for it? 
 Uh, I'm very shallow and empty and I have no ideas and nothing interesting to say. 
 And I'm exactly the same way. 
 I see.  Well, that's very interesting. So you've managed to work out something, huh? 
 Right. 
 Yeah. 
 Oh, well, thanks very much for talking to me. 
 We never have any fun anymore. 
 Why not?  You're always leaning on me to improve myself. 
 I don't get a period!  I'm a cartoon character.  Can't I be upset once in a while? 
 I think there are more people here to see the Maharishi than there were to see the Dylan concert.  I covered the Dylan concert ... which gave me chills. Especially when he sang "She takes just like a woman And she makes love just like a woman Yes, she does And she aches just like a woman But she breaks just like a little girl." (They move toward the aisles as a guard holds up his hands to stop them) Up to that I guess the most charismatic event I covered was Mick's Birthday when the Stones played Madison Square Garden. 
 (Laughing) Man, that's great.  That's just great. 
 You catch Dylan? 
 (Coughing) Me?  No, no. I-I couldn't make it that ni- My-my raccoon had hepatitis. 
 You have a raccoon? 
 (Gesturing) Tsch, a few. 
 The only word for this is trans-plendid. It's trans-plendid. 
 I can think of another word. 
 He's God!  I mean, this man is God!  He's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment. 
 Really?  It must be a tremendous hem. 
 I'm a Rosicrucian myself. 
 Are you? 
 Yeah. 
 I can't get with any religion that advertises in Popular Mechanics.  Look- (The Maharisbi, a small, chunky man, walks out of the men's room, huge bodyguards flanking him while policemen bold back the crowds) there's God coming outta the men's room. 
 It's unbelievably trans-plendid!  I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy, remember? 
 Yeah, were yuh?  I was-I was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes. 
 (Looking down at him) I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish. 
 (Sighing) Oh, no, no, don't be ... tsch ... don't be silly.  You know, (Yawning) I'm startin' it-I'm startin' to get some feeling back in my jaw now. 
 Oh, sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience. 
 Oh, tsch, thank you.  H'm. 
 I mean that as a compliment. 
 (Making sounds) I think-I think there's too much burden placed on the orgasm, you know, to make up for empty areas in life. 
 Who said that? 
 (Rubbing his chin and shoulder) Uh, oh, I don't know.  It might have been Leopold and Loeb. (The telephone rings.  Alvy picks it up, rising up slightly from the bed, concerned, as he talks) Hello.  Oh, hi ... Uh, no, what-what's the matter?  What-what-what?  You sound terrible ... No, what- Sure I- Whatta yuh -what kind of an emergency? ... No, well, stay there.  Stay there, I'll come over right now.  I'll come over right now.  Just stay there, I'll come right over. 
 What's- It's me, open up. 
 (Opening the door) Oh. 
 Are you okay?  What's the matter? (They look at each other, Annie sighing) Are you all right?  What- 
 There's a spider in the bathroom. 
 (Reacting) What? 
 There's a big black spider in the bathroom. 
 That's what you got me here for at three o'clock in the morning, 'cause there's a spider in the bathroom? 
 My God, I mean, you know how I am about insects. 
 (Interrupting, sighing) Oooh. 
 -I can't sleep with a live thing crawling around in the bathroom. 
 Kill it!  For Go- What's wrong with you? Don't you have a can of Raid in the house? 
 (Shaking her head) No. 
 (Sighing) I told you a thousand times you should always keep, uh, a lotta insect spray. You never know who's gonna crawl over. 
 (Following him) I know, I know, and a first-aid kit and a fire extinguisher. 
 Jesus.  All right, gimme a magazine. I- 'cause I'm a little tired. (While Annie goes of to find him a magazine, Alvy, still talking, glances around the apartment.  He notices a small book on a cabinet and picks it up.) You know, you, you joke with-about me, you make fun of me, but I'm prepared for anything.  An emergency, a tidal wave, an earthquake.  Hey, what is this? What?  Did you go to a rock concert? 
 Yeah. 
 Oh, yeah, really?  Really?  How-how'd you like it?  Was it-was it, I mean, did it ... was it heavy?  Did it achieve total heavy-ocity?  Or was it, uh... 
 It was just great! 
 (Thumbing through the book) Oh, humdinger.  When- Well, I got a wonderful idea.  Why don'tcha get the guy who took you to the rock concert, we'll call him and he can come over and kill the spider.  You know, it's a- 
 I called you; you wanna help me ... or not?  H'h?  Here. 
 (Looking down at the magazine) What is this?  What are you, since when do you read the "National Review"? What are you turning in to? 
 (Turning to a nearby chair for some gum in her pocketbook) Well, I like to try to get all points of view. 
 It's wonderful.  Then why don'tcha get William F. Buckley to kill the spider? 
 (Spinning around to face him) Alvy, you're a little hostile, you know that?  Not only that, you look thin and tired. 
 Well, I was in be- It's three o'clock in the morning.  You, uh, you got me outta bed, I ran over here, I couldn't get a taxi cab.  You said it was an emergency, and I didn't ge- I ran up the stairs.  Hell - I was a lot more attractive when the evening began. Look, uh, tell- Whatta you- Are you going with a right-wing rock-and roll star?  Is that possible? 
 (Sitting down on a chair arm and looking up at Alvy) Would you like a glass of chocolate milk? 
 Hey, what am I-your son?  Whatta you mean? I-I came over TV --_ 
 (Touching his chest with her hand) I got the good chocolate, Alvy. 
 Yeah, where is the spider? 
 It really is lovely.  It's in the bathroom. 
 Is he in the bathroom? 
 (Rising from chair) Hey, don't squish it, and after it's dead, flush it down the toilet, okay? And flush it a couple o' times. 
 (Moving down the hallway to the bathroom) Darling, darling, I've been killing spiders since I was thirty, okay? 
 (Upset, hands on her neck) Oh.  What? 
 (Coming back into the living room) Very big spider. 
 Yeah? 
 Two ... Yeah.  Lotta, lotta trouble. There's two of 'em. 
 Two? 
 (Opening a closet door) Yep.  I didn't think it was that big, but it's a major spider.  You got a broom or something with a- 
 Oh, I-I left it at your house. 
 (Overlapping) -snow shovel or anything or something. 
 (Overlapping) I think I left it there, I'm sorry. 
 (Holding the racquet) Okay, let me have this. 
 Well, what are you doing ... what are you doing with- 
 Honey, there's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick. 
 Well, okay.  Oooh. 
 Hey, what is this?  You got black soap? 
 (Off screen) It's for my complexion. 
 Whatta-whatta yuh joining a minstrel show? Geez. (Alvy turns and starts swapping the racquet over the shelf, knocking down articles and breaking glass) Don't worry! (He continues to swat the racquet all over the bathroom.  He finally moves out of the room, hands close to his body.  He walks into the other room, where Annie is sitting in a corner of her bed leaning against the wall) I did it!  I killed them both.  What-what's the matter?  Whatta you- (Annie is sobbing, her band over her face) -whatta you sad about?  You- What'd you want me to do?  Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em? 
 (Sobbing and taking Alvy's arm) Oh, don't go, okay?  Please. 
 (Sitting down next to her) Whatta you mean, don't go?  Whatta-whatta -what's the matter?  Whatta you expecting -termites?  What's the matter? 
 (Sobbing) Oh, uh, I don't know.  I miss you.  Tsch. 
 Oh, Jesus, really? 
 (Leaning on his shoulder) Oh, yeah.  Oh. (They kiss) Oh!  Alvy? 
 What? 
 Was there somebody in your room when I called you? 
 W-w-whatta you mean? 
 I mean was there another- I thought I heard a voice. 
 Oh, I had the radio on. 
 Yeah? 
 I'm sorry.  I had the television set ... I had the television- 
 Yeah. 
 Alvy, let's never break up again.  I don't wanna be apart. 
 Oh, no, no, I think we're both much too mature for something like that. 
 Living together hasn't been so bad, has it? 
 It's all right for me, it's been terrific, you know?  Better than either one of my marriages.  See, 'cause. . . 'cause there's just something different about you.  I don't know what it is, but it's great. 
 (Snickering) You know I think that if you let me, maybe I could help you have more fun, you know? I mean, I know it's hard and ... Yeah. 
 I don't know. 
 Alvy, what about ... what if we go away this weekend, and we could- 
 Tsch, why don't we get ... why don't we get Rob, and the three of us'll drive into Brooklyn, you know, and we show you the old neighborhood. 
 Okay, okay.  Okay. 
 That'd be fun for yuh.  Don't you think- 
 Yeah. 
 -me, my God, it's a great day! 
 (Interrupting) Hey, can yuh watch the road?  Watch the -- 
 (Overlapping) Yeah, watch the road! 
 You'll total the whole car. 
 (Laughing) Hey, you know, I never even visited Brooklyn before. 
 I can't wait to see the old neighborhood. 
 Yeah, the neighborhood's gonna be great. 
 We can show her the schoolyard. 
 Right.  I was a great athlete.  Tell her, Max, I was the best, I was all schoolyard. 
 Yes, I remember. (Annie laughs) He was all schoolyard.  They threw him a football once, he tried to dribble it. 
 Yeah, well, I used to lose my glasses a lot. 
 Oh, look, look, there's that ... that's -that's my old house.  That's where I used to live. 
 (Laughing) Holy cow! 
 You're lucky, Max-where I used to live is now a pornographic equipment store. 
 I have some very good memories there. 
 What kind of good memories, Max? Your mother and father fighting all the time. 
 Yeah, and always over the most ridiculous things. 
 ALVY'S FATHER You fired the cleaning woman? 
 ALVY'S MOTHER She was stealing. 
 ALVY'S FATHER But she's colored. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER SO? 
 ALVY'S FATHER So the colored have enough trouble. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER She was going through my pocketbook! 
 ALVY'S FATHER They're persecuted enough! 
 ALVY'S MOTHER Who's persecuting?  She stole! 
 ALVY'S FATHER All right-so we can afford it. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER How can we afford it?  On your pay? What if she steals more? 
 ALVY'S FATHER She's a colored woman, from Harlem! She has no money!  She's got a right to steal from us!  After all, who is she gonna steal from if not us? 
 (Yelling into the scene) You're both crazy! 
 They can't hear you, Max. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER Leo ... I married a fool! 
 (Pointing) Hey, Max!  Who's that? 
 It-it-it's the welcome-home party in nineteen forty-five, for my cousin Herbie. 
 (Pointing) Look, look, there's-there's that one over there, that's Joey Nichols, he was my- (Young Alvy stands next to Joey Nichols, who's sitting in one of the easy chairs.  They smile at each other; people and noise all around) -father's friend.  He was always bothering me when I was a kid. 
 Joey Nichols. (Laughing) See.  Nichols.  See, Nichols! (Joey shows young Alvy his cuff links and a tie pin, which are made from nickels, as Alvy stands with hands on hips, unconcerned. Joey then slaps his band to his forehead and puts a nickel on his forehead) Yuh see, nickels!  You can always remember my name, just think of Joey Five Cents. (Laughing) That's me.  Joey Five Cents! 
 (Turning away) What an asshole! 
 ALVY'S MOTHER I was always the sister with good common sense.  But Tessie was always the one with personality.  When she was younger, they all wanted to marry Tessie. 
 (Pointing, to Rob) Do you believe that, Max?  Tessie Moskowitz had the personality.  She's the life of the ghetto, no doubt. 
 ALVY'S MOTHER (To the young girl) She was once a great beauty. 
 Tessie, they say you were the sister with personality. 
 (Addressing the young girl) I was a great beauty. 
 Uh, how did this personality come about? 
 (Grabbing the young girl's cheek) I was very charming. 
 There were many men interested in you? 
 (To the young girl) Oh, I was quite a lively dancer. 
 (Laughing) That's pretty hard to believe. 
 Well, I had a really good day, you know that?  It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday. 
 Ah?  Oh, well, your birthday's not till tomorrow, honey, I hate to tell yuh. 
 Yeah, but it's real close. 
 Yeah, but no presents till midnight. 
 (Laughing) Oh, darn it. 
 (Making sounds) This is- (Making sounds) Huh? 
 Happy birthday. 
 What is this? Is this a...Present? (Laughing) Are you kidding? 
 Yeah, hey, why don't yuh try it on? 
 Uh, yeah, uh ... t-t-this is more like a present for you, yeah, but it's- 
 Try it ... it'll add years to our sex life. 
 (Looking up at Alvy and laughing) Uh huh.  Yeah.  Forget it. 
 Here's a real present. 
 (Opening the gift) What... huh? 
 Check it out. 
 Oh, yeah?  What is this, anyway? (continuing) Let me see.  Okay, let's... oooh, God! (She takes out a watch from the box) Oh, you knew I wanted this ... (Laughing) God, it's terrific, God! 
 (Making sounds) Yeah, I know.  Just-just put on the watch, and-and ... that thing, and we'll just ... 
 (Laughing) Oh!  My God! (Making sounds) 
 (Laughing) Thank you. 
 (Reacting) You were-you were sensational.  I mean, I-you know, I-I told yuh that if yuh stuck to it, you would be great, and-and, you know, I-I-you-you were sensational. 
 (Looking at Alvy, smiling) Yeah, well, we have the, I mean, they were just a terrific audience, I mean, you know, it makes it really easy for me, because I can be ... huh? 
 Excuse me. 
 Oh. 
 Hi, I'm-I'm Tony Lacey. 
 Well, hi! 
 Uh, we just wanted to stop by and say that we really enjoyed your sets. 
 (Laughing) Oh, yeah, really, oh! 
 I though it was ... very musical, and I liked it a lot. 
 Oh, neat ... oh, that's very nice, gosh, thanks a lot. 
 Are you ... are you recording?  Or do- Are you with any label now? 
 (Laughing) No, no, no, not at all. 
 Uh, well, I'd like to talk to you about that sometime, if you get a chance. 
 Oh.  What about? 
 ... of possibly working together. 
 (Looking for the first time at Alvy) Well, hey, that's, that's nice.  Uh. Oh, listen, this is, uh, Alvy Singer. Do you know Alvy?  Uh ... and ... uh ... Tony Lacey. 
 No, I don't-I don't know, but I-I know your work.  I'm a big fan of yours. 
 Thank you very much.  It's a pleasure. 
 (Turning to introduce his entourage) This is, uh, Shawn, and, uh ... Bob and Petronia. 
 Hi. 
 Hi. 
 (Laughing) Hi, hi, Bob ... 
 Uh ... w-we're going back to the Pierre. We're staying at the Pierre ... and we're gonna meet Jack and Angelica, and have a drink there, and ... if you'd like to come, uh, we'd love to have you. 
 Yeah. 
 And we could just sit and talk ... nothing. Uh, not a big deal, it's just relax, just be very mellow. 
 (Fingers to his mouth, reacting) Remember, we had that thing. 
 What thing? 
 (Staring at Annie and clearing his throat) Don't you remember we-we-we discussed that thing that we were- 
 (Overlapping) Thing? 
 (Overlapping) -yes, we had, uh ... 
 (Looking at Alvy, reacting) Oh, the thing!  Oh, the thing ... (Laughing) ... yeah ... yeah. 
 Oh, well, I-if it's inconvenient, eh, we can't do it now ... that's fine, too.  W-w-w-we'll do it another time. 
 Hey- 
 Maybe if you're on the Coast, we'll get together and ... and we'll meet there. 
 (Reacting) Oh. 
 It was a wonderful set. 
 Oh, gosh. 
 (Smiling) I really enjoyed it. (Looking at Alvy) Nice to have metcha.  Good night. 
 Bye-bye. 
 Nice to see you ... bye.  Yeah.  Bye. 
 (Reacting) What's ... you ... well, what's the matter, You w-wanna go to that party? 
 (Looking down at her hands, then up at Alvy) I don't know, I thought it might be kind of fun, you know what I mean, it'd be nice to meet some new people. 
 (Sighing) I'm just not ... you know, I don't think I could take a mellow eve- 'cause I-I don't respond well to mellow, you know what I mean, I-I have a tendency to ... if I get too mellow, I-I ripen and then rot.  You know, and it's-it's not good for my ... (Making sounds) 
 All right, all right, you don't wanna go to the party, so uh, whatta you wanna do? 
 (To her doctor) That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember really having a great time. 
 (To his doctor) Well, we never have any laughs anymore, is the problem. 
 Well, I've been moody and dissatisfied. 
 ALVY'S PSYCHIATRIST How often do you sleep together? 
 ANNIE'S PSYCHIATRIST Do you have sex often? 
 Hardly ever.  Maybe three times a week. 
 Constantly!  I'd say three times a week. Like the other night, Alvy wanted to have sex. 
 She would not sleep with me the other night, you know, it's- 
 And ... I don't know ... I mean, six months ago I-I woulda done it.  I woulda done it, just to please him. 
 I mean ... I tried everything, you know, I-I-I put on soft music and my-my red light bulb, and ... 
 But the thing is-I mean, since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings.  I think you woulda been happy because ... uh, uh, I really asserted myself. 
 The incredible thing about it is, I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress and I'm getting screwed. 
 I don't know, though, I feel so guilty because Alvy is paying for it, so, you know, so I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him.  But if I do go to bed with him, it's like I'm going against my own feelings.  I don't know I-I can't win. 
 (Simultaneously, with Annie) You know ... it's getting expensive ...my analyst ... for her analyst.  She- she's making progress and I'm not making any progress.  Her progress is defeating my progress. 
 (Simultaneously, with Alvy) Sometimes I think-sometimes I think I should just live with a woman. 
 Wow, I don't believe it ... you mean to tell me you guys have never snorted coke? 
 Well, I always wanted to try, you know, but, uh, Alvy, uh ... he's very down on it. 
 Hey, don't put it on me.  You kn- Wh-what is it, I don't wanna put a wad of white powder in my nose 'cause the-the nasal membranes ... 
 You never wanna try anything new, Alvy. 
 (Counting on his fingers) How can you say that?  I mean, (Making sounds) who said I-I-I-I said that you, I and that girl from your acting class should sleep together in a threesome. 
 (Reacting) That's sick! 
 Yeah, I know it's sick, but it's new. You know, you didn't say it couldn't be sick. 
 Just come on, Alvy. (All four are now sitting on the sofa. The male friend starts to prepare lines of cocaine; Alvy and Annie look at each other, reacting) Do your body a favor.  Try it, come on. 
 Oh, yeah? 
 Yeah.  Come on.  It'd be fun. 
 (Moving forward on the couch) Oh, I'm sure it's a lot of fun, 'cause the Incas did it, you know, and-and they-they-they were a million laughs. 
 (Laughing) Alvy, come on, for your own experience. I mean, you wanna write, why not? 
 It's great stuff, Alvy.  Friend of mine just brought it in from California. 
 Oh, do you know something-I didn't tell yuh, we're going to California next week. 
 Oh, really? 
 Yeah ... 
 ... I'm thrilled.  As you know, uh ... uh, on my agent's advice I sold out, and I'm gonna do an appearance on TV. 
 (Interrupting) No, no, no that's not it at all.  Alvy's giving an award on television.  Gee, he talks like he's violating a moral issue sitting here. 
 You're kidding? 
 It's so phony, and we have to leave New York during Christmas week, which really kills me. 
 (Interrupting) Alvy, listen, while you're in California, could you possibly score some coke for me? 
 (Over Annie's laughter) Sure, sure, I'll be glad to. I-I'll just put it in a-a-a h-h-hollow heel that I have in my boot, you know. (Alvy picks up the small open gold case of cocaine base the man placed on the coffee table and looks at it, reacting) H-h-how much is this stuff? 
 It's about two thousand dollars an ounce. 
 God. 
 Really?  And what is the kick of it? Because I never ... 
 (Singing) We wish you a Merry Christmas, We wish you a Merry Christmas, We wish you a Merry Christmas, And a -Happy New Year. 
 (Over the singing) I've never been so relaxed as I have been since I moved out here, Max.  I want you to see my house.  I live right next to Hugh Hefner's house, Max. He lets me use the Jacuzzi.  And the women, Max, they're like the women in Playboy magazine, only they can move their arms and legs. 
 (Laughing) You know, I can't get over that this is really Beverly Hills. 
 (Singing) We wish you a Merry Christmas, And a Happy New Year. 
 Yeah, the architecture is really consistent, isn't it?  French next to- 
 (Singing over the dialogue) Oh, Christmas ... tree, Oh, Christmas tree, How bright and green Our ... 
 -Spanish, next to Tudor, next to Japanese. 
 God, it's so clean out here. 
 It's that they don't throw their garbage away.  They make it into television shows. 
 Aw, come on, Max, give us a break, will yuh?  It's Christmas. 
 Can you believe this is Christmas here? 
 (Singing) Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree ... 
 You know, it was snowing-it was snowing and really gray in New York yesterday. 
 No kidding? 
 Right-well, Santa Claus will have sunstroke. 
 Max, there's no crime, there's no mugging. 
 There's no economic crime, you know, but there's-there's ritual, religious- cult murders, you know, there's wheat- germ killers out here. 
 While you're out here, Max, I want you to see some of my TV show.  And we're invited to a big Christmas party. 
 (Singing, louder now) Remember Christ our Savior Was born on Christmas day To save us all ... from Satan's power As we were gone astray. 
 (Overlapping the chatter) Oh. 
 Look, now, Charlie, give me a big laugh here. 
 (Watching) A little bigger. 
 Do you realize how immoral this all is? 
 Max, I've got a hit series. 
 Yeah, I know; but you're adding fake laughs. 
 Oh, I'm sorry. 
 Yeah. 
 (Turning to the technician) Give me a tremendous laugh here, Charlie. 
 Look, uh ... 
 (To Alvy) We do the show live in front of an audience. 
 Great, but nobody laughs at it 'cause your jokes aren't funny. 
 Yeah, well, that's why this machine is dynamite. 
 (To the technician) Yeah ... uh, now give me a like a medium-size chuckle here ... and then a big hand. 
 (Removing his glasses and rubbing his face) Is there booing on there? 
 We were just gonna fix you up with my cousin Dolores. 
 (Overlapping the TV) Oh, Max, I don't feel well. 
 What's the matter? 
 I don't know, I just got-I got very dizzy... (Coughing) I feel dizzy, Max. 
 Well, sit down. 
 (Sitting down) Oh, Jesus. 
 You all right? 
 I don't know, I mean, I- 
 (Crouching before Alvy, looking at him) You wanna lie down? 
 No, no-my, you know, my stomach felt queasy all morning.  I just started getting ... 
 How about a ginger ale? 
 Oh, Max ... no, I maybe I better lie down. 
 (Talking into the phone) Yes. 
 (Holding out the food) Why don't you just try to get a little of this down?  This is just plain chicken. 
 (Taking a piece of chicken and holding it) Oh, oh, no, I can't-I can't eat this. I'm nauseous. (He gasps and makes sounds) If you could-if you could just give me something to get me through the next two hours, you know I-I have to go out to Burbank ... and give out an award on a TV show. 
 (On the phone, overlapping the doctor and Alvy) Well ... H-h huh ... Oh, good ... Yes, I'll tell him. 
 Well, there's nothing wrong with you actually, so far as I can tell.  I mean, you have no fever, no ... no symptoms of anything serious.  You haven't been eating pork or shellfish. 
 (Sitting on the edge of the bed) Excuse me.  I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Doctor. Uh, Alvy-Alvy, that was the show.  They said everything is fine.  They found a replacement, so they're going to tape without you. 
 (Making sounds) I'm nauseous. (He sighs and gasps) Oh, jesus, now I don't get to do the TV show? 
 Yeah.  Listen, Doctor, I'm worried. 
 Now, Mrs. Singer, I can't find anything -- 
 Christ! 
 Nothing at all? 
 No, I think I can get a lab man up here. 
 (Grabbing the rest of the chicken from the plate) Oh, jesus. Can I have the salt, please? 
 What do you mean?  Do you think he's- 
 (Handing the salt to Alvy) Yes, excuse me. (To Annie) Perhaps it would be even better if we took him to the hospital for a day or two. 
 Uh-huh ... Oh, hospital? 
 Well, otherwise, there's no real way to tell what's going on. 
 (Making sounds, gasping) This is not bad, actually. 
 (Getting out of the car) Hey, don't tell me we're gonna hafta walk from the car to the house.  Geez, my feet haven't touched pavement since I reached Los Angeles. 
 You like this house, Max? 
 M'hm. 
 I even brought a road map to get us to the bathroom. 
 Whee, you shoulda told me it was Tony Lacey's party. 
 What difference does that make? 
 I think he has a little thing for Annie. 
 Oh, no, no, that's bullshit, Max.  He goes with that girl over there. 
 Where? 
 The one with the V.P.L. 
 V.P.L.? 
 Visible panty line.  Max, she is gorgeous. 
 Yeah, she's a ten, Max, and that's great for you because you're -you're used to twos, aren't you? 
 There are no twos, Max. 
 Yeah, you're used to the kind with the- with the shopping bags walking through Central Park with the surgical masks on muttering. 
 M'hm. 
 And ... uh- 
 (Interrupting) How do you like this couple, Max? 
 And I think they just came back from Masters and Johnson. 
 Yeah, intensive care ward. (Watching the woman in white) My God-hey, Max, I think she's ... I think she's giving me the eye. 
 If she comes over here, Max, my brain is going to turn into guacamole. 
 I'll handle it.  I'll handle it.  Hi. 
 (Reacting) EST?  No, no, I was never to est. 
 Oh. 
 Oh, he-he didn't say anything. 
 (Laughing) No, no, I came out here to get some shock therapy, but there was an energy crisis, so I ... He's my-my food taster. Have you two met? 
 (Shaking his head) Hi.  How do you do. 
 Yeah, he's crazy. 
 (Looking at Rob and the girl) Hey, you guys are wearin' white. It must be in the stars. 
 Yeah.  Right. 
 Uri Geller must be on the premises someplace. 
 We're gonna operate together. 
 We just need about six weeks, in about six weeks we could cut a whole album. 
 I don't know, this is strange to me, you know. 
 just ... that's all you need.  You can come and stay here. 
 Oh. 
 There's a whole wing in this house. 
 (Laughing) Oh yeah, stay here?  U-huh. 
 You can have it to use.  Why-why are you smiling? 
 (Laughing) I don't know.  I don't know. 
 This is a great house, really.  Everything. Saunas, Jacuzzis, three tennis courts. You know who the original owners were? Nelson Eddy, then Legs Diamond.  Then you know who lived here? 
 Trigger. 
 Charlie Chaplin. 
 Hey. 
 Right before his un-American thing. 
 Yeah, this place is great. 
 Yeah. 
 Uh, you guys are still-uh, you're still New Yorkers. 
 Yeah, I love it there. 
 (Laughing) Yeah. 
 Well, I used to live there.  I used to live there for years.  You know, but it's gotten-it's so dirty now. 
 Yeah. 
 I'm into garbage.  It's my thing. 
 Boy, this is really a nice screening room.  It's really a nice room. 
 Oh, and there's another thing about New York.  See ... you-you wanna see a movie, you have to stand in a long line. 
 Yeah. 
 It could be freezing, it could be raining. 
 Yeah. 
 And here, you just- 
 (Shaking his head no) Come and see our bedroom.  We did a fantastic lighting job.  Okay? 
 Oh, good.  Okay. 
 I'm cool. 
 (Taking Alvy's arm) It's wonderful. I mean, you know they just watch movies all day. 
 Yeah, and gradually you get old and die. You know it's important to make a little effort once in a while. 
 Don't you think his girl friend's beautiful? 
 Yeah, she's got a great-lookin' fa- A pat on the androgynous side.  But it's... 
 (Looking back at Alvy) Alvy, uh, let's face it.  You know something, don't think our relationship is working. 
 Tsch, I know.  A relationship, I think, is-is like a shark, you know?  It has to constantly move forward or it dies. (He sighs) And I think what we got on our hands (Clearing his throat) is a dead shark. 
 (Holding up a book) Whose "Catcher in the Rye" is this? 
 (Walking into the room with an armload of books) Well, let's see now ... If it has my name on it, then I guess it's mine. 
 (Reacting) Oh, it sure has ... You know, you wrote your name in all my books, 'cause you knew this day was gonna come. 
 (Putting down the books and flipping back her hair) Well, uh, Alvy, you wanted to break up just as much as I do. 
 (Riffling through the books) There's no-no question in my mind.  I think we're doing the mature thing, without any doubt. 
 (Holding a framed picture and moving about) Now, look, all the books on death and dying are yours and all the poetry books are mine. 
 (Looking down at a book) This "Denial of Death".  You remember this? 
 Oh- 
 This is the first book that I got you. 
 -God. 
 Remember that day? 
 Right.  Geez, I feel like there's a great weight off my back.  M'mmm. 
 Thanks, honey. 
 (Patting Alvy's shoulder) Oh, no, no, no, no, no.  I mean, you know, no, no, no, I mean, I think it's really important for us to explore new relationships and stuff like that. 
 There's no-there's no question about that, 'cause we've given this ... uh, uh, I think a more than fair shot, you know? 
 (Off screen) Yeah, my analyst thinks this move is keen for me. 
 (Off screen) Yeah, and I-I tru-  you know, I trust her, because my-my analyst recommended her. 
 (Walking in with another armload of books) Well, why should I put you through all my moods and hang-ups anyway? 
 Right.  And you-and you know what the beauty part is? 
 What? 
 (Holding a small box of buttons) We can always come back together again. Because there's no-there's no problem. 'Cause ... Right. 
 (Overlapping) Exactly, but ... exactly.  Ooooh! 
 You know, I-I-I don't think many couples could handle this.  You know, they could just break up and remain friends. 
 (Taking a button from a box) Hey, this one's mine, this button. This one, you rem- 
 (Interrupting) Yeah. 
 I guess these are all yours.  Impeach, uh, Eisenhower ... Impeach Nixon ... Impeach Lyndon Johnson ... Impeach Ronald Reagan. 
 (Into the camera, to the audience) I miss Annie.  I made a terrible mistake. 
 Oh, yeah?  Well, if she is, then the hell with her!  If she likes that lifestyle, let her live there!  He's a jerk, for one thing. 
 Yeah. He may- Listen, Harvard makes mistakes too, you know.  Kissinger taught there. 
 Don't tell me you're jealous? 
 Yeah, jealous. A little bit like Medea. Lemme, lemme-can I show you something, lady? (He takes a small item from his pocket to show the woman) What I have here ... I found this in the apartment.  Black soap.  She used to wash her face eight hundred times a day with black soap. Don't ask me why. 
 Well, why don't you go out with other women? 
 Well, I-I tried, but it's, uh, you know, it's very depressing. 
 (Pointing to the lobster) This always happens to me.  Quick, g-go get a broom. 
 (Smoking) What are you making such a big deal about? (As she talks, the lobster drops from the tray to the floor.  Alvy jumps away, then gingerly scrapes the tray toward the lobster) They're only lobsters.  Look, you're a grown man, you know how to pick up a lobster. 
 (Looking up in stooped-over position) I'm not myself since I stopped smoking. 
 (Still leaning against the sink, her hand on her hip) Oh, when'd you quit smoking? 
 Sixteen years ago. 
 (Puzzled) Whatta you mean? 
 (Mocking) Mean? 
 You stopped smoking sixteen years ago, is that what you said?  Oh, I-I don't understand.  Are you joking, or what? 
 Listen, honey, Central Park's turning green ... Yeah, I sa-I saw that lunatic that we-where we used to see ... with the, uh, uh, pinwheel hat and, you know, and the roller skates? . . . Listen, I-I want you to come back here ... Well, I-I-then I'm gonna come out there and getcha. 
 Whatta you mean, where am I? Where do- where do you think I am?  I'm-I'm out ... I'm at the Los Angeles Airport. I flew in ... (Sniffling) Tsch, I-well, I flew in to see you ... (Muttering) Hey, listen, can we not debate this on-on the telephone because I'm, you know, I-I feel that I got a temperature and I'm-I'm getting my-my chronic Los Angeles nausea. I-I don't feel so good. 
 (To the waitress) I'm gonna...I'm gonna have the alfalfa sprouts and, uh, a plate of mashed yeast. 
 Hi. 
 You look very pretty. 
 Oh, no, I just lost a little weight, that's all. (Alvy adjusts his glasses, not exactly knowing where to start; a bit uneasy) Well, you look nice. 
 (Nodding his head) You see, I-I've been thinking about it and I think that we should get married. 
 (Adjusting her sunglasses) Oh, Alvy, come on. 
 Why?  You wanna live out here all year? It's like living in Munchkin Land. 
 (Looking around) Well, whatta you mean?  I mean, it's perfectly fine out here.  I mean, Tony's very nice and, uh, well, I meet people and I go to parties and-and we play tennis. I mean, that's ... that's a very big step for me, you know?  I mean ... (Reacting, Alvy looks down at his hands, then up) I'm able to enjoy people more. 
 (Sadly) So whatta you ... You're not gonna come back to New York? 
 (Smiling) What's so great about New York?  I mean, it's a dying city.  You read "Death in Venice." 
 Hey, you didn't read "Death in Venice" till I bought it for yuh. 
 That's right, that's right. (Still smiling) You only gave me books with the word "death" in the titles. 
 (Nodding his head and gesturing) That's right, 'cause it's an important issue. 
 Alvy, you're incapable of enjoying life, you know that?  I mean, your life is New York City.  You're just this person. You're like this island unto yourself. 
 (Toying with his car keys) I can't enjoy anything unless I ... unless everybody is.  I-you know, if one guy is starving someplace, that's ... you know, I-I ... it puts a crimp in my evening. (Looking down at his hands, sadly) So wanna get married or what? 
 (Seriously) No. We're friends.  I wanna remain friends. 
 (In disbelief) Okay. (Louder, to the waitress) Check, please.  Can I -can I ... Can I ... Can I ... 
 (Interrupting) You're mad, aren't you? 
 (Shaking his head) No. (Then nodding) Yes, of course I'm mad, because you love me, I know that. 
 Alvy, I can't say that that's true at this point in my life.  I really just can't say that that's true.  I mean, you know how wonderful you are.  I mean, you know ... you're the reason that I got outta my room and that I was able to sing, and-and-and, you know, get more in touch with my feelings and all that crap.  Anyway, look, I don't wanna- Listen, listen, listen, uh (Laughing) h'h, so whatta you up to anyway, huh? 
 (Shrugging his shoulders) The usual, you know. Uh, tryin't'write. I'm workin' on a play. (Sighing) Jesus.  So whatta yuh saying?  That you're not comin' back to New York with me? 
 (Nodding) No! (Pauses) Look, I gotta go. 
 You mean that ... (He gets up and starts following her past diners at other tables) I-I-I-I flew three thousand miles to see you. 
 I'm late. 
 Air miles, you know.  I mean, you know what that does to my stomach? 
 If you must know, it's a hectic time for Tony.  The Grammys are tonight. 
 The what? 
 The Grammys.  He's got a lotta records up for awards. 
 You mean they give awards for that kind o' music? 
 Oh! 
 I thought just earplugs. 
 Just forget it, Alvy, okay?  Let's just forget the conversation. 
 (Yelling after her) Awards! They do nothing but give out awards!  I can't believe it.  Greatest, greatest fascist dictator, Adolf Hitler! 
 (Getting out of the car) Officer, I know what you're gonna say. I'm-I'm not a great driver, you know, I-I have some problems with-with-with- 
 (Interrupting) May I see your license, please? 
 Sure. (Searching, he finally fishes his license out of his pocket) just don't-don't get angry, you know what I mean?  'Cause I-I have - I have my-my license here.  You know, it's a rented car.  And I've ... 
 Don't give me your life story (Looking at the piece of paper on the ground) -just pick up the license. 
 Pick up the license.  You have to ask nicely 'cause I've had an extremely rough day.  You know, my girl friend- 
 (Interrupting) Just give me the license, please. 
 Since you put it that way. (He laughs) It's hard for me to refuse. (He leans over, picks up the license, then proceeds to rip it up.  He lets the pieces go; they float to the ground) ... have a, I have a terrific problem with authority, you know.  I'm... it's not your fault.  Don't take it personal. 
 So long, fellas.  Keep in touch. 
 Imagine my surprise when I got your call, Max. 
 (Carrying his jacket over his shoulder) Yeah.  I had the feeling that I got you at a bad moment.  You know, I heard high-pitched squealing. 
 (Starting the car) Twins, Max.  Sixteen-year-olds.  Can you imagine the mathematical possibilities? 
 (Reacting) You're an actor, Max.  You should be doing Shakespeare in the Park. 
 Oh, I did Shakespeare in the Park, Max. I got mugged.  I was playing Richard the Second and two guys with leather jackets stole my leotard. 
 (Looking at Rob's helmet) Max, are we driving through plutonium? 
 Keeps out the alpha rays, Max.  You don't get old. 
 You're a thinking person.  How can you choose this lifestyle? 
 What is so incredibly great about New York?  It's a dying city!  You-you read "Death in Venice". 
 You didn't read "Death in Venice" till I gave it to you! 
 Well, you only give me books with the word "death" in the title. 
 (In mirrored reflection) It's an important issue. 
 (In mirrored reflection) Alvy, you are totally incapable of enjoying life. 
 You're like New York.  You're an island. 
 (Rising with emotion) Okay, if that's all that we've been through together means to you, I guess it's better if we just said goodbye, once and for all!  You know, it's funny, after all the serious talks and passionate moments that it ends here ... in a health -food restaurant on Sunset Boulevard. Goodbye, Sunny. 
 Wait!  I'm-I'm gonna ... go with you. (The actor comes back. They embrace) I love you. 
 (To the audience, gesturing) Tsch, whatta you want?  It was my first play.  You know, you know how you're always tryin' t' get things to come out perfect in art because, uh, it's real difficult in life.  Interestingly, however, I did run into Annie again.  It was on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. 
 ALVY'S VOICE (Over the theater scene and, Annie's singing) She had moved back to New York.  She was living in SoHo with some guy. (Laughing) And when I met her she was, of all things, dragging him in to see "The Sorrow and the Pity."  Which I counted as a personal triumph.  Annie and I ... (Alvy's voice continues over the scene shot through a window of Manhattan cafe showing Alvy and Annie sitting at a table, laughing and enjoying themselves) ... we had lunch sometime after that, and, uh, just, uh, kicked around old times. 
: 
; 
