 
 
 D'ARTAGNAN Had enough? 
 (breathless deadpan) I believe now would be a good time to end your, uhm, formal training. Well done. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Thank you, sir. 
 And god have mercy on whomever you meet next. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Mother...? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Did you see us? You heard us, I'll bet. Girard finally surrendered a compliment... though I almost had to kill him to get it... Mother...? D'Artagnan comes upon an open door, a small room beyond. He pauses, then steps inside. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Didn't you hear me? Girard -- 
 Sit. D'Artagnan sighs, sits in a large wooden chair. A beat. His mother speaks quietly, eyes turned back to the open chest. 
 Your father was a proud man. And he had a right to be. I never knew one as brave or as kind. He knew that his strength was a gift to be given in the service of honor. That is why he dedicated his life to his country and his King. That is why he gave his life, for both. 
 I watched you this morning and saw someone I knew. You have your father's heart, his will to fight, his courage. But these gifts have no value unless they are given. She rises, holds the sword out to him. 
 It's time for you find your fortune with men as brave and as bold as you are. In Paris. With the King's Musketeers. (re: sword) You'll need this. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (quiet, moved) Father's sword. (CONTINUED) 
 Forged in the Crusades, handed from generation to generation. 
 D'ARTAGNAN And now to me. 
 Yes, son.   And now to you. With that, she holds out the beautiful saber.         D'Artagnan takes it firmly into his hands. 
 I'm not your mother now. I'm speaking for your father. And this is what he would have told you. Never forget the code of the d'Artagnans. It is your special heritage. (beat) Always seek out adventure... 
 D'ARTAGNAN I will. 
 Never run from a fight... 
 D'ARTAGNAN I won't. 
 Never submit to insults.    Except from the King. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Never. (CONTINUED) 
 And be wary of Cardinal Richelieu for he rules France through the King. A bittersweet moment. D'Artagnan posed before his first great adventure. But not completely certain that he wishes to leave home. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Mother. Maybe I should wait. Until after harvest. D'Artganan's mother smiles, understands.       And speaks gently to urge him forward. 
 You've heard that every man in the Musketeers is on the run from someone or something? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   But what am I running from? 
 (gentle humor) A shrew of a mother, and a drafty old house. Now go. 
 And for heaven's sake, practice your horsemanship. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Horsemanship.    Got it. D'Artagnan digs his heels into the horse's flanks, shoots off across bright green fields. His Mother shields her eyes from the sun, feels a gathering of tears, and watches him ride into the distance. 
 What should I do with this? 
 Throw it on the fire with everything else. 
 But this is the emblem of the Musketeers... 
 The Musketeers no longer exist. Or haven't you heard? (cold command) Throw it on the fire. Jussac hastily adds the emblem to the fiery blaze, it is instantly consumed. Rochefort watches it burn, then walks to a balcony overlooking a vast courtyard. 
 Musketeers... A hundred faces turn   upward to regard him. And on each the same expression   -- absolute loathing for the man in black. Rochefort is    not intimidated by this sea of con- tempt. He revels in    it. 
 By joint edict of His Majesty King Louis XIII and His Eminence Cardinal Richelieu, the Musketeers are officially disbanded. In preparation for the coming war with England, your ranks and commissions are hereby transferred to the Infantry. You will be contacted and told where to report. Until that time, you are instructed to return to your homes. 
 (shouting to Rochefort) And who will protect the King? 
 The Cardinal's Guards are more than capable of assuming that... responsibility. 
 You are hereby ordered to disperse. Should even one of you resist... the entire corps will be arrested and imprisoned. (with pleasure and disdain) 'All for one, and one for all.' 
 Musketeers! 
 Go to your homes. Wait. Our day will come again. 
 Your Eminence. Rochefort and Jussac instantly fall to their knees. ARMAND DU PLEISS THE CARDINAL RICHELIEU steps out of the darkness and into the light, his long crimson robes swirling about him like clouds of blood. His face is long, shrewd and intelligent. His eyes are penetrat- ing. He smiles his crocodile smile. Richelieu observes a duty roster on one of the walls. It contains the names of all the Musketeers, past and present. 
 Have they all been accounted for? 
 (hedging) All but... three. 
 Three? 
 (speaking up) I sent a patrol to find them but it hasn't returned yet. 
 I want those Musketeers, not excuses. Bring them in at once. CUT TO: 
 Release that man!! Happy to comply, Porthos lets go of the Guard who plunges to the street with a dull thud. Then, with a wink and a piratical grin, Porthos ducks inside. Jussac darkens, signals his men, and they rush toward the tavern. 
 (approaching) What is this? 
 A private party. Go away. 
 Athos -- is that any way to greet our guests? 
 Don't be shy, gentlemen. Come in. Your friends have been expecting you. Jussac is not amused. 
 Your presence is requested at Musketeer Headquarters by Captain Rochefort. Athos and Aramis exchange looks. 
 The Cyclops is a Captain? He must've made a pact with the Devil. 
 Or the Cardinal. 
 What's the difference? 
 (with an edge of contempt) The Devil is more ethical than the Cardinal. 
 You're instructed to come with me and surrender your tunics. 
 These gentlemen made a similar request. 
 Are you refusing to come peaceably? 
 Probably. But I'll leave it up to my companions. Aramis? 
 We can't refuse Rochefort's invitation. It would be impolite. Athos tips back in his chair and gazes upward. 
 And what do you say, Porthos? 
 I'll be right down! With the grace of an aerialist, Porthos jumps from the balcony and lands atop the chandelier. His weight causes the chains suspending it to break. With a whoop of pleasure, Porthos rides the chandelier down as it lands squarely atop Jussac's Guards, squashing them. 
 (to Athos and Aramis; cheerful) Ready when you are. Athos and Aramis sheathe their swords, put on their hats, wrap their capes around them and cross the room to join Porthos. 
 Congratulations, Porthos.   You brought down the house. 
 My aim was off. I was trying to hit Jussac. 
 Now.   About those tunics... Jussac turns to watch Athos, Porthos, and Aramis step to the street. He mutters as if to curse: 
 Musketeers. CUT TO: 
 Do you have any idea what you've done? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I've saved you and your friend from these bandits. 
 These 'bandits' are the Queen's own bodyguards. 
 D'ARTAGNAN The Queen? 
 If I were you, I'd make myself scarce. These men are going to be very angry when they wake up. (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN I didn't know. I thought... 
 Do you have a name? 
 D'ARTAGNAN D'Artagnan. 
 You're a very foolish boy, d'Artagnan... but a very handsome one. Good-bye. Constance spurs her horse and rides off to catch up with Anne. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (calling after her) Wait!   You didn't tell me your name! But Constance is gone. D'Artagnan stands in the middle of the road, feeling foolish and oddly thrilled at the same time. The two bodyguards groan and grumble. 
 D'ARTAGNAN The man who attacked you... (pointing in the opposite direction) ... went that way. With a guilty smile, d'Artagnan spurs his horse and rides like Hell. 
 I'll take those tunics, Musketeers. 
 (to Aramis) What did he say? 
 He said he'll take those tunics. 
 Tunics?   Coming right up. Porthos reaches inside his cloak and takes out a crumpled red tunic he took from one of the Cardinal's guards. He drops it on the ground, digs into a pocket and takes out another. He finds another in his boot and another up his sleeve. There's one in his hat. Like a magician, he keeps pulling red tunics out of the most bizarre places. 
 I was trying to remember the last time I saw you here. I know. It was the day you were kicked out of the Musketeers. 
 Conduct Unbecoming a Musketeer. Wasn't that the charge? 
 You ought to know. Three witnesses stood against me. 
 It was the least we could do. 
 You are hereby ordered to surrender your commissions and make yourselves available for reassignment in the King's Army. 
 And if we refuse? 
 You will become outlaws.   Hunted men. 
 It doesn't matter where I go or what I do. Sooner or later somebody's calling me 'outlaw.' Athos cuts him off with a look. He's familiar with Porthos' propensity for tall tales. But not here, not now. Athos turns back to the balcony. Rochefort lobs a taunt. 
 Are you refusing to serve your King? 
 We are refusing to serve the Cardinal. 
 Same thing, these days. 
 France has one King too many. 
 I'll tell him you said that. 
 Do that, Rochefort. Tell his Emminence the Cardinal that we will continue to perform our sworn duty to protect the King. From enemies across the sea. (MORE) 
 ATHOS (CONT'D) From traitors who sit at his right hand. And tell him that he can take away our tunics, our muskets, even our swords. But he cannot stop us from being what we are. Musketeers. 
 I'll make sure His Emminence the Cardinal gets the message. But I can't promise he'll be pleased. 
 Well, if we're going to be outlaws, I suppose we'll have to get our affairs in order. 
 Are you going to visit them alphabetically or in order of preference? 
 Alphabetically seems... fair. 
 When it comes to you and women, fairness rarely applies. 
 (interrupts) We'll meet at the Columbier-Rouge at sundown. (off their looks) To celebrate. And to plan our new lives. 
 Outlaws. 
 Citizens of France. 
 The three Musketeers. And that is all that remains. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (as he enters) Look out! 
 (wincing in pain) Aaarrgghh... 
 D'ARTAGNAN (in a panic; looking around) Where are they? Where are the Musketeers? I'm in the right place, aren't I? 
 (through gritted teeth) Not as far as I'm concerned. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But this is Musketeer Headquarters... (CONTINUED) 
 No. This was Musketeer Headquarters. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You mean it's been moved? 
 I mean the Musketeers have been disbanded. Feel free to poke around for souvenirs. 
 D'ARTAGNAN What do you mean 'disbanded'? 
 Some nonsense about being needed in the army. Now if you'll excuse me... D'Artagnan blocks Athos' path. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But I just got here. How can I become a Musketeer if they've been disbanded? 
 I'd say you've got a problem. D'Artagnan grabs Athos by his injured arm. Athos, stif- ling pain, fixes d'Artagnan with a deadly look. 
 You could use a lesson in manners. D'Artagnan touches his sword, eyes flashing at the pos- sibility of a duel. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Any time. 
 I'm in a hurry now -- but I'll meet you at the Carmes-Deshaux monastery at noon. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (calling after him) I'll be there ten minutes early. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN (CONT'D) (to himself) An hour in Paris, and I already have my first duel! Just then, d'Artangnan spies two familiar figures on horseback, distinctive cloaks hiding their faces. Anne and Constance, though he does not yet know their names. D'Artagnan hurries after. CUT TO: 
 But, Catherine, don't you see? As an outlaw I'll be constantly on the run from the Cardinal's guards, a refugee. Think of all the places you can hide me. I'm thinking of them now. 
 (not a glimmer of a grin) Do you know where this sash comes from? 
 D'ARTAGNAN No. 
 It is a gift from the Queen of America. Porthos' righteous indignation is more impressive than his knowledge of current affairs. D'Artagnan corrects. 
 D'ARTAGNAN There is no Queen of America. 
 (to pretty woman) Madame Augustine, would you excuse me for a moment, I'm going to kill him. (back to d'Artagnan; ever the gentleman) Now, where were we? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (glancing at the ladies; the alley) I rode through a puddle, muddied your sash, the Queen of America except there isn't one, I'm in a hurry, and you were about to challenge me to a duel. 
 (amused) I was? 
 D'ARTAGNAN That seems to be the local custom. Porthos lets out a weary sigh.         He shakes his head. 
 Everywhere I go, it's always the same. There's always some kid who thinks he's hot with a sword... some itchy punk who wants to go up against the great Porthos... 
 D'ARTAGNAN The great who? 
 The great Porthos. (when d'Artagnan isn't impressed) Me, you idiot. 
 Don't you know who I am? 
 D'ARTAGNAN The world's greatest talker? 
 All right, you little puke! You want to die? So be it! One o'clock behind the Luxembourg! And bring a coffin! 
 D'ARTAGNAN Bring your own! 
 D'ARTAGNAN Let me pass. (CONTINUED) 
 CARDINAL'S GUARD I'm afraid that's not possible. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I must speak to those young women. 
 CARDINAL'S GUARD The young women do not wish to be spoken to. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I have something that belongs to the Queen. 
 (alert) What? 
 D'ARTAGNAN A bracelet. 
 I'll deliver it for you. 
 D'ARTAGNAN No, you've been enough help already. Would you be so kind as to point out the Carmes-Deshaux Monastery? The Guard points to a large building in the distance with a large cross. CUT TO: 
 Madam, I'm flattered but I thought you wanted me to tutor you in theology. 
 Excuse me, Monsieur Aramis. But when you started talking about Original Sin, I lost control and became impassioned. It won't happen again. 
 There's nothing unholy about expressing one's emotions. On the contrary. Religion should be experienced in a passionate, all- embracing way. We should feel free to express our spirituality. 
 Yes, darling! The Damsel attacks him again.         Suddenly, a pounding on the door. 
 (O.S.) Open up! 
 (a gasp of fear) My husband! 
 Your husband!? 
 Aramis -- run! 
 First we must pray to God for forgiveness. 
 On second thought, God's often busy. Aramis leaps to his feet and sprints for the open window. 
 Thanks. You broke my fall perfectly. But I do apologize for the inconvenience... 
 D'ARTAGNAN (angry) Get off me! D'Artagnan pushes Aramis aside. Aramis grabs d'Artagnan by the scruff of his neck and pulls him back. 
 If there's one thing I can't abide, it's rudeness. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You fell on me! 
 And I apologized for it. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I suppose you'd like to teach me a lesson in manners, too. 
 I'd be honored. D'Artagnan brightens.   Another duel! 
 D'ARTAGNAN How's two o'clock behind the Luxembourg? Aramis bows politely. 
 If that's where you wish to die, I won't disappoint you. Until then... 
 D'ARTAGNAN Three duels in one day. I love this town. 
 (V.O.) Have you seen the King? 
 (V.O.) No, Your Majesty. 
 (O.S.) Your Majesty... 
 Cardinal Richelieu, you surprised me. Cardinal Richelieu steps out of the darkness.     He smiles. 
 How was your ride? 
 My ride...?    Well, I... I'm not sure... 
 (rising up) Forgive me. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 RICHELIEU (CONT'D) But your welfare is more than a matter of personal interest. It is a matter of State. But rest assured, your secret is safe with me. 
 Thank you. Richelieu turns to the great map, speaks gently. 
 You're homesick. 
 (after a beat) Lonely. Is that the same thing? 
 Sometimes. Richelieu brings his eyes back to Anne, continues: 
 Austria's loss is France's gain. 
 I'm not sure my new husband shares your opinion. 
 Nonsense.    He's young, not blind. 
 Mostly, he is absent. I've barely seen His Majesty since our wedding, and that was three months ago. Whenever he's around me, he has nothing to say. 
 Arranged marriages can be difficult. Your father and I thought yours would bring Austria and France closer together. 
 Countries align more swiftly than people, I'm afraid. Louis and I remain... far apart. 
 May I advise you? 
 Louis was only nine years old when his father was assassinated. He lost his childhood forever that day. I have watched him grow toward manhood, seen the toll his life demands. A boy who is not allowed to be a boy sometimes has difficulty becoming a man. He is shy, yet boastful. Giving, yet stubborn. But most of all, he is not yet sure exactly who he is. The boy who lost his father. Or the King of France. 
 But how can I...? 
 Flatter him. Make the boy feel like a King. So that the King may be your husband. 
 His Majesty, the King. 
 Your Majesty. 
 Cardinal Richelieu, I've been looking for you. 
 Oh. Anne. Hello. I didn't know you were here. 
 Would you like me to go? Louis suddenly remembers the reason he's here.       Determin- ation breeds a more capable attitude. 
 No.  Please, stay. (to Richelieu, aware that she is watching him) Your Eminence, I demand an answer. 
 (hiding his amusement) Perhaps if I knew the question... 
 I've just been told that you went ahead and disbanded my Musketeers. 
 You approved the decision. 
 But not the timing of the matter. I intended to address them myself, explain the situation... 
 Your Majesty, France is on the brink of war. We dare not hesitate. 
 But these men are my personal guards... 
 They are the bravest fighters in France. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 RICHELIEU (CONT'D) We'll need them in the field if we're to win this war with England. Buckingham plans to invade La Rochelle within the month. I thought it best to act quickly -- 
 I will be the judge of what is best. For me, and for France. 
 Of course.   Forgive me. A tense beat.    Anne, feeling out of place, steps toward the door. 
 Anne?   Are you all right? 
 You two should continue this discussion in private. 
 (hesitates, seeks a reason for her to stay) Your thoughts on the matter interest me. They might... help. 
 It seems to me that... you're doing very well on your own. 
 She's beautiful. 
 Extremely. 
 Intelligent. 
 Very. 
 (after a beat) Sometimes she scares me half to death. 
 May I advise you? 
 She scares me too. As do all women who join beauty to intelligence. What's a man to do? 
 (enjoying the Cardinal's humor) I have no idea. 
 The course of love is full of frightful turns. But, no matter how you feel, no matter how hopelessly afraid... never let her know that you are anything other than the bravest and most confident man in France. Make that your starting point, and everything else will fall... into place. 
 The bravest man in France... 
 Good advice for a shopkeeper. Let alone a King. 
 Your Eminence, I'm sorry that I was sharp with you. It's just that the Musketeers... well, they're not just my guards. They're my friends too. 
 I know.   But don't worry. (MORE) 
 RICHELIEU (CONT'D) From now on, I'll take complete responsibility for your welfare. Indeed he will. 
 He's a foolish boy. And barely that. 
 That foolish boy is about to become a man. (off Rochefort's look) Which is all the more reason for us to act... quickly. 
 (reacts, knows what this portends) And the Queen...? 
 (he smiles, lewd) She will receive me in ways she never thought possible. Privately. HOLD ON the Cardinal and Rochefort, watching the King and Queen below. CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) Get out of the way, idiot!! 
 But, Father... 
 Count de Winter. 
 (eyes on the mirror) Yes. Now that you have, what will you do? COUNT DE WINTER Bring you back. To pay for what you did to my son. 
 And if I resist...? COUNT DE WINTER (voice breaking with emotion) I will kill you with my bare hands. 
 Well if that's the case, I'd better start packing. But first, my hair... Milady, who has been removing combs throughout, reaches for the next, and... 
 Father? 
 Ten minutes early. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I have another appointment at one. 
 You'll miss it, I'm afraid. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'll try my best to be on time. 
 I asked two of my friends to act as seconds, but they are not as punctual. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But you're wounded. 
 Don't worry. I fight just as well with my left hand. (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN If you'd rather kill me another time... 
 Thanks, but I see my seconds coming now. 
 (to Athos) What're you doing? You can't fight this man. 
 Why not? 
 Because I'm fighting him. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Excuse me, monsieur. But not until one o'clock. 
 (amused) Wait a minute. I've got a duel with him, too. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes, sir.   But not until two. 
 (to d'Artagnan) How long have you been in Paris? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I arrived this morning. 
 You've been... busy. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I've also fallen in love. 
 (gruff to a fault) Better to die for love than to live for it. Gentlemen? (CONTINUED) 
. 
 There they are!! Athos and d'Artagnan separate as Jussac and his four swordsmen stride towards them. 
 Jussac.   Again. Athos steps forward to meet him. 
 I told you the next time we met I'd want an answer. But I didn't expect you so soon. 
 The three of you are under arrest. The boy's of no interest to me and is free to go. Do you intend to resist? 
 Oh, don't be stupid. Of course we intend to resist. Just give us a second. 
 Interesting odds. Five of them and three of us. 
 It hardly seems fair. Let's give them the chance to surrender. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (interrupting) Excuse me, but there are four of us. 
 This is not your fight.    You're not a Musketeer. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I may not wear the uniform, but I believe I have the heart of a Musketeer. The three Musketters exchange smiles. D'Artagnan's youthful bravado manages a small dent in their cynicism. 
 Bold and brave. 
 A poet. 
 Have you got a name, boy? 
 D'ARTAGNAN D'Artagnan. 
 (startled) D'Artagnan? The name has meaning for all of them. The Musketeers look at each other, deadpan, shake their heads. 
 Impossible. 
 It couldn't be. 
 Athos... Porthos... Aramis. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Pleased to meet you... How do you do?... Good to see you again... Meanwhile, Jussac and his Guards look on with increasing impatience. He clears his throat, draws his saber. The Musketeers turn toward the Guards, d'Artagnan standing among them. (CONTINUED) 
 Well. Now that we're all acquainted... 
 The Cardinal's Guards. 
 (losing patience) Stand still! How do you expect me to kill you if you keep jumping around!! 
 (eyes on the tower) Damn monks. Always spoiling everybody's fun. 
 They are nearer to God... 
 They're about to get a little nearer to the hilt of my sword. 
 Pagan. 
 Papist. Porthos slides over to handle one of Aramis' opponents. He'd rather bicker from close range. But Biscarat struggles to his feet, grabs his saber. Porthos sees him, sighs. 
 (to Aramis) Excuse me? 
 I'm fine, thank you. 
 Take a look at our young friend. 
 You mean he's still alive? 
 Now what...? 
 God, I love my work. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (to Athos) What's he doing? 
 Last rites. Aramis takes death very seriously. 
 (re: the bolo) Do you know where this bolo comes from? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (a bold jest, given the circumstances) The Queen of America? 
 Spain. 
 Don't encourage him. By killing Jussac, the boy's made himself an outlaw too. 
 Not if he leaves Paris. Which is exactly what he's going to do. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I can't leave. I just got here. 
 Go home, find a wench, live long and prosper. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Why can't I stay with you? Aramis and Porthos look to Athos.      As always, he will decide. 
 Because I do not want you to. It's hard to say whether he's acting out of concern for the boy... or he simply doesn't give a damn. Whatever the case, d'Artagnan is crestfallen. The Musketeers mount their horses, Porthos and Aramis adopt a friendlier tone. 
 I know Athos may seem cold and unfriendly, but don't let that fool you. 
 He really is cold and unfriendly. 
 But he's also right. This is our fight, not yours. Go on, get out of here. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Whatever happened to the motto of the Musketeers? 'All for one, and one for all.' 
 Wake up, boy.    The Musketeers are just a dream. (CONTINUED) 
 (pointing) There they go! After them! 
 D'ARTAGNAN (defiant) Long live the Musketeers. And d'Artagnan draws his saber. 
 The three Muskeeters rein their horses, look back to d'Artagnan's bold charge. 
 (with admiration) Do you believe this kid. 
 (shouts to the others) Fall back! I'll take him myself! 
 Rochefort's got the boy. 
 (seemingly unmoved) Too bad. 
 You can't just leave him. Athos spurs his horse, rides away. Aramis and Porthos exchange sad looks and hopeful comments. 
 He has a plan. 
 Definitely.   A plan. And with that, they gallop after. 
 This boy fights like a wildcat. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (exhausted) Thank you. 
 D'ARTAGNAN My sword -- 
 It's magnificent. Where did you get it? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (after a beat) It belonged to my father. 
 Your father... 
 Well now it belongs to me. I collect swords. I take them from the men I kill. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm not dead yet. D'Artagnan starts forward. But Rochefort raises the sword, points it at his throat. D'Artagnan freezes, feels the sharp tip of the blade. 
 Soon enough. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Where am I? 
 I'll give you a hint. It's not the Louvre. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (realizing) The Bastille! I'm in the Bastille! 
 Well, you're the first person who was ever happy to be here. Unfortunately, your visit will be a short one. 
 D'ARTAGNAN What do you mean? 
 You killed one of the Cardinal's Guards. An offense punishable by death. 
 D'ARTAGNAN He interrupted a duel I was fighting. 
 Also punishable by death. 
 D'ARTAGNAN It was a long day. 
 You know them? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Who? 
 The Musketeers. D'Artagnan says nothing.     He will not betray them. Rochefort leans close. 
 Tell me where they are, and I will be lenient. 
 D'ARTAGNAN How? (CONTINUED) 
 (after a beat) I will give you your father's sword. A long beat. D'Artagnan eyes the gleaming saber, forged in the Crusades. He nods, gestures for Rochefort to come closer. As if to impart a secret. Rochefort tilts downward, d'Artagnan rises up... and whispers. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Give me my father's sword, and I'll cut out your heart. Bold words, bad timing. Rochefort snarls, slams the hilt of the sword into d'Artagnan's head. The youth slumps from the wooden stool to the floor, unconscious. 
 Fool.   Like your father. Rochefort storms from the cell. He nods at a grizzled jailer on his way out, indicates the chains and manacles on the cell wall. The jailer scurries over to d'Artagnan, inert in a shallow puddle of foul water. He lifts, drags him toward the chains -- but d'Artagnan's eyes pop open, the jailer reacts with surprise, and... CUT TO: 50   INT. BASTILLE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT                              50 The jailer exits from d'Artagnan's cell, closes the heavy door behind him. A CLOSER look reveals d'Artagnan in the jailer's soiled tunic, eyes bright with adventure. He looks left and right -- dank corridors, darkness, the OCCASIONAL GROAN. And steps lightly into the shadows. 
 I have an errand that requires your singular talents. 
 I was beginning to think you'd forgotten me. 
 Forget you?   Impossible. Richelieu and Milady share a look of intimacy, two vipers from the same pit. 
 Carry this to the Duke of Buckingham. 
 (impressed) You did it. An alliance with Buckingham. 
 The King left me no choice. Now that he's come of age, the boy believes he should rule France. Instead of me. 
 You're going to go through with ... everything? 
 (silences him with a glance) Yes. Everything. (to Milady) You're to leave for Calais at once. A ship called the Persephone will carry you to England. It sails Tuesday, midnight. I want Buckingham's signature next to mine before the King's birthday. Friday. 
 Consider it done. 
 And doing so, shall earn you the gratitude of... a King. 
 On your knees. 
 This is the boy who killed Jussac. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I can explain that -- 
 Silence! Rochefort punches d'Artagnan in the head, knocking him to the floor. The Cardinal frowns. 
 Rochefort. Violence solves nothing. Leave him to me. D'Artagnan reacts to the Cardinal's reasonable tone. Rochefort makes a sullen exit. The Cardinal smiles. 
 Please.    Sit down. D'Artagnan reacts with perceptible awe, as if seeing his first movie star. He sits in a finely brocaded chair, looks at the Cardinal, an apparition in red. The Cardinal speaks, his manner casual, friendly. 
 How much did you hear? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (busted) Not a word, Your Eminence. I stepped from my cell for a breath of air, and became lost in the corridors, it's dark as you know, but then I saw a light up ahead, the light over your door, I... (CONTINUED) 
 You may have many talents, my young friend. But guile is not one of them. Do you have a name? 
 D'ARTAGNAN D'Artagnan. 
 I've heard that name before.   Are you a Gascon? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes, Your Eminence. 
 Tell me. What brought you to Paris. And don't say 'a horse.' 
 D'ARTAGNAN I came to join the King's Musketeers. 
 Bad timing. 
 D'ARTAGNAN So I've heard. 
 D'Artagnan, I like you. I could use a capable young man like you in my Guards. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm honored, Your Eminence, but I don't think I would be very popular with the other men. Not after today. 
 I suppose not. Your heart is set on being a Musketeer. (off his look) When I was your age, I too had dreams of joining the Musketeers. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (surprised) You, Your Eminence? (CONTINUED) 
 Why not? Becoming a Musketeer is the fantasy of every young Frenchman. Or should I say it was... (with seeming kindness, reason) Like the Knights of the Round Table, the Musketeers have outlived their usefulness. They are a thing of the past. (beat) And so have your three friends. Tell me where they are, d'Artagnan, and I will spare your life. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm sorry. But I can't tell you what I do not know. 
 In that case, give my regards to the headsman. 
 D'ARTAGNAN What about my trial? 
 You've just had it. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Wait -- 
 Why? Do you object to losing your head? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   I like it where it is. 
 Then tell me what I want to know, and perhaps you will keep it there a few years longer. (beat) Where are the three Musketeers? (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN I don't know. 
 And if you did? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (after a beat) I wouldn't tell you. 
 I admire your courage, young man. You might have made a fine Musketeer after all. 
 But we'll never know, will we? Rochefort steps into the room, grabs d'Artagnan roughly by the arm, hurls him from the chair to the floor. This time Richelieu does not utter protest. Instead, he turns to the Captain, commands: 
 Find the three Musketeers and kill them. 
 They'll be dead by dawn. 
 A comforting thought. Good night, d'Artagnan. Enjoy it. Morning comes quickly. 
 Milady left at midnight.   By private coach. 
 A remarkable woman. The most beautiful I've ever known. And the deadliest. Which would explain my attraction. (peering down at the scene) How is our young daredevil holding up? 
 He's wishing he'd never heard of the Musketeers. Down below, the horse cart reaches the scaffold. A man- at-arms drops the tailgate, d'Artagnan steps down. He is taken into the custody of a CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS, and several men-at-arms carrying muskets. 
 Fear not, my son... 
 For we are with you, always. The Priest raises his face, reveals it... and winks.         It is Aramis. He whispers: 
 All for one, and one for all... 
 (whispers into his ear) Don't worry, boy. You won't feel a thing. The Captain of the Guards gives Aramis a suspicious look. CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS Where is Father Rostand today? 
 The good father is... all tied up. 
 Barbarism. 
 Men call it justice. 
 Are you surprised? She replies   with contempt, reins her horse away from the square, the   crowd, the executioner's axe. But Constance freezes in   place, eyes wide. As d'Artagnan, upon the cart, rolls   INTO VIEW. 
 It's him. 
 (the usual dour expression, but a hint of levity) Gentlemen, your carriage. Compliments of the Cardinal. 
 Yes! 
 My carriage. 
 Hold on! 
 Well, what have we here? 
 How considerate of the Cardinal to provide us with a snack. (CONTINUED) 
 Hello. 
 How is it that a man of God becomes a man of gold? 
 (looks on, grins) Trinkets for the ladies. 
 Let's share. 
 Would you be so good as to distribute these? Your generosity will be greatly appreciated. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (open the box, reacts) But...? 
 (to the point) Throw the coins, boy.     The people are hungry. 
 D'ARTAGNAN They're firing at us! 
 Champagne? 
 You know I prefer wine. 
 Don't go away. 
 May I recommend this find Cabernet? Porthos hands   the bottle to Athos. Athos hands the reins to d'Artagnan.    D'Artagnan struggles with the reins, tries to control the   horses. And beams, taking delight from every instant   of adventure. Athos SMASHES the top of the BOTTLE, drinks   deeply, settles back to enjoy himself. 
 Turn right at the next street. 
 D'ARTAGNAN The next right...? 
 Turn. Athos growls, d'Artagnan jerks at the reins. The carriage careens around the corner, tipping on two wheels. 
 (to Aramis) That's it. Next time, you drive. 
 Gentlemen, this is the end of the line. I hope you had a pleasant ride. (to d'Artagnan) Unhitch the horses. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But the Guards. 
 Do as I say. D'Artagnan hurries to the horses. Porthos and Aramis climb from the cab. Porthos emits a contented belch. 
 (to Aramis) Your pistol and powder, please. Aramis hands Athos a sack of powder, and his pistol. Athos tosses the sack into the carriage, takes aim with the PISTOL, and SHOOTS it -- igniting the powder inside. 
 Stand back. 
 I'd give five years of your life just to see the Cardinal's face! 
 Ten! CUT TO: 
 One thousand pistoles on each of their heads, dead or alive. The boy knows our plans. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I haven't eaten in three days. I guess with all the excitement, I forgot. 
 Your trip from home has been an eventful one. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (he can't quite believe it) Three days. 
 I heard of a d'Artagnan once. He was a captain in the Musketeers when we were just recruits. 
 D'ARTAGNAN He was my father. 
 A good man, I'm told. 
 I knew there was something familiar about this boy. (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN (sadly) He died when I was nine. The mention of the elder d'Artagnan's death casts a pall. D'Artagnan continues, tentative, the memory still hurts. 
 D'ARTAGNAN All my mother would tell me is that he died in the service of the King. 
 D'Artagnan, your father and another Musketeer were ambushed and murdered outside the Louvre. D'Artagnan pales, stunned and silent.      He manages a broken whisper: 
 D'ARTAGNAN This other Musketeer -- is he still alive? I'd like to talk to him. Athos shakes his head.     Porthos adds: 
 You already have. His name is the Count De Rochefort. D'Artagnan isn't listening. He stands suddenly, turns, and walks away. He doesn't want the Musketeers to see the tears forming in his eyes. Aramis shouts after: 
 D'Artagnan. CUT TO: 
 D'ARTAGNAN (quietly) I imagined his death a hundred time. (MORE) 
 D'ARTAGNAN (CONT'D) On a battlefield, defending his King. Fighting bravely for France. And now... I will find the man who murdered my father and kill him where he stands. 
 A man is better measured by his life than by his death. Your father was bold, and brave. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But you never knew him... 
 He lives in you. That's all the evidence Aramis requires.       D'Artagnan pauses to reflect. Then wonders: 
 D'ARTAGNAN And your father? 
 I was orphaned at a young age. The church took me in. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You didn't have one. 
 But I did. He was a great man, a leader of the church. And his example inspired me to dedicate my life to God's service. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You were a priest... 
 I was a fool. (eyes on the cool water) This great man, this father, betrayed the church, and turned his back on God. To worship power and gold. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ARAMIS (CONT'D) (quietly) It broke my heart to see it. 
 D'ARTAGNAN And you became a Musketeer. 
 I joined the Musketeers and a strange thing happened. I got my faith back. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But who was that man... 
 (turns to face him) All of France knows him. His Eminence, the Cardinal Richelieu. D'Artagnan nearly jumps from his boots. CUT TO: 
 (bowing) Your Eminence. The Musketeers have been sighted riding north on the road to Calais. 
 Don't worry. Thanks to our winged friends, every mercenary and bounty hunter in France will be waiting for them. (with a smile) Isn't modern communication a wonderful thing? (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN ... I couldn't hear it clearly, I was standing by the door, the voices were low -- 
 Go on. 
 D'ARTAGNAN The Cardinal sent someone to England. With a secret treaty. 
 What? 
 D'ARTAGNAN He's made an alliance with a man named, Bucking... Buckingham. The Musketeers look at each other with alarm. 
 The Duke of Buckingham? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (nodding) Do you know him? 
 He rules England the way Richelieu rules France. D'ARTAGNANj A ship called the Persephone waits for the Cardinal's agent at Calais. To take him to England. Tuesday, midnight. 
 (figuring) Calais is over two hundred leagues from here... (CONTINUED) 
 This messenger and the treaty will prove the Cardinal a traitor. If we can get our hands on them. 
 D'ARTAGNAN What are we waiting for, let's go. 
 Wait. 
 (as always, the bottom line) Does the Cardinal know you have this information? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes. 
 Then he knows we have it too. And he'll do everything in his power to stop us. 
 But with three men trying, one of us might be able to make it. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Four. Bold words. D'Artagnan matures by leaps and bounds. Athos almost smiles. 
 Shoot low. We'll need their heads for identification. 
 (with relief) Thank God for a friendly face. My horse broke loose. Can you help me move these kegs out of the road? D'Artagnan starts to dismount. 
 Stay on your horse. 
 D'ARTAGNAN He needs our help. 
 Don't worry.   We'll help him. 
 Won't you step down... Musketeers? 
 Gentlemen, I beg you. Please put away your weapons and remove these kegs from the road. We'd prefer to ride on without having to kill you. D'Artagnan and the "Farmers" gape at Aramis in surprise. 
 You're threatening us? 
 It's not a threat, it's a fact. If you don't haul those kegs away, you're dead where you stand. The Farmer laughs, contemptuously. He raises his pistol and aims it at Porthos' head. But before he can pull the trigger, THREE EXPLOSIONS ERUPT from under the cloaks of Athos, Porthos and Aramis. When the smoke clears, d'Artagnan is startled to see the three dead "Farmers" sprawled in the road and the three pistols emerging from beneath the cloaks of the Musketeers. 
 Mine hit the ground first. 
 Mine was taller. Aramis swings out of the saddle and begins to perform last rites over the bodies. D'Artagnan still can't be- lieve what just happened. He turns to Porthos. Porthos raises the barrel to his lips and blows away the gunsmoke. 
 There's only one rule, d'Artagnan -- stay alive. 
 Good evening. 
 See to our horses and bring us some food. 
 (apologetic) I'm sorry but we have little to spare. The Cardinal's Guards were here today. They helped themselves to our food and then refused to pay. 
 (bitter) In the name of God, I'm sure. Porthos is on the lookout for danger. He reaches inside his cloak for a weapon and, in doing so, accidentally exposes his Musketeer tunic. 
 #1 (crying out) Musketeers! 
 (honored) Musketeers in my house! Gentlemen, put away your swords and come in. Anyone who fights the Cardinal is welcome here. 
 I think we've found a home. 
 We don't have much but what we have is yours. 
 Ladies, you're in for a treat tonight. Allow me to introduce myself. I'm the Musketeer they call Porthos. Porthos beams, waiting for a big response but nothing happens. The Barmaids look at each other. 
 (repeating; louder) Porthos. 
 It's hard to believe they haven't heard of the great Porthos. 
 Oh, shut up, Aramis. 
 (with excitement) Aramis? Did you say Aramis? And with that, the three Barmaids desert Porthos and scurry across the room to attach themselves to Aramis. Porthos shakes his head and flops down in a chair. 
 I don't get it. I just don't get it. 
 I said, 'A Queen is no different than a barmaid in the dark. Though less... practiced in the arts of pleasure...' 
 If you're going to be a proper Musketeer, you'll have to learn the manly art of wenching. Right, ladies? The Barmaids heartily concur. D'Artagnan looks over Porthos' shoulder, to the dark-haired Barmaid seen previ- ously. Porthos follows his gaze, grins. 
 Ahh, very good. Your first subject. But you'll need instruction. Watch closely. Porthos pulls one of the Barmaids to his chest, brings her lips toward his. 
 The secret to wenching is the first kiss. For in that kiss, a lasting impression is made. If it is weak, she will think you are weak. And if it is comical, she will think you are a clown. With me? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Weak... weak.    Comical... clown. 
 Very good.   And as a Musketeer is never weak,  and only rarely a clown, your  first kiss must be all the things  that you are. Like this... Porthos gives the Barmaid a powerful kiss.      He breaks it, turns to d'Artagnan with a grin. 
 You may speak first if you like, your name, her name, an endearment or two. But words are usually a waste of time. 
 Only if you don't know which words to say. All turn to regard Aramis. He'll play along too. Porthos reacts with delight. D'Artagnan with interest. Aramis continues: 
 Words may make a more lasting impression than a thousand of Porthos' kisses. 
 (still reeling) Not likely. 
 I'll demonstrate. Please.   Sit beside me. Aramis' courtly behavior is as out of place in these en- virons as it is persuasive. The Barmaid slips from Porthos' lap, sits down on the bench beside him. Aramis does not touch her. He simply looks into her eyes... and begins to speak. 
 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate: Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, And summer's leash hath all too short a date; Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines, And often is his gold complexion dimmed; And every fair from fair sometimes declines, By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed; But thy eternal summer shall not fade. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ARAMIS (CONT'D) Nor lose possession of that fair thou owest, Nor shall death brag thou wanderest in his shade, When in eternal lines to time thou growest; So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see. So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.' 
 Shakespeare. 
 That's cheating. The Barmaid on his lap disagrees. 
 It's beautiful. D'Artagnan looks at the dark-haired Barmaid across the room. Porthos urges him on. 
 Come on, d'Artagnan. We haven't got all night. 
 D'ARTAGNAN 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou are move lovely and more tempest, er, more tempered...' (beat) Ahh, to hell with it -- 
 The boy's a natural. (CONTINUED) 
 So little time, so much to learn. 
 In all the years I've know him... I have never seen Athos smile. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Why is he sitting by himself? 
 Athos takes his drinking seriously. Ignore him. He'll be his usual warm, charming self by morning. (calls out) Service! My lap is cold! A Barmaid scurries INTO   VIEW. Porthos grabs her by the waist, adds the Barmaid   to the one already sitting on his lap. The chair breaks    beneath them, and all three go sprawling on the floor,   laughing heartily. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Come join us. Athos pulls d'Artagnan down with a dark smile.     He fills his flagon for him. 
 You fight like a Musketeer. Let's see if you can drink like one. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'll drink anything you put in front of me. 
 Famous last words. (raising his flagon) What shall we drink to? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Love? 
 Love. (beat) Would you like to hear a story, d'Artagnan? A love story? Athos' voice reveals unexpected vulnerability, the pain he keeps inside. D'Artagnan is fascinated, moved. He nearly whispers: 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes. Athos takes a long pull from the bottle of burgundy, wipes the blood red wine from his lips. 
 I once knew a man... one of the Counts of Berry. My native province. When the good Count was about your age, he fell in love with a visitor from Paris. A breathtaking girl of seventeen. She was more than beautiful, d'Artagnan. She was... intoxicating. And this man, the poor idiot, he married her. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Isn't that what people do when they fall in love? 
 (sharply) Be quiet and listen. (beat) The Count took her to his castle and made her the first lady of the province. They were happy for a time, as happy as a man and a woman can be. Then one day, while riding in the woods, the girl was thrown from her horse, and knocked unconscious. The Count hurried to help her. Her dress was torn. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ATHOS (CONT'D) On her her arm, the woman wore a gold band in the shape of a serpent. It was the only article of clothing she refused to remove. The Count's curiosity got the best of him. He reached over and slid down the gold band. He saw something on her arm... something she'd kept hidden 'til then... 
 D'ARTAGNAN What? 
 The fleur d'lis. She'd been branded... 
 The Count's angel turned out to be a murderess who escaped the Executioner's blade. She swore that she loved him. Swore that she had changed. And if he would just keep her secret, they would live a long life together. Athos pauses, imagines that life.      The Count and his angel. 
 But the Count was young and he was stupid. He was tormented by the ridicule of his social class. And so he rejected her. For her lies and for her past. (beat) And turned her over to the authorities to be executed for the crime. 
 But you see... his heart did not agree.  The Count soon realized what she had meant to him. And what he had done. (MORE) 
 ATHOS (CONT'D) That his... betrayal was far greater than her own. (beat) Soon after he foreswore the society that shaped him. Gave up his title. And was never seen again. 
 D'ARTAGNAN He loved her. 
 He killed her. It seemed like the same thing after a while. 
 Good.   More for me. 
 Aramis -- play something with some blood in it! I feel like dancing! Aramis launches into something appropriate. Porthos and a Barmaid get up and begin a festive folk dance. Porthos is damned good. His joie de vivre is infectious and soon everyone in the inn is clapping and encouraging him. Every once in awhile, another WEAPON -- a dagger or something -- drops out of Porthos' clothing and hits the floor with a CLATTER. 
 Care to dance, Athos? 
 Only if I can lead. 
 Aramis!   Athos made a joke! 
 Excuse me, gentlemen. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Were we making too much noise? 
 You told me to wake you at dawn. 
 Well? 
 It's dawn. They turn in disbelief to the shuttered windows. Sure enough. Sunlight is peeking in through the cracks. CUT TO: 
 Beautiful morning, eh, d'Artagnan? 
 You know,   d'Artagnan, it's not a good idea   to travel on an empty stomach.    You really should have had a big   portion of those sheep's brains... 
 D'ARTAGNAN My head feels like it's filled with the King's marching band. Would you please stop whistling? (CONTINUED) 
 Whistling?   I'm not whistling. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Well someone is. 
 (to others) The Barmaid's kiss left him dizzy. 
 I hear it too. It sounds like... 
 (knows immediatley) A connon ball. 
 I hate cannon balls. 
 (to d'Artagnan) How's your head now? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm beginning to wish the Cardinal had chopped if off. 
 Stay with us, and you just might get your wish. Athos spurs his horse across the field, d'Artagnan and the Musketeers follow. But they discover crude battle- ments in their path. Athos changes direction, sees six horsemen waiting for them in the near distance. He changes direction again, as the horsemen charge after. 
 Split in half! D'Artagnan rides with me! 
 We'll see you in Calais! 
 Or hell! 
 But how, your Majesty? How can you tell if you're really in love? 
 Do you think about him all the time? 
 (considers; replies) Yes. 
 And when he's around, do your knees feel as weak as water? 
 Yes. 
 And when he looks at you, do you suddenly forget how to breathe? (CONTINUED) 
 Yes. 
 Then you're in love. 
 (thrilled by the knowledge; knew it all alone) I am. 
 Who is he? 
 You'll never believe it. 
 Of course I will. 
 You won't. 
 Who? 
 The young man who rescued us from the bandit. 
 The young man on the scaffold? 
 Yes. 
 (turns back in the water, peers ahead) You're right. I don't believe it. 
 Are you in love, Your Majesty? 
 What an impertinent question. (CONTINUED) 
 Are you? 
 My love... is a matter of state. It's complicated. A sad beat.    Constance teases: 
 Do you think about him all the time? 
 (playing along) As Queen, my mind touches on many subjects. 
 Do your knees feel as weak as water? 
 Never. 
 When he looks at you, do you forget how to breathe? A beat. And Anne is a girl of eighteen again, not Queen. Wistful, she replies: 
 I hope he will someday.   I hope I will too. HOLD ON Anne for a beat. 
 Constance, have you seen my...? 
 Your Majesty, forgive me. 
 Cardinal. 
 I need your help. And could not in good conscience wait another minute. 
 You want my help? 
 Yes. 
 On what matter? 
 Your... husband. 
 (remembering Richelieu's last encounter with Louis) Your King. 
 Of course. As Your Eminence has been kind enough to advise me... (nods assent) It's the least I can do. 
 I am worried about the King's... happiness. 
 What do you mean? 
 The Huguenot rebellion, occupation in the Antilles and Cayenne. The coming war with France. These are not the usual hobbies of youth. 
 No. (CONTINUED) 
 And now he wishes to postpone his birthday celebration. 
 Why? 
 He feels it is not... appropriate. 
 It sounds as though he is concerned with more important matters. 
 Which is exactly why we must celebrate. (off her look) To show the world that the King of France is strong enough to face any enemy on any field. To show France... that he is King. (beat) He will listen to you. If you will speak. Richelieu makes his case with forceful eloquence, seeming loyalty. Anne considers, replies, noncommittal: 
 I will speak to him. Anne senses hidden agenda, intrigues below the surface. The conversation's conspiratorial tone begins to disturb her. 
 Now, if you'll excuse me, I... 
 Of course. Anne nods, turns back toward the chambers.       Richelieu calls after. 
 Your Majesty? (off her look) Please understand that I do not underestimate the value of your assistance. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 RICHELIEU (CONT'D) And that I wish for you to consider -- in fact, to know -- all that you and I might accomplish. Together. (quietly, as if to justify) For France. Richelieu steps away, his red cape swirling behind him. Anne feels a chill, pulls her robe more tightly about her body. CUT TO: 
 I'm sorry to be late, Your Majesty, but I was wrestling with an important matter of state. 
 Why is it I don't see any of my Musketeers? 
 I'm afraid... that's impossible. 
 Why? (CONTINUED) 
 They have become outlaws. They are terrorizing the countryside, robbing and killing innocent people. 
 There must be some mistake. 
 No mistake. I have reports from the local constables involved. 
 Musketeers... 
 They are better off disbanded. Louis turns back to the balcony, the soldiers marching below. His mood glum and lonely. He sighs, moves on to another matter of business. 
 Your Eminence, I've been hearing some very troubling rumors about you. 
 There are so many to choose from. Is it the one about my alleged alliance with Buckingham? Let's see if I remember it correctly. While the English attack from without, I'll undermine the throne from within -- depose you -- and become sovereign of France myself. That rumor, Your Majesty? 
 It does seem rather farfetched. 
 If there are any doubts of my loyalty, they'll be put to rest when we appear together at your birthday celebration. 
 I've been thinking about that. A birthday celebration when we're on the brink of war... 
 (alert, ready for this as well) Your subjects are eager to celebrate the birth of their King at a time like this. 
 I'm not so eager. 
 I have an idea. Why don't you discuss the matter with your Queen? Louis looks up, wonders. As Richelieu draws him deeper into his spider's strategems. 
 My horse will not survive another league. 
 And you? 
 (in kind) Ten, twenty at the most. 
 Here's just the thing.     A nice, relaxing boat ride. At the bottom of the hill: a crude ferry lands at the bank of a swift, choppy river. 
 A privilege to carry you on my humble boat... The Ferryman turns a greedy eye on the Woman and child. 
 Two pistoles. 
 But I only have one. Couldn't my child ride free? She's so small... 
 (hand outstretched, demanding) Two pistoles. A courtly voice intervenes. 
 Put away your money, madame. You and your child will cross the river under our protection. For free. (CONTINUED) 
 Nobody rides for free! Under your protection bloody well indeed! I'll teach you a thing or two about protection! Apple- cheeked young fools!! -- Just who do you think you are!! 
 (waits for the tirade to cease; simply) Musketeers. Two two Cavaliers react to the word. The Ferryman does, too -- into cringing, obedient servant. 
 Musketeers? Well, why didn't you say so? Of course you'll ride for free. I insist on it. This way, pretty madame. My what a lovely little girl... 
 Porthos! 
 What? Aramis takes Porthos by the shoulder and turns him so he can see their pursuers pouring over the top of the hill on their horses. 
 We sail! 
 You're those Musketeers everyone's been looking for. 
 Popularity has its price. 
 I have some excellent brandy here. Would you gentlemen care to drink a toast with us to the Cardinal? 
 We'd be happy to. Porthos produces a bottle from under his cloak. 
 If you'll drink one with us to the King. 
 But the only King we recognize... is the Cardinal. 
 There are those who would call that treason. 
 Happily, no such objections have been raised... here. 
 All right.   I'll object. 
 I'm listening. 
 Let's see. You are, by your dress and by your manner, members of a bone-lazy class of servile ninnyhammers whose slavish allegiance to His Eminence the Cardinal is as that of a dog who likes nothing better than to sniff today where he has peed the day before. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 PORTHOS (CONT'D) (beat) Piss is piss, no matter what robes surround it. 
 Well said. I'm impressed. Ninnyhammers. 
 I was momentarily inspired. 
 May I reply? 
 (courtly) By all means. 
 Better to be a dog in the service of a great master, than a beef- witted moron so dazzled by the throne that he does not see the true nature of the foolish boy who wobbles atop it. Which is to say, that most muddy-brained of all men... a Musketeer. The Cavaliers have already pulled out their swords. Porthos and Aramis now reach for their own. Porthos deadpans: 
 Maybe there's something  about us that just pisses people  off. At least I'd like to think  so. It's too bad we can only kill  them once. 
 I've been called a lot of things in my time... 
 (eyes on the opposite shore) Porthos... 
 But beef-witted is a little more than I can stand, not to mention unfair... 
 Porthos... 
 What? Aramis indicates the opposite shore as the flatboat approaches it. There, waiting patiently, swords and muskets already drawn... is a patrol of Cardinal's Guards. 
 Can you swim? 
 (doesn't like the sound of this) No.   My horse can. 
 That'll do. 
 But...? 
 You go first and I'll watch your progress. 
 No, no.   Please. After you. 
 Thank you.   God speed. Porthos manages a wink as he floats into the distance. 
 A nice relaxing boat ride... (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN Do you think we've lost them? 
 They'll catch up eventually. 
 D'ARTAGNAN My father used to hunt in a forest like this. He promised to take me on my tenth birthday. I don't know why he picked that year. Something about a boy becoming a man. I'd lay in bed at night and imagine it, just the two of us. But he died before I could go with him. Athos is unmoved, or so it would seem.       He replies with quiet cynicism: 
 Well. You have your boyhood wish at last. The dark forest. The thrill of the hunt. The nearness of death. Only d'Artagnan is the hunted, not the hunter. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'd be proud to die for my King. 
 I just wanted to save you from the life of a Musketeer. You don't have to go looking for experience, d'Artagnan. It'll find you soon enough. And when it does -- it will mark you forever. 
 I'll hold them off for as long as I can. Go on without me. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I can't leave you here. Not like this. 
 Ride to Calais and stop the Cardinal's agent. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Athos... I can't. 
 Go, or I'll kill you myself. 
 D'ARTAGNAN A duel then. (CONTINUED) 
 You're insane. 
 D'ARTAGNAN We never finished the first. 
 All right. I'll toss a coin. Tails I stay, heads you remain. Agreed? 
 Tails.    I stay. 
 D'ARTAGNAN But...? Athos reloads, FIRES below. D'Artagnan recognizes the kindness he has received. That Athos cannot fully express it. And that there is no use arguing with him. 
 D'ARTAGNAN At least take my pistol. 
 (gruff; yet proud) Don't let us down... Musketeer. There are tears in d'Artagnan's eyes.       He knows Athos hasn't got a chance. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (a choke of emotion) I'll never forget you. 
 Go! Athos turns away, SHOOTS at another horseman.       D'Artagnan runs to his MOUNT, GALLOPS away. 
 (O.S.) What is it, Henri? 
 HENRI (DRIVER) There's a body in the road, Milady. 
 (O.S.) Be careful. Pistols are cocked.    Henri's shadow falls across d'Artagnan's body. 
 It's a young man. He appears to be injured. We hear the CARRIAGE DOOR OPEN.     FOOTSTEPS to d'Artagnan's side. 
 (O.S.) My, what a handsome boy. Put him inside with me. 
 Welcome back.    Did you dream? 
 D'ARTAGNAN You. 
 Have we met? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I... saw you in Paris. D'Artagnan notices that his shoulder has been bandaged. He looks around the large room. A FIRE ROARS in the grate. Food and drink have been set upon a table. D'Artagnan continues, still groggy, uncertain: 
 D'ARTAGNAN Where am I...? 
 This is Calais. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (with a jolt) Calais! (muttered; to self) The ship... Tuesday at midnight... D'Artagnan leaps out of bed. Then realizes he is stark naked. Milady smiles. D'Artagnan gathers a bedsheet around him. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (frantic) Where are my clothes? 
 Filthy. I'm having them cleaned. Is something wrong? 
 D'ARTAGNAN What day is it? What time?! 
 It's Tuesday, near nine. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Nine?   Are you sure? 
 Quite sure. D'Artagnan relaxes slightly.        Milady rises from the bed. She wears a sky blue dressing       gown, something soft and silken beneath it. D'Artagnan        reacts perceptibly. En- joying his discomfort, Milady       crosses the room, joins him at the window. 
 Are you in a hurry? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (after a beat) How did I... get here? 
 I found you in the road. Discarded. Like an unwanted kitten. Do you have a name or shall I make one up for you? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (nervous) My name is d'Artagnan. 
 D'Artagnan. I like that. I am the Countess de Winter. Milady. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Countess? 
 My husband's dead. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm sorry. 
 I have learned to live with death. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Countess, I'm very grateful for what you've done, but I can't stay here. I've got... 
 What...? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Important business. 
 How mysterious. A handsome young man with 'important business' in the still of night. Does it involve a young lady? 
 D'ARTAGNAN No. 
 Does it require clothes? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   I need my clothes. 
 They won't be ready for at least an hour. 
 D'ARTAGNAN An hour? 
 I told the  innkeeper to bring them when they  are dry. Until then, I'm afraid  you are my prisoner. Would the  prisoner care for a drink? 
 D'ARTAGNAN (always innocent; never coy) I am... thirsty. Milady pours wine into glasses, turns to face him.      And offers a smile that dazzles and burns. 
 Good. Then we will sit by the fire, and eat and drink, and you may impress, perhaps even move me, with the story of how you came to lie unconscious, in the middle of the night, on the road to Calais. (soft seductively) I love a good adventure. D'Artagnan hesitates, then steps to her. CUT TO: 
 (dry; re: Rochefort's fencing) The wonderful thing about an imaginary opponent is that he is always greatly skilled, and always easily defeated. The pride of victory, without the risk of loss. If only life were like that. 
 Milady has reached Calais. 
 I told you not to worry about the Musketeers. They are dead by now. 
 Buckingham's signature will be on the treaty by morning. 
 The King's birthday celebration...? 
 Will proceed as planned. Thanks to the kind intercession of Queen Anne. Rochefort steps closer, speaks quietly. 
 And our plans...? 
 (knowingly) Will proceed as well. Richelieu pours two glasses of port, offers one to Rochefort. They turn, raise their glasses to the King's portrait. And drink. CUT TO: 
 You are sad. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I was thinking about my friends. Milady knows when to speak, and when to listen. She looks at d'Artagnan with gentle expression, allows him to continue. The warm room, the wine, her kindness. All conspire to loosen his tongue. D'Artagnan speaks quietly, from the heart: 
 D'ARTAGNAN The three best friends a man could have. We were separated on our way to Calais. I'm afraid I'll never see them again. 
 What brings you here? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'd like to tell you. But I can't. 
 'Important business.' 
 I understand. Men make bold plans in secret. And women wait... to mourn, or to celebrate the outcome. I know from experience, it's a lonely vigil. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (after a beat) All I can tell you is... I'm on a mission for the King. 
 (looks up; laughs lightly) I've heard that one before. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm serious. 
 You are a young man. And young men are given to exaggeration. However, if you would like to entertain me with a story, I'm eager to hear it. And please, make it very brave, filled with handsome knights and beautiful ladies. I know, a dragon -- There is nothing a man is more loathe to experience than a woman who does not take him seriously. D'Artagnan acts accordingly, and reveals: (CONTINUED) 
 D'ARTAGNAN I came to Calais to stop a spy from sailing to England. 
 (alert; though d'Artagnan doesn't see it) A spy...? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes. 
 I believe you... (beat) Aren't you afraid? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Musketeers are not afraid of anything. 
 I knew it. I knew you were a Musketeer the moment I saw you. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You did? 
 Of course. (with sudden concern) But, d'Artagnan, if this spy was to find out you are here, your life could be in grave danger. 
 D'ARTAGNAN A Musketeer is not afriad of danger. 
 I'm dangerous. You're not afraid of me? Her tone heralds a sudden shift. D'Artagnan sees the look in her eyes, can almost feel her lips upon him. But he resists. There is Constance's memory to consider. And midnight as it approaches. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You're not dangerous. 
 Then what am I? 
 D'ARTAGNAN You're... beautiful. 
 Beauty, danger. They are the same. And with that, she reaches up to her hair, an ivory comb... 
 D'ARTAGNAN I'm sorry -- D'Artagnan pulls back -- just as Milady's arm arcs down toward his neck, holding a long sharp stick pin, almost a dagger, attached to an ivory comb. D'Artagnan sees it in the nick of time, parries with his free hand, knocking the dagger to the rug. Milady leaps after it, hands out- stretched. D'Artagnan follows, battles for the dagger, stunned with fear and surprise: 
 D'ARTAGNAN What're you doing?! Have you lost your mind?! 
 You came to Calais to stop a spy from sailing to England. 
 D'ARTAGNAN My God... (CONTINUED) 
 (crying out) Parker!! The chamber door flies open. Henri and Parker, the Indo- Chinese bodyguard, appear. Parker faces d'Artagnan with a half-smile. He holds out his hands, both empty. And steps toward him. D'Artagnan looks at the dagger in his right hand. Then, unwilling to fight the man with an un- fair advantage, he tosses the dagger to the side, steps forward to meet him. 
 Kill him. Parker holds him fast. Henri steps forward.        And d'Artagnan thinks fast. 
 D'ARTAGNAN You can kill me. But a surprise waits for you in England. That even Buckingham can't prevent. 
 (stops Henri with a gesture) What... surprise? 
 D'ARTAGNAN That's one thing I'll never tell you. 
 D'Artagnan. You are young, vain, and foolish. But I do not know if you are clever. 
 We'll take him with us. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 MILADY (CONT'D) (to d'Artagnan, with a nod at Parker) Parker will devise ways to convince you to share your final secret with me. It is a long voyage. Milady's eyes show nothing but cold cruelty. 
 The bodyguards are waiting outside. 
 The back stairs. Hurry! They change directions. As he is pulled away, d'Artagnan catches a glimpse of Armand de Winter below. 
 D'ARTAGNAN The man at the inn... what did he want? 
 (hollow laugh) Justice. Honor. Revenge. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Why? 
 He is the brother of my late husband, Lord de Winter. He blames me for de Winter's death. He thinks I murdered him. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Did you murder your husband, Milady? 
 What do you think? 
 D'ARTAGNAN I think he's not the first husband you killed. (off her look) I once knew a man, one of the Counts of Berry. He told me a story... of beauty and danger. He was the bravest man I've ever known. And the saddest. 
 I know... 
 What's the matter, d'Artagnan? Still hoping for your friends to ride to the rescue? 
 D'ARTAGNAN My friends are dead. 
 Well. If it's any consolation, you'll soon be joining them. Milady's return to form does not surprise. Parker shoves d'Artagnan toward the fog-enshrouded ship. A name can be made out on her barnacled hull. Persephone. 
 We are the Countess de Winter's party, arrived from Paris. Permission to come aboard. 
 (O.S.) Permission granted. 
 Take us to your captain. The tall figure does not reply, nor does he move.        Henri demands: 
 What are you, deaf? Henri goes to shake the man. He grabs his arm, and the man pitches forward, falling face first on the deck. Henri jumps back in alarm. Milady and the others react. 
 What is this? Milady's Bodyguards rush around the deck, confront the other silent silhouettes. They, like the tall figure... are dead. The limp bodies topple at their touch. The Bodyguards shout alarm and panic: 
 Dead!   They're all dead! 
 (O.S.) Well I certainly hope so. After all that hard work. 
 (calling to him) You look like you've seen a ghost. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Two of them. 
 Remind me to tell you the story of horses that could fly above raging waters. A heroic tale of love, death, and Musketeers. Suitable for the general public. Porthos wades into the Bodyguards, at play, shouting as he goes. 
 All right then. All those who wish to die, raise your hands! Don't by shy, there's plenty to go around! D'Artagnan grabs a sword from the deck, turns to join the fray. And finds himself face to face with Parker, the Indo-Chinese bodyguard. Parker has two Oriental swords spinning in his hands. One knocks d'Artagnan's sword out of his hand. D'Artagnan does a back flip but falls on the slippery deck. As Parker is about to chop d'Artagnan's head off, his face grimaces as he is lifted on a sword OUT OF FRAME. In the mist Athos is revealed! 
 Sorry I'm late. Did I miss anything? D'Artagnan almost cries with happiness.       He leaps to his feet and embraces Athos. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I thought you were dead. 
 Keep your mind on the mission, d'Artagnan. 
 Boy, it's a miracle you're still alive fighting like that. 
 D'ARTAGNAN What do you mean? 
 First, always find your enemy's weakness. Second, take advantage of it. Watch me. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Find the weakness. Take advantage. Got it. Aramis kneels at a dying man, delivers muttered last rites. A Bodyguard races INTO VIEW, means to kill him where he kneels. Aramis doesn't miss a beat -- he shifts, rises, delivers a punch and kick, knocking the man off the ship to the water below. A SPLASH is heard. And Aramis resumes a priestly pose, continues the litany. CUT TO: 
 That's our ship... The two Sailors pull out daggers, and bound up the gangplank. 
 Porthos the Pirate!! 
 I told you I was famous. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Porthos the Pirate? 
 Privateer.   There's a difference. Every Musketeer is running from something or someone. D'Artagnan deadpans: 
 D'ARTAGNAN I love a good sea story.     Do tell me sometime. Porthos reacts to d'Artagnan's jest. But before he can reply, the youth has bolted back to the fray. 
. 
 Did you find the Cardinal's spy? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Yes. 
 Did you kill him? 
 D'ARTAGNAN Athos.   The spy... is a woman. (CONTINUED) 
 What? 
 No. 
 Stop!! Milady takes a halting step, then turns to face him. Athos holds his musket in a steady hand. A very long beat. Milady takes a step closer. Finally, she whispers, with love, with hate: 
 Athos. 
 How did you do it, Sabine? How did you come back from the dead? 
 A kind gentleman took pity on me. 
 I did not. 
 No, Count. You were too proud to listen to the truth. I learned the value of lies soon after. 
 Give me the Cardinal's treaty. 
 No. 
 Then I will shoot. Athos cocks the trigger.     Milady whispers: 
 Be kind.   And aim for my heart. Athos' face is a mask of contradiction. He tries to pull the trigger, but it is not in him. Milady recognizes his pain with a nod. She feels it, too. Then, briefly, before she leaves him, Milady speaks softly. The past, their love, and where it led them. 
 I remember... everything. 
 Countess de Winter... As d'Artagnan, Porthos, and Aramis arrive on the scene... 
 The treaty outlines Richelieu's plan to forge an alliance with Buckingham. 
 What about the King? 
 He is not mentioned directly. But the agreement is contingent on a 'demonstration' of the Cardinal's power. 
 D'ARTAGNAN A demonstration? What does that mean? 
 I don't know. Athos' face grows dark. He has been silent throughout. Now he rises to his feet. 
 I know someone who does. D'Artagnan, Aramis, and Porthos watch in grim silence as Athos crosses the room to an imposing door. CUT TO: 
 I'd like a word with your prisoner. 
 (a beat, he nods) She dies at dawn. 
 (quietly sardonic) Did you come to offer me consolation? 
 No. 
 There was a time when I would've given my life for a kind word. 
 I could not give it, Sabine. I was... a fool. Milady hears the regret in his voice, holds his gaze. Athos indicates Armand in the corner. 
 Did you kill his brother and his father as he says? 
 (a long beat, honest at the last) I have become... the nightmare you once thought me to be. 
 But not before. Not us. 
 No. The memory will keep me company. Athos kneels at her side, near to pleading: 
 Do you know the Cardinal's plans? 
 Yes. 
 Tell me. 
 Will you spare my life? 
 I can't. (CONTINUED) 
 (remembering another time, another place) Society demands swift justice. (off his look) I'll take the secret to my grave. 
 Sabine. You'll die for your crimes. Nothing can stop that. But how you leave this world is up to you. Milady offers a half-smile, takes his hand in hers. 
 What did the world ever do for me? HOLD ON Athos.       Milady's hand in his.   All that he is feeling. CUT TO: 
 I forgive you for your crimes. Die in peace. 
 Die in peace. 
 I am the resurrection and the life, sayeth the Lord. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die... The Executioner's sharp blade shines in the light of dawn. 
 On your knees. Milady kneels, the Executioner steps closer. The tableau silhouetted against a reddish glow on the horizon. The Executioner brushes Milady's braid from her neck, exposing the soft white skin beneath. He raises the scimitar overhead, and just as he is about to bring it down... a cry is heard, torn from the heart: 
 No. 
 What's this...? Porthos leaps forward, locks his great arms around Athos. 
 Athos -- But Athos breaks free.       Milady rises to her feet.   Athos rushes to her. 
 Forgive me, Sabine.       Please forgive. 
 I do. 
 The Cardinal intends to assassinate the King at his birthday celebration on Friday. And with that, Milady reaches forward, offers a gentle kiss. Then, as Athos and the others look on, stunned, uncertain... she takes a backward step, finds the cliff's edge... and steps over it. The Executioner rushes to look after. The others follow. Except for Athos, who remains rooted in place, eyes on the distant horizon. A long silence. THUNDER RUMBLES. 
 God's justice be done. 
 Amen. 
 Musketeers. 
 The King's life in danger.   We have work to do. 
 Impressive. 
 He can do it every time. Rochefort signals approval to a solitary marksman positioned far away on one of the roof parapets. The marksman rises from a shooter's crouch, bows curtly, and begins to reload his musket. 
 And he has no qualms about... 
 None. He believes that man should honor no Kings before God. 
 A man of faith. How delightful. (turns back to the painting) Whatever you're paying him, double it. I want the King's birthday to be a memorable event. And rehang this painting in my chamber. Just as it is. HOLD ON Richelieu for a beat.   Framed by a sky filled with stars. His evil intent. CUT TO: 
 ... the aforenamed Musketeers are declared outlaws and are sentenced to death. Any person sheltering or aiding them will be hanged -- HOOFBEATS interrupt. The Captain turns in irritation. And Porthos and Aramis ride to either side, snatch the man up by the arms, drag him briefly through the air, and deposit him with a thud against a hitching post. The Captain, stunned, looks down at the piece of parchment now attached to his chest. All For One, And One For All. CUT TO: 
 They look... happy. 
 Hungry, more likely. 
 Still, you were right about the celebration. And when the Cardinal told me how much it meant to you... 
 I said nothing. 
 But... ? 
 The Cardinal expressed in confidence how much the celebration would mean to you... Both pause to consider the manipulation. 
 I'm not sure which is sadder... to die so young. Or to die a King. Richelieu turns from the procession. Speaks to Rochefort who pauses in the shadowy alcove behind him. 
 France will not go wanting. A new King will sit on the throne. The true King after all... 
 Is everything ready? 
 Yes, Your Eminence. 
 Are you sure? 
 I'd stake my life on it, Your Eminence. 
 (a dark beat) Rest assured, Captain. You have. 
 (to d'Artagnan) Look through the surrounding area. We'll try to reach the King... 
 D'ARTAGNAN But...? 
 Go! 
 I do not trust him. 
 I'm not sure who to trust. 
 Then we will discover the truth together. Louis likes the sound of that.     They step side by side toward the balcony. CUT TO: 
 Save the King!! 
 Your Majesty... 
 Leave us... alone. That's when a loud BOOM rocks the room. 
 (a cold whisper) Kill him. Kill her, too. 
 (to Anne) Get behind me. Rochefort takes confident steps toward the King. But one last BOOM and the great DOOR comes CRASHING down on the Guards, revealing a tide of Musketeers on the other side. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis at the lead. (CONTINUED) 
 Greetings, Monsieur Cyclops.   Are we interrupting? 
 Not for long. 
 Look out! Anne looks up. Constance tosses the goblet to her. Anne catches it neatly, brings it down on the head of the hapless Guard. Constance smiles, leaps forward. 
 D'ARTAGNAN This sword belongs to me. 
 D'Artagnan.   Kill him where he stands. These are d'Artagnan's words. A son vowing to avenge the death of his father. D'Artagnan wonders. Rochefort confirms. 
 By all means. Let's discover if you are as brave a man as your father was. And as foolish. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (stunned by the revelation as it unfolds) What...? 
 He died for his King and for France. But most of all... he died on the end of my sword. (the final curse) As will you. Rochefort smiles a taunt.     D'Artagnan raises his sword, whispers to heaven. 
 D'ARTAGNAN This is for you, Father. 
 One thing's certain. You're no Musketeer. But d'Artagnan remembers Athos' advice. "Always find your enemy's weakness." He shoves a thumb into Rochefort's good eye. Rochefort stumbles backward. D'Artagnan plunges his sword into Monsieur Cyclops's heart. 
 D'ARTAGNAN Take it back...? 
 I might... have been... mistaken. 
 D'ARTAGNAN No!! 
 Your Majesty, that document is an obvious forgery. I am clearly the victim of a conspiracy designed and perpetuated by these three Musketeers. 
 This is a complicated matter, Your Eminence, affecting both France and the crown... A beat. As all wonder if Richelieu will manage to elude blame after all. But Louis continues with quiet author- ity, just a trace of humor. As King, and as a man. 
 And so, until such time as I and my advisors -- (gestures toward Anne; the Musketeers) -- can determine the whole truth of the matter. I invite you to await our decision in the comfort of... the Bastille. 
 You can't do this to me.   I'm the Cardinal of France. (CONTINUED) 
 (never more certain) And I am its King. Shouts of "Long live the King!       Long live the King!" 
 And as King... I hereby reinstate the Musketeers. A tremendous cheer is heard from all. Richelieu is led from the room. He pauses in front of d'Artagnan. 
 Congratulations, Monsieur d'Artagnan. I'll be keeping an eye on you. 
 D'ARTAGNAN (unphased) Thank you, Your Eminence.    I'll be watching you, too. Richelieu smiles his crocodile smile. Followed by guards, he turns and strides away, hands clasped behind his back, scarlet robes billowing behind him. Louis turns to the Musketeers.       He indicates d'Artagnan. 
 Is this the young man who saved my life? Porthos puts a hand on d'Artagnan's shoulder. 
 His name's d'Artagnan, Sire. 
 Approach, d'Artagnan. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I have something that belongs to ... Your Majesty... D'Artagnan produces the bracelet he found on the country road. He holds it out to her. The King wonders, the Queen smiles. (CONTINUED) 
 Thank you, d'Artagnan. But the bracelet does not belong to me. (off his look) It belongs to her. 
 D'Artagnan, I am in your debt. What can I do to repay the courage you've shown me? Anything, D'Artagnan.  Whatever your heart desires... D'Artagnan knows what he wants. But he is tongue-tied, unable to ask for it. Athos asks for him. 
 Majesty, his heart has only one desire. To become a Musketeer. D'Artagnan looks at Athos, thankful for the intercession. Louis answers with pleasure. 
 Then kneel, d'Artagnan. D'Artagnan drops to his knees. Louis lays the blade of his sword on each of his shoulders. 
 The world is an uncertain realm, filled with danger. Truth despoiled by broken promises. Honor undermined by the pursuit of gold. Freedom sacrificed when the weak are oppressed by the strong. But there are those who oppose these powerful forces. Those who dedicate their lives to truth, honor, and freedom. They are a constant reminder to all of us. That such a life is not just possible, but necessary to our continued survival. As a country, as a King. These men are known as the Musketeers... (CONTINUED) 
 Rise, d'Artagnan. And join them. Musketeer. 
 Do my eyes deceive me? 
 I find it hard to believe myself. 
 His lips, unused as they are to such a contortion, twisted and stretched... into a smile. 
 It was spectacular. And what teeth. 
 D'ARTAGNAN I know this is a stupid question. But what exactly does a Musketeer do? 
 Truth... honor... 
 (helpfully suggests a third) And freedom. (CONTINUED) 
 Weren't you listening? 
 D'ARTAGNAN All for one... 
 
