 
 MAX'S VOICE C I don't believe in heaven, but I have this idea about it. Something I heard in a song. 
 MAX'S VOICE Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens. 
 MAX'S VOICE There's an army of bodies under this river. Criminals, people who ran out of time, out of friends. 
 MAX'S VOICE The next time they drag this river, they'll find me on the bottom with the rest of them. And there won't be anybody left to say I was different. 
 
 MAX'S VOICE I could feel the dead down there, just below my feet. Reaching up to welcome me as one of their own. 
 MAX'S VOICE It was an easy mistake to make. 
 
 #1 Hey, that's a really nice watch. 
 #1 (drooling over the watch) Kinda reminds me of one I lost-- 
 You didn't lose it. You pawned it up on 128th a few hours ago. 
 (nodding to Man #2) Ask Doug. He was there with you. 
 You've been following us all night? 
 No. (pointing) I'm only following you. 
 You a cop, or something? 
 Not tonight. 
 Too bad. (to Doug) Go get my watch. 
 (craving, eyes closed) Watch over me, watch over me... 
 Open your eyes, now. 
 Have you ever seen her before? 
 You got busted robbing a house in New Jersey with William Preston three-- 
 Bill's dead. 
 That's why I'm talking to you. (moving the photo closer) Did he ever say anything about this woman? Did you ever hear anyone-- 
 Bill died because their wings couldn't lift him up. 
 No, he got shot robbing a liquor store. What are you talking about? 
 (incoherent, rambling) Their wings are golden, the feathers only look black... 
 
 
 SGT. ADAMS You my new guy? 
 I didn't think anybody was here. 
 SGT. ADAMS Everybody's usually a little late. 
 
 SGT. ADAMS All the cold investigations in the city are collected and delivered over to us. We call each witness to see if they can add anything to their original statement. 
 And if they can? 
 SGT. ADAMS We send the file back to the original precinct for follow-up. Don't get your hopes up, though. 
 SGT. ADAMS Once you've gone through the file and come up empty, bring it here... 
 SGT. ADAMS Max here handles our filing. Once it hits his desk, a case is officially dead. 
 SGT. ADAMS Nope, we don't do that down here. 
 I don't understand, then how-- 
 SGT. ADAMS How do you solve that unsolvable murder mystery and redeem yourself? 
 The grand jury couldn't find-- 
 SGT. ADAMS Stop. Trust me, there's a tragic story behind why I'm here giving you this tour. We all did something, so just save it. (moving for the door) Follow me to the break room... 
 We should get a beer after work, or something... 
 Yeah.   Maybe so. 
 
 So what did he do? 
 SGT. ADAMS (sharply) Nothing. 
 SGT. ADAMS R emember when you were a kid, and you'd hold your breath when you went past a graveyard? 
 SGT. ADAMS ust...try to leave him alone. 
 MAX'S OFFICE 
 
 
 
 (O.S.) You can't come here anymore. 
 William Preston was a dead end. 
 You can't come here, I said. I'm done helping you. I've already... (lowering his voice) ...paid my debt to society, you know? I've cooperated enough. 
 We need to talk.   Won't take long. 
 I thought you found Bill's partner. 
 I did, but Doug only wanted to talk about pigeons, or something. I need a new name, someone robbing houses to feed a habit around that same time. T 
 Three years is a lifetime for guys like that. One way or the other, they're probably all gone now. (a little self-satisfied) Either way, I'm not the one to ask anymore. I cater to a better class, now. 
 I can see that. 
 This is a party. These are my friends. You remember friends? 
 I need another name, or I start frisking your friends. 
 don't have one to give you, Max. Look, you've gone through all your living leads, now you're running out of dead ones... (beat) I don't think this guy's out there. 
 ry sleeping at night every now and then, you'd see that for yourself. 
 I'd invite you in, but... 
 hanks. 
 ou decided to stay for a while. 
 ow it's your turn to say something... 
 That's interesting. 
 Thank you. It's... (glancing past Max) Shit. 
 Why don't you let go-- 
 (in perfect English) Mind your business. 
 My sister. (beat) Sort of a bitch. 
 You have to go. Now. 
 (pulling free) Fine. I just want to ask her something first... 
 
 
 Looking for me? 
 Were you in there? 
 (shrugging, coy) Take me somewhere, I'll tell you. 
 You just move in? 
 hree years ago. So we're somewhere, now: who was that guy-- 
 
 
 (frustrated sigh) Fine. What was her name? 
 Who? 
 The girl from the boring story you want tell me. The one that ends with you living here. Very sad. 
 tell you what... (beat, evil smile) Call me by her name. 
 (startled) What? 
 That way you can make love to her again, just like she never left you. (shrill, mocking voice) Oh, Max, I miss you... 
 You should go. 
 Excuse me? 
 (exhausted, to himself) There's nothing you can tell me. 
 ou're kicking me out of your bed? 
 Yeah. 
 (on phone) Owen, pick up if you're awake... 
 
 ot yet!   Please, just let me... 
 
 You're not serious, are you? 
 What's this? 
 I need you to look at something. 
 What happened to them? 
 Her.     Just one. 
 omebody found her leg near the sidewalk, called it in a few hours later. We found the other one in the dumpster over there. 
 #1 (O.S.) I don't believe it. 
 (ignoring) What do we know? 
 #1 Only that it didn't happen here. Beyond that, I don't even know how to describe it in my report. `Disassembled,' that's the word we came up with. 
 Why are you showing me this? 
 We found it here, by her heart. 
 As far as we know, the victim-- 
 (quiet) Natasha. 
 (remembering) They couldn't lift him up... 
 What did you just say? 
 We need to talk, Max. Tonight. (writing something) Here's my address... 
 For God's sake, I know where you-- 
 (somber) No, I moved out. 
 Alex?   Are you in here? 
 
 
 Alex! 
 (O.C.) The E.R. doctor's old man was a patrolman in the 45th. I got him to get you a private room. 
 our contact information was... pretty out of date, you know, but one of the dispatchers remembered me and your dad riding together back in the day. 
 Alex. 
 he first unit to respond must've scared them away before they could do the same thing to you. Pretty remarkable, considering your luck. 
 He was trying to tell me something. 
 No.   I get Bflashes, but it's...wrong. 
 You tell them where to find me. 
 No need.   The funeral starts in an hour. 
 ust slow down.   You need to-- 
 What I need is to borrow some dress blues. Can you help me out? 
 (reluctant) Yeah. My office is on the way. 
 You quit working for Aesir? 
 (impatient) It's a bullet hole. 
 Yeah, from a musket ball. The British used this place as a military prison during the Revolutionary War. Think about that. It's older than St. Paul's. M ax looks up at the crumbling gargoyles perched above. 
 W hen the weather isn't so shitty, the view is unbelievable. (going to the closet) I'm not making any guarantees that any of this will fit. 
 I saved one of those for you. (off Max's confusion) Third page from the back. 
 hey're going to set up some kind of scholarship in her name. 
 hey kept coming to me for suggestions over what she might want. I guess since we go back so far, maybe they think I'm ( family. Nobody knew how to find you... beat) I said art. She liked art, right? 
 t's a nice thing, a scholarship.   Good way to remember somebody. 
 You still haven't been out there, have you? 
 
 (gently pushing) It's a nice spot. I'll go up there with you after, if you want... 
 (O.C.) Let him through. 
 Christa, I'm really sorry about what-- 
 Don't talk to me like some stranger. 
 Who did this to him, Max? 
 We don't have a lot, yet... 
 (seething) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now? M ax could melt under those eyes, but Christa turns her back and continues up the path to Alex's waiting coffin. 
 Detective Payne? 
 .A.   I need you to come with me. 
 ow? 
 Now. 
 
 (sad, to the priest) Okay. 
 ow'd the girl have your wallet? 
 She stole it. 
 Like...picked your pocket? 
 So you didn't know she was a prostitute? 
 No, I didn't.    We met through a friend. 
 Trevor Duncan. He's your friend? 
 I guess. 
 That's classy. You know what Trevor does for a living, I assume? 
 He used to snitch for me. 
 T ell me, Max, what's a glorified file clerk still need a snitch for? 
 see.   So you'd piss in a cup for us, right? 
 (standing) I think you just said the magic words. Call once you hear from the union lawyer. 
 ou and Detective Hillman haven't worked together since your reassignment. What made you get back in touch? 
 He wanted me to help him with something. 
 (making a note) And? 
 That's what I'm going to do. 
 ook at this from my perspective: I've got two bodies in ten body bags. You M were the last person to see either one... 
 (pointing to the photos) And some of that blood is mine.     Good luck with your case. 
 Nice work, detective. 
 You've been around long enough to know I'm his only way out. 
 
 Well, I hope that felt good. 
 FLOOR, NARCOTICS....' 
 It makes you look guilty. You understand that, right? Now it's not just Alex's unit that thinks you're the guy... 
 You need friends on the force right now. There's only so much I can do outside... 
 Where are you going? 
 
 #1 (shouting) Hey! 
 #2 God damn it, that means you need a-- M ax gives the knob a final twist, and the door swings open. 
 (to himself) There wasn't ever a key. 
 ALEX'S OFFICE 
 (O.C.) What are you doing in there? 
 
 ALEX'S OFFICE 
 
 Lose your dog? 
 We need to talk about my sister. 
 hoever killed your sister did the same thing to my partner-- (louder) It was the same person. 
 Yeah.   You. 
 slurred) So stupid... 
 You left your wallet lying beside her body. Who's stupid? M ax slumps to the side, spitting out a stream of blood... 
 Does that sound like something a Homicide cop would get wrong? 
 You know somebody named Owen? 
 Owen Green? 
 Natasha called him on her way out of my apartment. Give me one day to-- 
 No.   Now. 
 Who is this guy? 
 Somebody my sister used to hang around with. Nice kid. (MORE) 
 MONA(CONT'D) (chambering a round) You better hope he backs your story up. 
 I have things I need to ask him, myself. 
 (calling through the door) Owen, open up. 
 Open-- 
 (calling out) Owen? 
 
 (breathless, to no one) Help me. 
 Owen? 
 Owen, wait... 
 (screaming) Make them stop, tell them I can't fly... 
 (shaken) What did we just see? 
 You're sure this is the place? 
 Natasha had all her work done here. 
 Something I can help you with? 
 What if I wanted this tattoo? 
 Then you're probably in the Marine Corps. 
 (pointing to the wings) This one. 
 What is it? 
 (intimidated) It's a Norse superstition. The Vikings used to wear them for protection. 
 Trust me, my sister had all the guardian angels she needed. 
 Not angels. Valkyries. T he Artist goes to a shelf bulging with old books - his reference library. He searches through dusty volumes... 
 In Norse mythology, the only way you get to go to heaven is to die in violence. Die in your sleep, you go to hell. Valkyries fly over the battlefields, picking out the righteous dead. They reward the people who draw first blood. (beat) A soldier's angel. 
 I'm generally thrilled to have referral business, but I tell people looking for those wings to find ink closer to home. 
 Where's home? 
 Some club down in Alphabet City. 
 Protection from what? 
 (gurgling, to Max) They see you...they see you... 
 Do you know this guy? 
 (without conviction) Maybe it isn't anything new.   People get strung out, act crazy... 
 You think they were both on something? 
 Crystal meth, maybe, some amphetamine that raises your body temperature in an overdose. Explains why they were both sweating like that, trying to cool off. (beat) Of course, a junky won't usually jump out the window if there's someone left in the room to beg or rob. 
 You were standing right beside me. 
 And? 
 Jumped is not the word I'd use. 
 They all look... 
 Like Owen. 
 This isn't anything I've seen before. 
 ONA (CONT'D) You ever been to Rome? 
 MONA (CONT'D) Better cities than this one have fallen. (pointing to the curb) This is far enough. 
 MONA (CONT'D) Sorry about the chain. 
 (nauseous, to himself) No... 
 
 It was sitting at this very table that your father told me I needed to retire. (beat) For about a minute, I just sat here thinking about knocking him out of his chair. The job was everything to me, to the point that I couldn't see the writing on the wall - what it was doing to my marriage, my health. Your old man knew if I was going to listen to reason, it B            could only happen in here. 
 There's nothing you can't say in here. It's like hallowed ground. 
 I watched a guy throw himself out of a window tonight. The things he was saying- 
 Any guy who throws himself out a window, I wouldn't pay any attention to the things he said. 
 The problem is, I knew what he was talking about. 
 I haven't been really afraid of anything since...that night. 
 And you are now? 
 There's something going on, and I can't find a rational explanation for it. (MORE) 
 MAX(CONT'D) There's...something out there, hurting people-- 
 Okay, calm down. 
 It's real.     I'm not crazy. 
 Then stop acting like it. Max, you're breaking into offices, I.A. is all over you, you won't even show up for work... 
 The night Alex died, there was something else in the room with us. I saw it. 
 It's the same thing these people are seeing right before they die. (beat, pained) I think Michelle saw it, too. 
 For God's sake, don't drag her into this. 
 What's really going on here? 
 Alex found something out about what happened to her. Something new. 
 He was trying, right before he died... 
 Listen, okay? Why don't you come back with me, let Beth make up the guest room for you. Just for tonight. 
 You need to take some time. Get some sleep, heal up. See if it still feels real after that... 
 It's real. 
 (via intercom) You riding? 
 via intercom) If you're coming, you better come on. Way it's looking, might be the last train tonight. 
 In or out, asshole. 
 VINNIE (CONT'D) So? 
 We need to talk. (beat) Talk. 
 Shut the door, then. You Ruskies may be used to it, but I'm freezing my dick off over here. 
 
 Okay.     So talk. 
 Something was taken from me. It involves a club in Italian territory, so I need your blessing to go make it right. V 
 You're asking my permission? smirking to his men) Well in that case, sweetheart... 
 I said `blessing.' 
 Oh. Well, blessing might cost extra. Which club are we talking about? 
 Ragna Rok. 
 MONA (CONT'D) Over on Avenue-- 
 Yeah, I know. (beat, rattled) Sure, fine. You have my permission...blessing, whatever. 
 You do still control that block, right? It's south of-- 
 The guy's name is Jack Lupino. 
 Well, that sounds Italian to me. 
 He's no kind of Italian I've ever seen. Tattooed freak, a real sicko from what we hear. 
 (sneering) You're afraid of tattoos, now? 
 When the club first opened, I sent somebody down to collect the...you know, fire insurance. A day goes by, and I don't see him. Then I get two boxes delivered to me. One box's got my guy's hands and ears in it. The other box has a quarter of a million dollars in cash. 
 This neighborhood has been your family's forever. Two-fifty large is all it takes to-- 
 What got my attention, Mona, was that the boxes were delivered by a cop car. A guy in uniform hands them to me in broad daylight. (beat) I'm not scared of tattoos, or freaks, or mouthy Russian bitches. But whoever's watching over Lupino, whoever it is you really need to bless you walking inside Ragna Rok...him, I am scared of. 
 
 (V.O.) She was thirty-five. The daughter, two months. From what we could tell, it started out as a robbery. 
 (V.O.) oth of the men had records, mostly bullshit - possession, petty theft. 
 (V.O.) ut that day...I don't know. They had something else on their minds. 
 (V.O.) ax was maybe ten minutes late. 
 
 
 (calling out) Michelle! 
 (calling out) Michelle? 
 shouting to the door) Michelle, I'm right here... 
 It's okay.     They're angels, now. 
 (calling, frantic) Michelle! 
 BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
 Michelle... 
: 
 (V.O.) We looked everywhere for the third guy, but there was nothing to go on. Not a hair of him left behind. 
 I'm listening. 
 (emotional) This isn't just some job stress freak- out. This is a man who lost everything, and who deserves a little understanding from the rest of us. If you'd known him before... (beat, pained) You'd want to believe him, too. 
 Believe him about what? 
 Are you saying you think Max did have something to do with Alex's murder? 
 Absolutely not. Alex was his partner, they were like brothers...he couldn't have. There's no way. 
 Then what are we talking about? 
 Look, Max is like a son to me. Don't put me in a position to have to hang him. (beat, pained) But you should hear the kinds of things he's saying...hallucinations, none of it makes any sense to me. I'm worried he's going to get into another situation before I can convince him to come in. B 
 Are you telling me he was-- 
 I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt. 
 Is there anything we can do to help you bring him in? Unofficially, of course... 
 Bringing him in won't be a problem. Where I need your help will be his-- 
 A New Jersey unit ID'd him near his old house. It shouldn't be long. 
 You have to find him first, protect him. Some of the guys from Alex's unit beat you to him, they won't wait for a trial. 
 (to himself) Okay, Chelle. Help me, here... 
.' 
 (O.S.) Stay where you are! 
 (turning slowly) Relax, I'm a cop. 
 Don't move! I know who you are. 
 Just relax. I need you to trust me for a minute... 
 Yeah? Is that what you said to your partner? 
 You don't understand. 
 (gesturing with the gun) Lay down on your face. 
 (bending down) Okay, just take it easy. 
 Word's gotten around about the sick shit you did to him, too. If I were you, I'd get ready for sort of a long ride back into the city... 
 We have a problem. 
 (to himself) Subjects? 
 (shouting over) Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. The storm's caused a power failure, but it's absolutely nothing to worry about. We'll be up and running again before long. 
 (recognizing) Get out of the train. 
 (shouting) Get out-- 
 
 (terrified) Max? What are you doing? 
 Those grunts who went crazy in Iraq? 
 Go a little further, read what they did to the bodies. It's the same as what happened to Alex and that girl. 
 Michelle. 
 It's all in her notes: people describing fevers, hallucinations...their lymph nodes swell until their necks bruise like something's been choking them. (pointing to the drawings) The angels they all talk about? Michelle talks about eye spasms that make things seem to flutter. Mixed with the other delusions, that starts looking like wings... (beat) She wasn't seeing them. She was trying to figure out why other people were. B B thought she was working on allergy medicines. 
 Somebody at Aesir knows what-- 
 (thunderstruck) Oh, my God. 
 It's me.    I killed Alex. 
 What are you talking about? 
 He came to me about six months ago, asking about one of the executives at Aesir. At the time I had no reason to connect it to Michelle, I just thought... (beat, torn up) I tried to warn him, this guy has connections to some scary people-- 
 Who?   What's his name? 
 Jason Colvin. He used to be the head of the pharmaceutical division, but he's moved up over the last few years. (beat) I guess Michelle probably reported directly to him... 
 ou've got copies of this stuff, right? 
 e careful, Max. 
 Looks like ten bodies, give or take. Even in New York, that ought to be enough to earn Payne the spike. 
 The blast point is outside the train. 
 ased on the spread of the wreckage... they moving very fast, either. 
 He forced them to stop, first. 
 So he had the bomb with him inside, but he decided to walk outside to detonate it? 
 Are you asking if that seems like odd behavior from a guy who cut his partner's head off? 
 You wanted to see me? 
 Careful what you say to him, if you ever want to make detective... 
 (to Bravura, guarded) I already filled out a report. 
 Show me where it happened, then. E XT. STORAGE FACILITY - MORNING 
 He jumped out and wrapped that cord around me, and before I had a chance... 
 (pointing) He was coming out of here? 
 Hey, real cops are working here... 
 (to a CSI tech) Where's the stuff you guys moved? 
 Nothing's been moved. 
 What, you playing detective now? 
 (studying the photo) This is his wife? 
 spent four hours up at Homicide going through Alex's desk and cataloging pictures of this woman, and not one of you bastards bothered to mention that she was Max Payne's wife? 
 (shrugging) If Alex was getting a little something on the side-- 
 Who are you protecting? 
 Nobody, we just...why would anybody talk to IA without a reason? 
 (livid) You've got a reason, now. Tell me everything you know about this woman, starting with her name. 
 
 You should go on home, already.   There's nothing going on today... 
 Well, there's someone in your office... 
 COLVIN'S OFFICE 
 (pointing to a photo) This your daughter? 
 Yes, it is. Three years old. 
 Is there something I can help you with, detective? 
 You can tell me about Project Valhalla. 
 (nervous laugh) I think you might have the wrong... 
 eed to make a call? 
 Maybe I'd better. 
 Yes, there's a detective here... to Max) What did you say your name was? M 
 Max. 
 (low) She was my wife. 
 (stunned) Excuse me? 
 Michelle Payne was my wife. 
 What-- 
 Before you say anything else, I want you to know who I am. 
 Please, wait... 
 (flashing his badge) I need to talk to somebody about a woman who used to work here. 
 COLVIN'S OFFICE 
 (weakly, eyeing the lamp) Please don't hit me again. 
 A week ago, I thought the universe had turned against me. Everything I loved was gone, and for some reason I'd been left here to suffer alone. 
 ut it wasn't the universe that took my family away from me. 
 It was you. 
 Tell me about Valhalla. 
 There is no-- 
 Tell me. 
 There's no Project Valhalla anymore.   I shut it down years ago. 
 (reluctant) It was a disaster. The drug was so addictive, the damage it did to the mind was so devastating that we lost our government funding. By the end, we couldn't even guarantee the safety of our scientists administering the experiment. Test subjects would follow them home and kill them for an extra dose. M 
 Is that what happened to Michelle? 
 Nobody knows what happened to her. 
 terrified) People thought Michelle might be a whistle-blower. That she wasn't loyal enough to Aesir, and she might go public about the program. 
 
 Authorized personnel only. 
 Don't look at him.    Move aside. (louder) I 'm authorized. 
 OLVIN'S OFFICE 
 Why are you asking me about this? 
 I already told you.    Be quiet, now. 
 But why today? It's over, I got rid of everything before they moved me out of the division-- 
 Then you haven't been Downtown lately, because you missed a spot. 
 Are you telling me that there are people out there taking the drug again? urgent) How many of them? 
 I knew it, I knew something was going on. I told her the numbers were too good-- 
 (O.C.) (calling through the door) Mr. Colvin, are you okay in there? Security's on its way... 
 They're not coming for you. 
 What are you talking about? 
 You only know my name because somebody high up decided to cut me loose. (gesturing) There's a safe in the wall. It's open. 
 Show that to whoever will watch. If this thing spreads, nothing will keep the rest of you safe. 
 (terrified) Wait, I'm not ready... 
 
 Back up, all of you.   Make a path. 
 calling to the guards) Stay back, or I'll-- 
 
 This is Jim Bravura, IA. You need to tell the units responding to the Aesir call to come equipped for automatic-- (frowning) The Aesir building, nobody's called anything in yet? (beat) Hell yes, I'd like to report something. We've got machine gun fire in Midtown. 
 
 
 (shouting) Put your hands up! 
 (more human) You need to come in now, before anything else gets pinned on you. 
 She was trying to stop it. 
 Stop what?     Tell me what's happening-- 
 NYPD!   Hold your fire! 
 (screaming) Hold your fire! 
 (pointing to the TV) You need to see this. 
 (V.O.) From the beginning of time, great generals have all wrestled with one undeniable truth - morale wins battles. 
 ANNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D) Fear, fatigue, loss of focus...the future of combat medicine lies in the mind of the soldier. 
 NNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D) Thanks to breakthroughs made by Aesir Pharmaceuticals, the military of tomorrow will be able of unlock the limitless potential inside every soldier. 
 H         (V.O.) ow has my experience in combat changed since being selected for Project Valhalla? (beat, smiling) I'm never scared, for starters. 
 That's the guy. 
 What are you talking about? 
 He's the one behind Ragna Rok. It's his club where the drug's being sold. 
 (V.O.) You face down a group of insurgents and instead of fear, you're filled with...peace, I guess. (MORE) 
 (2)      LUPINO(CONT'D) Like you're aware of the power you have in your own hands to make the world a better place. 
 So what do we do now? 
 What are you doing? (beat, louder) Uncuff me. (beat, louder still) Hey! 
 W         hat is this? You think just because he killed your partner, you can decide whether I-- 
 He killed my wife. 
 I've been inside that club.   You don't have a chance on your own. (realizing) But you don't care. 
 You don't want my help, because you think if he puts you out of your misery, you'll get to see her again. 
 I hope that's really the way it works. 
 
 #1 (on phone) All quiet, 4 a.m. 
 (chattering, to himself) Screw this... 
 
 #1 W ait here, Mr. Lupino. 
 I don't need protection.   I have my own. 
 
 
 an you hear them, now? 
 We'll see which one us they're flying for. We'll see who they love best. 
 Who is your contact at Aesir? 
 louder) Who sent you after Michelle? L 
 (with difficulty) You are so blessed. 
 ou don't know what I'm talking about, do you? 
 The angels are not done with you yet. 
 (in shock) 
? 
 What's going on here, BB? 
 Hey! 
 (draws pistol, re. Max) Now? 
 Not unless you feel like carrying him out of here. Max knows me, and I definitely don't know Mr. Lupino. 
 shouting) Look at me, BB.    At least face what you're doing... 
 row up. 
 She had no right to put me in that situation. Asking me to pass up this kind of an opportunity to help her rat out my bosses...I'm sorry, but that's unreasonable. 
 But then again, who could blame her for getting confused, being married to such a righteous man. So maybe it is your fault, after all. (beat) Just like your old man. Always knew you were better than everyone else-- 
 No.   Just better than you. 
 For what it's worth, he didn't know Michelle was going to die. 
 He thought they were going out there to scare her, destroy her research. 
 I'd arranged with the other guys to finish the job. 
 (V.O.) He locked them out of the bedroom, tried CPR...boy scout shit. 
 (smiling) And as thanks, you nearly blew his head off while he crawled out the window. 
 BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 
 (V.O.) That's funny, to me. 
 You really didn't know? 
 INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS 
 (soft) You should have killed me then, when you had a chance. 
 I learned something from your father, years ago. Always give people a choice. 
 He gave me the choice between early retirement or facing the charges he was going to bring against me. He sat me down in that bar and explained that I could either give up the thing I loved, or I could have it taken away by force. That (was my choice. beat) (MORE) 
 BB(CONT'D) You could have put a gun in your mouth any time you wanted. Or, you could have kept living in the hell I made for you. That's your choice. 
 Just out of curiosity, though: why don't I have a chance now? 
 Because now I know it's you. 
 Well, you're-- 
 Okay, enough. This is far enough. 
 
... 
 've got something better. 
 (to Salle, taking Max) Grab me some of that rope. 
 It's not like we didn't see it coming. 
 Sullen, withdrawn...Max just never seemed the same after the tragedy. 
 It's a good thing his father didn't live to see it, though. Bill Payne's only son, a strung-out suicide. 
 smiling) It would have eaten him alive. 
 Bravura's not going to buy it. 
 Sure? Not even once the autopsy turns up traces in your blood? 
 dosed you that night at Alex's, just to make sure things were fuzzy. Compliments of the house. 
 oe, why don't you calm down... 
 
 It's fine, as cold as that water is... (beat) Just in case, though. Make sure. 
 How? 
 
 Are you home? 
 (into radio) You know how blind I am, I'm not crashing into the dock again. When the power-- 
 ang on a second. 
 to himself) Jumpers. 
 oly shit... (to the engine room) Somebody get out here! 
 It's too late. He's frozen solid. 
 (calling to the pier) Somebody get some blankets. 
 all the cops, he's bleeding everywhere. 
 on't move. We've got help coming. 
 What is that? What's he... 
 Great, a junkie bleeding on my boat. 
 What do you mean, he's a block of ice... 
 Maybe it's a fever already. 
 Let him go, then. 
 Okay.   Again, from the beginning. 
 
 U         nder what authority are you interrogating these men? 
 An investigation into departmental corruption. They're material witnesses-- 
 Just between you and me, I wouldn't count on these men being any kind of witnesses at all. I served with a few of them, and remember what kind of officers they were. 
 What kind would that be? 
 Cops.   Real cops. 
 o offense. 
 None taken. (to the lead agent) Agent Taliente, I'd like you to meet a real cop. 
 (on phone) Let me talk to BB. 
 What's going on downtown? 
 Bravura called in the Feds. 
 or God's sake, come on. Max is dead, they've got nothing else. 
 
 He's not dead. He's here. 
 Bullshit.    There's no way-- 
 
 Who are you calling? 
 Her. 
 (even) This isn't a number you use. 
 need you to send a helicopter to my building. NThe storm's breaking... 
 here was a shoot-out in my building yesterday, twenty floors from where I'm sitting. A secretary was killed. 
 I understand an executive named Jason Colvin was also among the dead. Senseless tragedies, all. 
 Everything's fine, we're just-- 
 This was more than you were ready for. 
 What is that supposed to mean? 
 Perhaps our partnership has run its course. 
 Think pretty hard about that. I'm about to be surrounded by Federal agents-- 
 (shadenfreude) Good heavens, BB. Best of luck. 
 Who needs luck? They're going to love the stories I can tell. 
 Careful. 
 (losing it) Send the helicopter, then. 
 It's on its away. 
 Take everybody and get downstairs.    I want no less than his head. 
 
 
 Take some C4, wire it so he can't make it to the roof. I'll wait on the chopper. 
 (smiling) You know I won't leave without you. 
 
 
 
 
 MAX'S HALLUCINATION 
 MAX'S HALLUCINATION 
 
 Max! 
 AX'S HALLUCINATION 
 
 You don't have much time. 
 I'll do what I can to slow them down, but you have to hurry. 
 You're not done yet. 
 (on phone) The weather's broken, your pilot is going to have no problem landing. 
 Where's the detonator? 
 There's more like this all over. Even if the building doesn't collapse, this floor is gone. (beat) Careful with that thing, is what I'm saying. I'm sure you and I can work something out. 
 Drop your weapon! 
 BB'S OFFICE 
 
 (to the Guards) Hurry, Max's already upstairs. (to Mona, frustrated) Just hand it over. 
 B's done for, but this thing doesn't have to stop. I'm his number two, and somebody has to take over for Lupino. Like I said, we can work something out. 
 frowning, confused) Give me one reason we can't do business. 
 Try to take Payne alive, if there's anything left. 
 It's unbelievable. All that snow, and... Watch it end up being a beautiful day. 
 You want my confession, first?   You came all this way for it... 
 (mock penitent) Forgive me, Max, for I have sinned. I should have bet more on you, and less on that helicopter. 
 Just get to it, already. That's all I ask. You've earned it, so just... 
 But I want you to listen to me, first. Just try to hear what-- 
 MAX'S VOICE I don't believe in heaven. 
 MAX'S VOICE 
