 
 V/O ... nobody on, two and two to Saenz - who has just three at bats in the series, and none of them hits - as he settles back in 
 V/O - Rivera looks in for the sign, he has it, the pitch, Saenz swings and - 
 V/O - a ground out to second, Thom, is not what the A's were looking for from Saenz - down by two in the ninth - 
 V/O Eric Byrnes has emerged from the dugout to bat for Menechino - 
 V/O - the A's are down to their last strike and this Yankee crowd is on its feet - Rivera squints for the sign, he has it, delivers and - Again, at the crucial moment, he cuts the radio. Waits just a few moments. Turns the radio back on - 
 V/O It is bedlam in New York. The Yankees - down two games to none - have come back to win three, and the Division Series. 
 V/O This is an exceptional feat not only for New York, Thom, but for Oakland - though not the kind you can be proud of: Only once before has a team lost a Division Series after winning the first two games - 
 No, it's okay, I don't need to watch it. 
 She's good, thanks. 
 They're good. Everybody's good. 
 Night, Billy. It was a great season. 
 V/O They had three times your payroll, Billy. 
 V/O You're not watching them celebrate, right? Car's off. Billy sits in the dark on his phone. 
 V/O Pointless? Self-destructive? Masochistic? 
 V/O What you should be doing is thinking about what an amazing job you did and how great you are. 
 V/O You take a team with that payroll to the playoffs? You take the Yankees to a fifth game? I'm not even sure the better team won. 
 V/O --while embarrassing the entire city and making a mockery of their fans. I'm sick of this. 
 V/O Let's go away. 
 V/O Someplace they don't have a baseball team. 
 V/O Okay, here are the rules for tonight. You can do anything you want but you can't give any quotes to the press, go on the internet or hurt my car, we have a deal? 
 V/O They had three times your payroll, Billy. From the radio we've been hearing shards of "--an unprecedented choke--", "--get rid of Billy Beane--", "-- Billy Beane knows nothing about baseball--". 
 V/O How about Hawaii? I'll make a reservation someplace. The place with the turtles. 
 V/O I mean -- what does it matter since whatever it is you can't afford it. 
 V/O I don't? 
 You need to hurry. 
 She said we had to hurry up. 
 V/O They offered seven and a quarter. 
 V/O Yes. 
 V/O No, they offered seven and a quarter and I'm thinking about it. (nothing from Billy) And you're thinking -- what. 
 We're losing Damon? 
 V/O For seven and a half, Billy, you can keep Johnny Damon and we can be done thinking. I have to go, my plane is boarding. 
 1 Is that phone still on? 
 1 Faradie. Can his phone be on? 
 2 Sir, you need to turn your phone off. 
 V/O Seven point five. 
 V/O Talk to Steve. 
 Try to relax. 
 Try. Try to relax. 
 V/O Hello? 
 Wait, we're losing Giambi, too? 
 V/O I can't talk about that now. I can't talk about anything now. 
 V/O We can't talk now. I'm at a family thing. I'll call you Monday. 
 V/O I'm talking to everybody. But not today. I'm not in today. I'm hanging up. 
 (OFF PHONE) He hung up. 
 You found Giambi. Billy dials another number -- 
 A thousand dollars says you don't get on the plane. 
 V/O Arn Tellem's office. 
 V/O 
 V/O Flowers? 
 Flowers? 
 V/O To who? 
 V/O You want to send him flowers? 
 
 V/O Beth Israel Temple, Beverly Hills. 
 The airport is as close as you got. 
 (INTO PHONE) Thank you, Tara. 
 V/O Denise. 
 I'm Tara. 
 
 It's gonna be more than one day. 
 (PAUSE) We're losing Isringhausen too? 
 It's like the bell rang but you're still getting hit in the head. (hands him tickets) Just in case. 
 I'm picking up a guy at the breakfast buffet. 
 What? 
 -- 
 
 This is my nephew's Bar Mitzvah. 
 Thank you. 
 He's not staying in Oakland, Billy. 
 It's New York; you've got to give a player a reason not to play there. 
 17 million. 
 Yeah. 
 I know, I know... 
 17 a year for seven years. 
 Hundred and nineteen. 
 (BEAT) You gotta get Steve to let you spend some money. 
 Steve doesn't get it. This isn't a charity raffle. 
 And you're losing Isringhausen, too. 
 I've gotta get back. 
 Thank you. Good luck. 
 Are you Billy Beane? 
 That was a pretty serious choke. 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah. 
 Isringhausen's gone, too, don't you think? 
 So negotiate with them. 
 So offer them a little more. 
 Like what. What'll it cost - say - to keep Giambi? 
 17 for how many (years) - 
 For one year? Billy nods. Steve smiles. And Billy knows what it means. It means, That makes it easy - there's nothing more to discuss on the matter. 
 I have confidence you'll find a way to make it work without them. 
 Sure you can. 
 - 
 Billy. What are we? The Taj Mahal? We're a small-market team. Obviously, we can't afford Giambi at such a (price) - 
) I need more money, Steve. 
 Billy... 
 We just won 102 games with a forty million dollar payroll. 
 
 You're not a professional athlete! 
 (BEAT) You're a professional GM. 
 SCHOTT (CONT'D) We're a small market team. You're a small market GM. And I'm asking you to be okay with not spending money I don't have. And I'm asking you to take a breath and shake off the loss. And then I'm asking you to get back in a room with your people and figure out how you're going to replace these guys with the money I do have. 
 (BEAT) Got it? SCHOTT can go from milquetoast to ruthless in a blink and he just did. 
 V/O What was that beep? 
 V/O That's great. I'll get right back to 
 V/O Billy - I have to talk to Johnny - obviously. It's my fiduciary (duty) - 
 V/O No, it's mine - 
 (V.O.) Take your time, do your thing. There are a lot of cute guys here. 
 (V.O.) No, the airline sent it to Prague. 
 (PAUSE) Why? 
 (V.O.) Well, we left out of Oakland, honey... and I think the baggage handlers knew it was yours. 
 (V.O.) Wish you weren't insane. Miss you. She hangs up. Billy hangs up and switches to his cell -- 
 (V.O.) Billy. Scott. I just got off the phone with Dan. 
 (V.O.) Yeah, I was surprised he even called me. Because he had said -- 
 (V.O.) Boston just upped it to seven-seven-five. 
 (V.O.) You there? 
 (V.O.) We have a deal. If it's eight million. 
 (V.O.) I'm just doing my job for my client. That's all I'm doing. 
 Alright, guys... we had a great year. We won 102 games and we only came a buck short in New York. Now the bad news... we've got three big holes to fill. 
 I like Geronimo. (approval from the 
) Guy's an athlete. This guy is big, fast and talented. 
 Six foot four. 
 Top of my list. 
 Clean cut, good face. 
 Good jaw. He's the real deal. 
 Five tools, good lookin'. 
 He's a tools guy. 
 He's got a great swing. Natural swing. 
 He can hit. 
 The ball explodes off his bat. 
 It's exciting. When he hits it sounds like he's droppin' a firecracker at his feet. 
 Down in the pisser you can hear that sound. 
 Sounds like Mays, Mantle, Aaron... 
 He's a good hitter. 
 He needs a little work. He'll be able to hit. He could be a great hitter. 
 Artie, who do we like? 
 I like Perez. He swings like a man. 
 He swings like a man who swings at too much. 
 There's some work needs to be done. I admit it. He needs to be reworked a little. But he's noticeable. 
 He's notable? 
 No, he's noticeable. You notice him. 
 He's got an ugly girlfriend. 
 What's that mean? 
 Ugly girlfriend means no confidence. 
 Alright. That's true. 
 I agree with Art. I like the way he walks into a room. Kid's so confident his dick gets there two minutes before he does. 
 Passes the eye candy test. He's got the looks, he's ready to play the part. He just needs some playing time. 
 I'm just saying, his girlfriend's a 6. 
 Billy, if you want to talk about another Giambi, this guy could be it. Enough. Billy raises a book above the table, drops it with a dull THUD... STOPPING TRAFFIC. 
 Is that a suggestion, Billy? 
 We're trying to solve the problem. 
 We not only have a very clear understanding of the problem we now face, but everyone in this room has faced similar problems countless times before. 
 The problem is that we've lost 3 key players that we now have to replace. 
 The problem is the same as it always is; we've got to put a team together with what we've got. 
 We've got 38 home runs to replace, 120 rbi's, 47 doubles... 
 (BEAT) Is there? Everyone mumbles "no." 
 Look, we're gonna find 25 guys, put `em through player development, teach `em how to play Oakland A baseball. This is no time to push the panic button. This is the way we've been doing it for 150 years. Let us do our job. 
 That's fortune cookie wisdom. 
 Who's Fabio? 
 Okay, Billy. Clearly you have something on your mind. 
 You're not serious? 
 We're not playing fantasy baseball, Billy. 
 Those aren't new ideas, they disproved that years ago. 
 Bill James was a night security guard at the Stokely Van Camp Pork and Beans Factory. 
 He's not in baseball. He's in pork and beans. 
 (to the room) I think he just won the argument. 
 I don't have the first idea what you're saying. 
 With all due respect, we've been doing this for a long time. 
 Hold on -- You're going to Cleveland for a double-A guy? 
 Billy, I've seen Garcia. He's got a bad body. It's not a pretty sight. 
 Kid wears a large pair of underwear. 
 That is a big boy. 
 He's not just big, but kind of doughy. A fleshy kind of body. 
 SCOUTS (UNISON) He's no Babe Ruth. 
 When he walks, Billy, his thighs stick together. There's enough friction there to start a bonfire. 
 If you saw him, I'm telling you, you wouldn't want to go to Cleveland. 
 Billy, can I make a suggestion? If you could get Ricardo Rincon... he'd be worth the trip to Cleveland. 
 That would solve our left handed reliever problem. 
 SCOUTS (UNISON) Yeah. 
 SCOUTS (UNISON) Definitely. 
 What's a Fabergé egg? 
! 
 CRACK! CRACK! 
 This is the guy. 
 He's got a great path. I love the extension in his swing and the backspin he creates. 
 That's some amazing power right there, huh? 
 Good approach, great balance. How's he compare to the others around the country? 
 He's number one. Let's just hope he's still there when we pick. 
 This guy'll go in the first round. 
 Billy. I'm Sabatini, Area Scout, New York Mets. Can we get a couple minutes of your time, find out more about you? 
 I'd like to introduce you to Tom Martinez. 
 Very impressive performance today. In my job as the national cross-checker for the New York Mets, I see the top 200 players in the United States. It's been a while since I've seen a five tools guy, the complete package. Your throwing ability, your fielding skills... Ed told me you had power but I had no idea it was of the light tower variety. I hope you're as interested in professional baseball as we are in acquiring you in the upcoming draft. 
 Well, Billy, we're certainly looking forward to meeting your folks and talking to them as well. And we believe in college, but that's something you can do in the winter months. You need to know the sky's the limit with your ability. You could be a superstar before you've even graduated. But to get to that level, you need to work with our people. Pro-ball is where you need to be to develop the skills God gave you. 
 Mr. Beane? Mark's ready to see you now. 
. 
 So Billy, what are you looking for? 
 Try Giambi. 
 120 million. 
 Where's Steve in all this? 
 Bonds is available. 
 So what are you looking for? I want to help out. 
-- 
 
 Not going to happen. 
 Come on Billy, even if you could afford him we're not about to let him go. 
 We dished him to Detroit. Keep up. 
 What else you thinking Billy? 
 To replace Damon? 
 That's a tough one Billy. 
 The guys you might be able to afford? Hollins, Garcia... Coste. 
 To replace Damon?! 
 He had a back thing, some minor surgery, but he's okay. Petey? 
 He'll be good by Spring Training. 
 Mark Guthrie? 
 How much are you thinking? 
 Sorry about that. So... Garcia is going to be a no. What else are you thinking about? 
 Sorry Billy, who else you interested in? 
 Hi. 
 My name is Peter Brand. 
 I'm special assistant to Mark Shapiro. 
) Hey, mind your own business. 
 Mostly player evaluation right now. 
 Actually he rarely does. 
 I don't think he was really listening to me in there per se. 
 Yeah, I think he was listening to Bruce. 
 Peter Brand. 
 I'm not sure what you're asking me. 
 Huh? Oh Bruce? I told him I like Garcia. 
 (BEAT) Why? 
 
 (BEAT) Probably for the same reasons you do. 
 He's undervalued. You were smart to go after him. 
 (LONG BEAT) What makes him undervalued? 
 Maryland. 
 Yale. 
 Why? 
 Economics. 
 I love baseball. 
 I work for a different team. 
 Okay, truthfully, it might not be so easy to explain. 
 We might not see the game the same way. 
 You've spent your life in baseball and I don't have a very traditional view of the game. 
 Baseball thinking is medieval. It's stuck in the Dark Ages. I have a more scientific view of the game. 
 There is an epidemic failure within the game to understand what's really happening. And it leads people who run major league teams to misjudge their players and mismanage their teams. They're still asking the wrong questions. People who run baseball teams still think in terms of buying players. Sorry to say that. 
 The goal shouldn't be to buy players, what you want to buy is wins. To buy wins, you buy runs. You're trying to replace Johnny Damon. The Red Sox look at Johnny Damon and they see a star worth seven point five million a year. When I look at Johnny Damon, I see an imperfect understanding of where runs come from. 
 V/O His batting average is ignorable. What matters is his on base percentage- 
 V/O - which in 2001 was .324. That's 10 points lower than league average, and 17 points lower than Garcia's. 
 V/O True, he stole some bases. But attempted steals in general have to succeed 70% of the time before they even start to contribute to run totals. In 2001 he cost you runs. DAMON's tagged out at second. 
 He's got a good glove. He's a decent leadoff hitter. He steals bases. But he's not worth the seven point five million Boston is paying him. You're lucky to have him off your payroll, it opens all kinds of interesting possibilities. 
 Yes. These ideas and this approach to the game aren't all new. In fact, some of them have been around for two decades. 
 That's a much more difficult question than how to win baseball games. Once you begin to pull at that string, your understanding of the world might begin to unravel. 
 Billy? They're here. 
 Billy... Good to see you again. Obviously you're a very special player. We'd like to compliment you on your high school career, and we're looking forward to you being a part of the Mets family. Jongewaard sits at the kitchen table, speaking more to Billy's parents than Billy himself -- 
 There's good -- and there's premium. Your son is premium. He has it all -- power, speed, the arm. The Look -- and I'm never wrong about that. Which is why this is a premium number. He sets a contract on the table. Clipped to its top- sheet is a check. On its left-hand corner is the Mets insignia; on the right, the amount: $125,000. They all see it. A lot of money in 1980. Silence. Then -- 
 Billy's been offered a scholarship to Stanford. 
 I know. And that's a great accomplishment. I'm sure you're very proud of him. 
 So he can accept that, go there, and then - 
 I understand how important college is. I do. But what I can't do is burn a second first-round draft pick on someone who can't play for four years -- no matter how good he is. Four years is ample time for someone to get hurt. It happens all the time. So, no. I'm sorry. It has to be one or the other. To postpone four years is four years he could be in big leagues. The sooner he gets there the sooner he can reap the benefits. 
 We're going to give him a different kind of education. This won't be his life's career, it'll be his first career. He's going to be a young guy in the business world when his baseball career is done. He'll still have his whole life ahead of him. 
 It's your decision, Billy. Whatever you decide is fine with us. 
 Hello? 
 What time is it? 
 What? 
 You were a good baseball player. 
 
 (PAUSE) I'd have drafted you in the ninth round. No signing bonus. You'd have passed and gone to Stanford. 
 Why? 
 Good evening. 
 Yes. 
 Yeah. 
 
-- 
 51, I don't know why I lied just then. 
 This is the American League West. This year we're going to need to win between 97 and 101 games to make the post season. Here's the number of runs we'll need to score in order to win those games and here's the number of runs we can allow. 
 Okay. 
 Yes. 
 Examine the ways that runs are scored and prevented. 
 Unspectacular runs are more valuable. 
 PETER/BILLY 
 We know it for sure. 
 Forget the fish. In this room is every available player at every level of professional baseball, and somewhere in that group are 25 players that everyone has else has thrown out. 
 PETER (CONT'D) An island of misfit toys. In this room is a championship team that we can afford. 
 Math isn't a theory. 
 It's right. 
 It is right. 
 It isn't. 
 Sorry. 
 Somebody once said, "It's not what you don't know that worries me it's what you know for sure that's got me scared." In the mid-19th Century in Budapest there was an incredibly high instance of mothers dying shortly after childbirth from a disease called puerperal fever. 
 A doctor named Semmelweiss showed that if the attending physicians and nurses sterilized their hands before delivery, the mortality rate dropped to 1%. 
 He was institutionalized. For suggesting that washing your hands before putting them inside someone else's body was a good idea. High functioning people can live under the spell of an inexplicable mental lapse when they think as a group. Why isn't anybody else doing it? Because they don't think guys who look like you are what win baseball games. They know it for sure. 
 (PAUSE) Alright, let's find our team. 
 No?? 
 Can I talk to you a second before you get started. 
 I know. Whatever it is, Billy knows it can't be as dire as his other problems, but also knows that to ignore Art would be to insult him. 
 Who's the kid? 
 I can't manage this team under a one-year contract. 
 No I can't. 
 How about you deal with the manager's contract and then put a team on the field? 
 I have to tell you it's not easy doing what I do under the cloud of a one-year contract. 
 I know you have. And a 1-year contract says the same thing to a manager as it does to a player: There's not a lot of faith there. Which is strange after a 102-win season. 
 It's on me now? 
 (BEAT) And the kid's the new assistant general manager. 
 
 (PAUSE) What the fuck are you about to do? BILLY doesn't answer the question, just walks into the- 
 How did it go in Cleveland? 
 Let's get after our relief pitching problem. 
 Submariner? 
 What's his velocity? 
 About 85. 
 Does he have a good breaking ball? 
 Why do you like this guy? 
 The left-hander hitters get a really good look at him. 
 He's down there. He's down there real low, too. 
 Well, we, I think, have fared better. We have some ideas for what to do about Giambi. 
 We trade power for speed. A rabbit for a gorilla - We go for an overachiever. A big heart in the last year his contract. Tend to play hard. We usually get a pretty good year out of them. Make up for some of the offense we lost. (puts more names up) Or the other option. Just a thought. We go for a high-maintenance guy. A guy that's a little difficult but talented. A guy like Milton Bradley. Well, not like Milton. Milton himself. Which do you want to talk about first? 
 We got some trades here. 
 The (what) - 
 You want me to speak? 
 Ten-ninety-two. 
 Three-sixty-four. 
 Three-sixty-four. 
 That doesn't come out right. 
 Still don't look right. 
 Billy? 
 Who's that? 
 I don't know how to say this delicately - but does - Peter - need to be here? 
 What's with this on base percentage obsession? Is that Bill James bullshit? 
 He never comes home from the games. 
 Billy, if I may, he's had his problems on the field -- not to mention his problems off the field -- not to mention he's getting a little thick around the middle -- there's the stuff with the weed. He's at strip joints... 
 This guy could start the year with an agent and end up with a parole officer for Christ's sake. 
 He can't catch a ball in the outfield. I've seen him lose a ball in the moonlight. Billy puts up another name: DAVID JUSTICE. 
 Ten years ago he was a big name. He's going to really help our season tickets at the beginning of the year. But by June he's not going to be hitting his weight. 
 He's 36! 
 His legs are gone. He's a defensive liability. I question whether the bat speed is still there. 
 Steinbrenner is so pissed at his decline he's willing to eat up half his contract to get rid of him. 
 He's a fossil. With all due respect, bringing these three guys aboard is like putting bubble gum on a flat tire. 
 And why do we want to be the ones to bail Justice out of his contract? 
 He gets on base. 
 I got 37 free agents who are better than those guys. 
 Who? 
 Some damage? He can't throw. 
 Wait, you're talkin' about Hatteberg at first? 
 He's a career .260 hitter and the good part of his career is over. 
 Well, Billy, you'll like the sound of this... I hear Boston wants to cut him and no one wants to pick him up. 
 Let me understand this. At first base you want a guy who's been cut from half of the minor league teams in the country due to irreparable nerve damage? 
 (BEAT) Look at the piece of paper or I'm going to point at Peter. The SCOUTS consult their spreadsheets and then answer 
 HALF-HEARTEDLY-- 
 
 (HALF-HEARTEDLY) He can get-- 
 Alright, so he walks a lot. 
 You do not. 
 These three players, by your own admission, are defective in one way or another. 
 You want to replace Jason Giambi with not one but three defective players? 
 Billy, we've all been busting our asses the last six and a half weeks to make this a better ball-- 
 I think we're all losing sight of the fact that you're the general manager. You only have to answer to ownership and God. 
 I hope he does. 
 Billy, I just don't see it. 
 I understand what you're saying about their averages, but there's something you're forgetting. None of them plays first base. 
 Learn. 
 Teach. 
 Which one? 
 Hello? 
 BILLY (VO) Scott? 
 Yes? 
 BILLY (VO) It's Billy Beane. Oakland A's. 
 Yes? 
 BILLY (VO) Can we talk? 
 Yes. 
 BILLY (VO) You want to invite me in? 
 What? 
 BILLY (VO) I'm outside. I can see you in the window. SCOTT goes to the window and cups his hands against the glass to see outside. 
 Honey? 
. 
 Thank you, ma'am. 
 Since I was 8. BILLY produces a baseball from his windbreaker and hands it to. can only manage to grip the baseball like a claw. Washington looks to heaven. 
 Good. Real good. It's great. 
 (FUCK IT) I can't throw at all. 
 I've only ever played catcher. 
 I appreciate it but-- 
 
 That's right. 
 It's incredibly hard! 
 Wait a minute, what about-- 
 I'm taking Giambi's spot at first? What about the fans? 
 Yeah, maybe I can teach one of them. 
 They're gonna hate me. 
 (motioning to BILLY) No, they're gonna hate him. 
 Okay. 
 HATTEBERG'S DAUGHTER Hi. 
 That's our youngest daughter. 
 Do you have kids? 
 (O.S.) You're welcome. 
 Hi, Billy. 
 She's out, but she'll be home soon. 
 
 (ON PHONE) Yeah, no, don't worry about it sweetie. Here's mom. 
 Come on in have a seat. Want some coconut water? It's really refreshing. 
 What are you benching now? 
 Well, whatever it is, it's working. You look good. 
 I haven't got to see you since the playoffs in New York. That was heartbreaking, Billy. We were rooting for you. 
 (BEAT) Yep. 
 You know what I say? 
 (BEAT) I'm sorry Alan, what do you say? 
 No, I just wanted to say that a lot of teams don't get that far, and to make it that far is a really big accomplishment. 
 She's great. Be here in a minute. How's the team shaping up? 
 I read that you lost two players. Damon 
 ALAN (CONT'D) 
 (MISPRONOUNCES) Ghee-ambi? 
 Giambi. Wow, that's tough. That's really tough. 
 Sounds tough. 
 I just talked to her on her cell. She's just coming up the hill, she's two minutes away. 
 Yeah. 
 Just for emergencies. I'm sorry, we should have consulted you for that 
- 
 But actually I called you - The front door opens. It's Billy's daughter Casey - a pre- teen indie-rock girl - and not a moment too soon. He's up quickly to give her a hug and to get out of here. 
 I like the red ones. 
 Yeah, that's cool. 
 Yeah. 
 I've just been playing a lot. 
 Alan thinks I should have a better teacher. 
 Alan thinks I should be working more on technique so I don't learn bad habits. 
 I love it. 
 Yeah. 
 Yes! 
 Yeah, I think so. 
 Really? 
: 1984 BILLY's at the plate, a batting helmet snug around his head, wearing a METS uniform, as a 97 mph fastball buzzes by him and the UMPIRE calls-- 
 Striiike! 
 Striiike! 
: 1985 
: 1986 
 V/O ...Billy Beane, who's quickly establishing a new record for breaking bats, bat racks and water coolers, was actually a much-touted first round pick of the New York Mets in 1980 but the majors have not been kind to him with only 18 plate appearances in two years and this won't doing anything to help him as... 
: 1986 BILLY playing for the Minnesota Twins where he comes back into the dug out and throws his batting helmet down and 
: 1987 
: 1987 
 V/O ...one of two first round picks in 1980 along with Daryl Strawberry, Beane was brought up last year and sent back down after 8 at-bats so here's a second chance as Smith delivers... BILLY playing for the Minnesota Twins. He swings hard at a pitch and strikes out and we 
: 1988 
: 1989 
 V/O ...If you're a real baseball fan with a good memory you might remember that Billy Beane was taken in the first round of the amateur draft back in 1980, separated from All-Star outfielder Daryl Strawberry by only 14 picks, so it just goes to show... 
 Strike! 
 Hey Billy, clean up after yourself. 
 How'd it go? 
 Hatteberg. 
 That is Kevin Youkilis. This is the guy we want more than anyone else in the world. 
 He can't run, throw or field. But he walks more than anyone in baseball except Barry Bonds. Take out intentional walks and it's more than Bonds. He's the Greek God of Walks. 
 I tried to get Shapiro to draft him last June. He said he waddled like a duck. Boston took him. Boston won't let him go yet. They're going to wait and see. 
 You all right, Billy? 
 O/S Billy? Grady has appeared behind them at the door. 
 Can we talk a minute? 
 Your boy and I had a talk while you were in Tacoma. I didn't like much of what I heard. 
 No. You got a kid in there with a Yale economics degree and a scout out here with 29 years baseball experience and you're listening to the wrong one. 
 This isn't a joke. 
 This isn't how you run a ball club, with a computer. You know that. You're a baseball man. There are intangibles that only a scout can see in a player that you're not going to pick up with just numbers, with someone who doesn't play the game, who knows nothing about the game but how to feed numbers into a computer. 
 If this is what baseball is, if it's not Kirk Gibson going up to the plate on two bad legs because the manager felt in his heart that he had one swing left in that body... a computer wouldn't do that. They would have had him sitting up in the stands. 
 Well, romance and the fans, it's called a love affair with the game and it's been going on for one hundred and fifty years. 
 You're saying everybody's been wrong? Everybody? Beat. 
 Are you saying everybody's been wrong? 
 (BEAT) 
 --we're gonna see if you're right?! This is about you and your shit? Some scouts from 20 years ago called it wrong, okay? They thought you were a ballplayer and you weren't. As you know, it happens. Don't take it out on-- 
 I'm trying to help, okay, I'm saying-- 
 (BEAT) Grady, you don't have special powers. You don't have the ability to look at a guy and "just know" because you're a scout with special powers. I've watched you sit at kitchen tables for years and tell the parents of a 17 year old kid, "Trust me, when I know, I know, and when it comes to your son, I know" and you don't. We're shopping in a new store--full of complicated statistical analysis and equations and I get that it turns your world upside down but on base percentage-- our best chance to score on our budget isn't getting a 6'4" Adonis to the plate, it's getting a 5'10" washout who's already at first base. 
 
 (PAUSE) May I speak? 
 Major League Baseball and its fans will be happy to hand you and Google Boy your heads if you keep doing what you're doing here, I don't give a shit about friendship this situation or the past. Major League Baseball thinks the way I think. You're not gonna win. And I'll give you a nickel's worth of free advice. 
 GRADY (CONT'D) You're making it impossible for yourself to get another job once Schott fires you after this catastrophic season you're setting us all up for and you're gonna have to explain to your wife and your kid why you're working at Dick's Sporting Goods. 
 Go fuck yourself, Billy. 
 Billy, will the fans still come out now that you've lost Giambi? 
 I can judge it and so can you. First base is the moon to him. 
 The nicest way I can put it is, he lacks confidence. 
 I'll do that, Billy, but we've got Pena who can play first. And he's looking pretty good out there. 
 Not to mention we already have a first baseman. 
 Number 11 on the Top 100 Prospects list. 
 Catchers at first base aren't baseball. Who's idea was this? Peter's? 
 He will be fine, you're right. Pinch hitting while Pena plays first base. 
 Yeah... been doing it for way too long. 
 How long does it take? 
 When I first started these things? It was like a half hour process. Now I can knock these suckers out in 30 seconds, no problem. 
 Is a dollar, mang. 
 What? 
 Always been like that here. 
 You're kidding me, right? 
 Welcome to Oakland. 
 Excuse me, Mr. Beane. 
 I hope I'm not disturbing you. 
 I wanted to say thanks for the opportunity. 
 Nobody in the major league ever took me seriously. 
 (PAUSE) Nobody? 
 Just you, sir. 
 (BEAT) It's a big day, you won't forget it. 
 I'm going to pray for you and your family. 
: 
 Hi, I'm Elizabeth. 
 Hi. Tara. Which is yours? 
 Scott Hatteberg. Catcher - actually first base - actually we don't know. Yours? 
 
. 
 
 He's a saint. 
 Really? 
 Are they picking up your option for next year? 
 I brought it up to them during the off- season, and I still do not have my option. 
 Are you frustrated? 
 I think it's fair to say that. 
 (BEAT) I'm heading in. 
 Why? 
 Is this a joke? 
 I'm miming "You don't watch the games?!" 
 "643" 
 What are you trying to say? 
 
 (LONG BEAT) You are out of your depth. 
 Because he can't play first. 
 Not my first baseball game. 
-- 
 Scott Hatteberg can't hit. 
 And his defense-- 
 Anything else? 
 
'S-- 
 I do. 
 No, you've made it clear what you think about that. This is about you doing your job and me doing mine. Mine's being left alone to manage the beer league team you assembled for me. 
 No shit. 
 You don't go on the road with the team. 
 Why don't you? 
 The only way I'd have to cut a player is if you oh come on! 
 No. 
 No. 
 This is stupid. 
 Fine. Billy, would you have a seat for a moment, I need to talk to you. 
 I was pretending you weren't sitting. 
 This is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball. 
 Yeah. 
 You've been a huge part of this team but decisions have to be made that are best for the team, I'm sure you can understand that. 
 I'm really sorry. 
 
 (BEAT) Well... 
 That's--I'd leave them in school, you don't want to take them out in the middle 
 Are you you or the player? 
 Shouldn't I tell them that they'll always be a part of the A's family? 
 That's it? 
 Those are my only choices? 
 How come your boss doesn't travel with the team? 
 He doesn't like to mingle with the players. 
 Makes us easier to cut? 
 He's gonna make some moves if we keep losing. PETER gives a small "Yeah" shrug... 
 How come soda costs a dollar in the clubhouse? 
 Billy likes to keep the money on the field. 
 Soda money? 
 Where on the field is the dollar I pay for soda? 
 
 (BEAT) It's hard to see. 
 (shaking his head) Alright. 
 V/O The A's begin their first road trip of the season having dropped 7 of their first 11 games at home and their schedule doesn't get any easier from here. If there's a bright spot it's rookie first baseman Carlos Pena. 
 V/O With the A's getting off to a miserable start/13 of their last 20/17 of their last 25/etc... 
 Hey, aren't you Billy Beane? 
 Shouldn't you be at the game? 
 Hey, Dad. 
 It's not a big enough sample yet. I want to wait until we play more games. 
 And Justice hits into the 6-4-3 double play to end the game... The INDIANS trot on the field to high-five each other. 
 Both. 
 Vanilla. Definitely vanilla. 
 Yup. A beat. Then -- 
 Dad... if you could choose between the power of invisibility or flight, which would you choose? 
 I think I'd want invisibility. 
 I don't know. People wouldn't notice me as much. 
 I don't know. 
 My teacher's kinda mean. She doesn't like us to ask questions. 
 I know, right? Mom was mad, too. She thinks maybe I should be home schooled. 
 Yeah. But the other kids are mean. 
 Can I ask you a question? Are you still chewing tobacco? 
 Please stop. 
 Pinkie swear? 
 Theoretically, when we've played more games the numbers will become more 
 Okay. Billy's Blackberry chimes. He ignores it. 
 (PAUSE) I feel like-- 
 
 (PAUSE) You feel like what? 
 (BEAT) I don't know, did we talk enough this time? 
 About what? 
 
 (PAUSE) Yeah!? 
 I love you, Dad. 
 What? 
 Sorry. 
 Yeah. 
 Okay. Can I worry about the airplane now though? 
 We're all set. 
-- 
 Art Howe is the only manager in baseball who has to think about pinch running his leadoff hitter. Down in the Visitors' pen, Chad sits with Mike Magnante. 
 Why do you do it? 
 I can't not do it. 
 How do you do it? Every ball park's different. 
 I take that into account and adjust the distance of my steps. 
 Exactly seventy-four, from the pen to the mound. 
 MAGNANTE (CONT'D) 
 (BRADFORD NODS) You should get that looked at, man. 
 
 V/O -- after Sunday's 11-0 rout. Now, having dropped 13 of 16, the A's are a game away from being swept at home by the AL East last place Baltimore Orioles. 
 Billy. 
 Peter. Guys, give me some idea of what's going on out there. 
 
 3 out of 17 games. 3. We're getting crucified in the press. What makes you think this is gonna turn around? 
 Billy, look, you've got guys who are nearly crippled, who couldn't get hired as an usher in a ballpark now playing on the team. Give me something I can go back to these guys with and feel like I have the confidence that you're gonna turn these things around. 
 You haven't done it yet billy. 
 Billy, there's a lot of money at stake here. 
 SCHOTT (CONT'D) And a lot of people with vested interest in seeing this be successful. I've given you a lot of flexibility. When are we gonna start to see a change in these results? Schott sits back at his desk. 
 Give me a date, give me a time frame. 
 Our goal and our expectation by the All Star break is to be within seven games of first place. 
 And that would be this working exceptionally well. 
 7 within 500. By July. And what's going to keep us from getting there? 
 Nothing. We're 3 for 17 right now. You've got to be able to give me a little bit more to go back to my partners with. 
 That's not good enough. 
 Billy, put yourself in my shoes. What do you imagine is going to happen if things don't turn around? 
 We don't have another 20 million 
 I gotta be honest with you, Billy, I wish you had a little more worry and a little more fear. Because things aren't going in our direction right now. 
 Let's hope the next 30 are better than the last 30. 
 All right fellas. Let's go try and win one. We're in May, we've got til July. 
 You want Pena on the bench? 
 Hatte - as opposed to the guy who's going to win Rookie of the Year. 
 Pena's not just the best first baseman on the roster, he's the only first baseman on the roster and the most valuable member on this team. 
 
-- 
 
-- 
 It does matter and Pena only has one error in 70 games. 
 Part of the conversation? I've heard enough of the conversation and I disagree with you, plain and simple. Moreover, I strongly believe that you're in the middle of experiencing some sort of personal crisis and you seem indifferent to the fact that you're taking a whole organization down with you. I'm playing my team in a way I can explain in job interviews this winter. 
 It's just one game. 
 The point is always tomorrow's game. 
 I'm doing the best I can with what I've got. I'm playing the players I've got. 
 Yeah! 
 
 (NERVOUS LAUGH) What? 
 No. 
 (CALMLY) This is what losing sounds like. He heads out. 
 V/O ...point 3-5 below the AL average field which isn't bad. 
 (BEAT) Billy? 
 Cruz -- .283, .347, .476. Stevens -- .244, .349, .560. Miner -- .272, .349, .499. Hanson -- .280, .363, .450. Baretta -- .273, .354, .497. Durazo -- .292, .395, .621. What do you think? 
 (BEAT) I don't know where I am. 
 You okay? 
 Have you thought about what you might do if baseball doesn't work out? 
 (PAUSE) What? 
 That was too abrupt. 
 (PAUSE) What? 
 
 (BEAT) If baseball doesn't work out. Have you thought about what you might do? 
 (BEAT) The game's only been over for three hours, I haven't had that much time to think about it. 
 Sure. 
 (BEAT) Maybe real estate. 
 
 I-- 
 
 (PAUSE) It's just a slump, right? 
 (BEAT) No. 
 You're saying every scout was wrong? 
 
 COMMENTATOR (PRELAP) When a science experiment fails in a lab, things blow up. 
 Why. 
 Why. 
 V/O Hello? 
 No, you (aren't) - 
) Who you got? 
 V/O Let me think. 
 What are you doing? Jeremy's doing 
 V/O Maybe? 
 V/O No. Mabry. 
) Mabry? 
 I don't know. 
 Runs hot and cold, Billy. Impossible to know what we're going to get. He's a crap shoot. He's exactly the kind of player we're not looking for. 
 V/O Why do I get the feeling you're picking my pocket? 
 V/O You realize - 
 (INTO PHONE) I do. His career is stagnant, to put it nicely. Can we say it's done in theory and start drawing up paperwork? 
 V/O Okay. But - 
 I think he was going to say something else. 
 I don't think you want to do that. 
 Maybe you should think about this. You're upset and this is - this - 
 It's just a very hard move to explain. People are going to think you've lost your mind. 
 Don't make an emotional decision Billy. 
 David Dombrowski's on 3. 
 (INTO PHONE) David, Peña's going on the blocks, you're my first call... because he's making the rest of the team look bad... He's going to be rookie of the year... 
 (not eager to help but...) Probably an all star. 
) It's more like he's creating self-esteem problems for the other guys... No, I'm looking for a reliever and some cash... Ok... five minutes Dave, I'm not waiting. 
 (HANGS UP) What's the problem? 
 (trying to slow it 
 (BEAT) You worried about my job or yours? 
 
 (BEAT) I'm worried about yours. 
 That's probably true. 
 (BEAT) I don't think we're asking the right question. I think the question we're supposed to be asking now is, do you believe in what we're doing or not? 
 (BEAT) It's a problem that you think we need to explain ourselves. Don't... to anyone. I'm going to see this through, for better or for worse. Just tell me, do you project we'll win more games with Peña or Hatteberg on first? 
 It's close Billy but theoretically Hatteberg. 
 (LISTENS) That works. Great. There's just one more thing I need. I don't want the guys paying for soda--I want you to stock my soda machine for three years. Uh huh, uh huh, great... then that's a deal. Billy hangs up. He stares at Peter. 
 That was thoughtful. 
 You want me to tell Pena he's been traded? 
 What about Jeremy? Am I telling him, too. 
 Hey, Carlos. 
 Yeah. 
 Can I get a moment with you? 
 Sure. 
 Okay, maybe we can talk over here. 
 Have a seat. They sit. 
 So, um, Carlos, you've been traded to the Tigers. This is the number of Jay Palmer, their travel secretary. He's expecting your call. He'll help you arrange travel to Detroit. 
 Is that all? 
 Yeah. 
 Cool. 
 Please. 
 I don't want to go 15 rounds, Billy, the line-up card is mine and that's all. 
 I am starting Pena at first. 
 
 (PAUSE) You traded Pena?! 
 You are outside your fucking mind. 
 No. 
 The what? 
 You're killing this team. 
 What are you looking at? 
 I'm not looking at anything. 
 You went along with this? You agree with this bullshit? 
 
 (BEAT) A hundred percent. 
 Keep your head up, okay? It's part of the business. You're gonna be a great player, okay? 
 Thank you, man. 
 Don't let this bother you at all. 
 Nice to meet you, brother. Take care and... God bless you, man. 
 Thank you. 
 You're the best first baseman here. It's not right, Carlos. 
 Thank you, Hattie. 
 Yeah. 
 Yes sir. 
 No more bunts? 
 A bunt isn't an out. It's a sacrifice. 
 You want us to walk more. How much more? 
 At least once every ten at bats. 
 Or...? 
) Don't look at him. Here's the deal. I'm not interested in what you think you know about baseball, or what you think I don't know about it. I'm not interested in guts or heart or determination or anything else the fans or your mothers love about you. I'm interested in you getting on base. If you do that, we win. If you don't, we lose. And I hate to lose. I hate to lose more than I need to win. There's a difference. 
 Every at bat is like a hand of blackjack. Every card that's dealt, your odds completely change. For instance, every first pitch strike, your batting average goes down about 75 points. 
 75 points. Every first pitch ball, it goes up about the same amount. So you gotta lay off the first pitch. 
 First pitch curveball or first pitch fastball? 
 First pitch period. When you swing at the first pitch you're batting .140. 
 How many pitches? 
 Every starter, we want to see 100 pitches by the 5th inning. 
 So... 5, 6 pitches per at bat? 
 Yeah. I mean, Hatteberg drained 38 pitches. 
 Basically, these are all your at bats. This is you versus righties, you versus lefties... and then, of course, all your count knowledge, okay? In an 0-0 count you're batting .290. In an 0-1 you average .238. In a 0-2, .159. When you're 1-0, you're batting .324. Understand what I'm saying? 
 Not really. 
 I know, it's a lot of math. When your first pitch is a strike, your batting average goes down about 70 points. 
 PETER (CONT'D) When it's a ball, it goes up about 30. If you draw a ball on your first pitch, you're unstoppable. If you strike on the first pitch, you might as well be jumping off cliff. I'm trying to get you to lay off the first pitch. 
 But I'm a first pitch hitter. I like to swing at fastballs. 
 And that's the way you've been trained. But it's a habit we'd like to break you from. We're trying to design the game to your strengths. This has nothing to do with you being a great hitter -- you're a great hitter. We just want to get you on base. 
 But if I get my pitch, I'm gonna swing at it, no matter what the count is. 
 I'm not worried about you crushing the ball out of the park. I just want you to lay off anything that will result in a strike. 
 I guess I'll have to watch some film and take a look at it. 
 Absolutely. The video room is open to you any time, I'm always available. 
 -- But seriously. Make him use up all his bullets. 
 So... Mr. Beane? 
 
 Mr. Beane -- 
 So we just don't steal? 
 You've actually gotten caught 6 out of 17 tries this season. 
 What's your biggest fear? 
 A baseball being hit in my general direction. 
 That's funny. 
 Seriously. 
 You gonna teach me something? 
 I've never seen a GM talk to players. 
 Huh. 
 It's okay, man. I know your routine. It's a patter, it's rap, it's for effect. That's okay. But it's for them, it's not for me. 
 You're paying me 7 million bucks so I guess I am a little. 
 Where are you going with this, Billy? 
 We're cool. 
 You know, I got a couple World Series rings. I think I'm a pretty good competitor, too. 
 ANNOUNCER (VO) Tejada taking a big lead off first, eyeing the steal-- 
 Did you hear that? 
 Billy. 
) That smell is getting worse. 
 I'm on it, Billy. 
 Splitting the plate in half. 
) Huddy, you gotta mix it up tonight. Trust your slider. 
 Yes sir. 
 You got it, Billy. 
 (TO JUSTICE) Hey David -- 
 Hey, man. 
 Thank you. 
 Come in. BILLY does. He's going to try to do this nicely. 
 Good. You knocked. 
 We'll see. 
 We've won 7 in a row, what am I doing wrong now? 
 Good. 
 Yeah. 
 Head problems. 
 Okay. 
 I appreciate this. 
 But I know my bullpen. 
 Yeah? 
 I'll make that decision when the time comes. 
 
-- 
 You think a lot of yourself, don't you? 
 (BEAT) Okay? 
 I could've coached you up, you know. 
 You think you went as far as you could have? 
 (PAUSE) Yeah, that's what I meant. Play Bradford. 
! 
 You can't be in there, Billy. 
 Billy? 
 Players and coaches only, Billy. 
) Remember that in about four seconds-- BILLY sees one of the nearby TV cameras pivot over to catch this conversation-- 
 
-- 
 Come on, Billy. 
 You want one, Billy? 
 Are you thinking Rincon? 
 Hardcore. 
 Shapiro on two. 
 V/O Are you referring to Rincon? 
 V/O And you can? There's half a million on his contract and at least one other suitor. 
 V/O I'd rather not say. 
 
 (WHISPERS) San Francisco. 
 What do you think we can get for Magnante? 
) What's left on Venafro's contract? 
 Two-seventy-five. 
 Us. 
 On three. 
 V/O (smelling a rat) Why would you do that, Billy? 
 V/O Uh-huh. 
 Anderson. 
 V/O I like Anderson. 
 Anderson. 
 V/O I'll think (about) -- 
 Two! 
 -- 
 V/O You can't afford him, Billy. 
 You just offered him to the Giants. 
 Totally agree. 
 Phillips on two. 
 V/O What's the angle? 
 V/O Who am I getting fleeced for? 
 Bennett maybe? 
 Twenty-six. 
 Duncan? No. Cerda? No. Furbush? 
 (BEAT) No. 
 Eckerton? Eckerton. Eckerton, that's the guy. Billy punches the phone off hold. 
 V/O Eckerton? I like Eckerton. 
 Hello? 
 V/O Is Venafro hurt? 
 Oh, hi. 
 It's Steve. 
 V/O Last couple of times out, he got hammered. 
 (MUTE) I'm on with Steve. 
 (UNMUTE) Not his fault. We misused him. 
 Steve Schott. 
 V/O I heard the Giants -- 
 
 -- 
 Yes, I understand it's impolite to keep you holding. 
 V/O I'll think about it. 
 He hung up. 
 What? 
 
 (THINKS) Invisibility. 
 You'd have total access. Besides, everyone else would choose flight. 
 Shapiro's on two. 
 Phillips or Schott? 
 Right. 
 Mr. Schott, it's Peter Brand. Sorry I left you on hold. Billy asked me to call you back. He's on another line. 
 Billy says he needs two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars for Ricardo Rincon. Please? 
 Billy says he'll pay for Rincon himself, sell him next year, and keep the profit. 
 Okay. Thank you. 
 (HANGS UP) He says he'll pay for Rincon. High five. 
) Mark. Yeah, it's Billy. Here's the deal. I don't want Rincon pitching against me tonight. Tell him to change his clothes. I got you the money and I accept your gratitude. It's done. He hangs up. Fist bump. 
 I call not it. 
 V/O No. 
 V/O No, as in no. I'm not doing it. You do it. You did it, so you do it. Art hangs up. Billy slams the speakerphone. 
 It's not the phone's fault. Suzanne, we're gonna need a new speakerphone. 
 -- 
 Hey, Billy. I know I've been struggling lately. But we're coming into the home stretch, and I promise I'm gonna turn it 
 Traded? 
 Alright. 
 Hola, senor. 
 Muy divertido. 
 I pitch tonight? 
 I no wanna pitch tonight. 
 Veracruz, Mexico. 
 Dad... Tara and I -- 
 She is correct. 
 That'd be fun. 
 Me go, too? 
 (beat, then) Dad... are you going to lose your job? 
 The internet. 
 I'm not talking to people, I'm just reading stuff. 
 He's not (losing his job). Your dad is a brilliant man. He's the best GM in baseball. 
 But say that you did -- just saying -- would you have to move away? 
 You can't always believe what you read. Sometimes you need to scratch underneath the surface and find who the authority is. 
 You can always ask your dad. 
 Pinkie swear? 
: AL West GB WP Seattle --- .610 Anaheim 2.0 .593 Oakland 4.5 .571 Texas 21.5 .427 
 V/O The A's begin this road trip on a 10 game winning streak, picking up two games on the Mariners and the Angels, and it should be noted this is their longest winning streak in six years heading into-- 
 This is a chart of what you should and shouldn't be swinging at. These circles represent different pitches. Red is hit, blue is out, yellow's missed or foul, green is chased, white taken. This is you versus Conway. What do you see? 
 I'm chasing a lot of high and outside. 
 The red is where most hits happen. That's where you want to be swinging. You don't want to be swinging at the junk at the top of the strike zone. We'd rather take those strikes, `cause you're not going to hit `em out of the park. And you're good about that, patient. 
 PETER (CONT'D) Right now you're averaging about 4 pitches per at-bat. 
 4 per bat? 
 Yeah, and that's great. One of the reasons why we love you. You're draining a pitcher's pitches. Now, guys like Bonds and Jason Giambi average a little over 5. That's top tier. Does this chart make sense to you? 
 Yeah. I'll get on base more if I lay off anything high. This is awesome. So you have a breakdown of this from every game? 
 Every game. Your instincts are in the right place. This isn't something they teach you in little league. This is something fundamental we're looking for -- how to wear out a pitcher's arm. If you're about to face Conway and wondering what you should and shouldn't swing at, come in here and watch how you're tending. You can click on any one of these pitches and watch it happen. Pretty great, right? 
 Show me some of the stuff I'm chasing up high... TIME LAPSE of hundreds of at bats registering and changing modalities to produce graphs and numbers. PULL OUT to reveal we're now in 
 Everybody thinks the first pitch is what's most important, but it's not. It's the first two out of three pitches that matter the most. 
 PETER (CONT'D) The difference between 1-2 and 2-1 is the difference between a scrub and an All Star. 
 Any sort of extra discipline in the first three pitches will help us. 
 Hatteberg once had 18 walks in 30 at bats. 
 Actually... 11. 
 Sorry, Billy. It's just, the smell... 
 (INDICATES STAIN) It's that. And it's growing. 
 I'm gonna grab a shower. 
 I feel like I'm hurting the team. At first base I'm making a lot of errors. I'm gonna cost us a hundred runs. 
 I appreciate that, but I know you're just pulling those numbers out of your ass. 
 Social? 
 Yes sir. 
 What are you guys getting up to tonight? 
 #1 Bed by ten o'clock. Game time. 
 I don't buy it. 
 #1 I'm sore, man. Beat up. Day in, day out. 
 Where d'you guys go next? 
 #1 Houston. 
 Houston? 
 #1 That's good fishing. 
 "Mankevich" is polish? 
 #2 Yes, sir. 
 Where'd you go to school? 
 #3 University of Arizona. 
 What are you guys getting up to tonight? 
 #3 See what the city's about -- San Francisco. What are you up to? 
 I don't know. Depends on if we beat you today. Probably celebrating. 
 #3 Jaqcue. 
 I'm Scott. 
 #3 How are you doing, Scott? 
 Pretty good. You got kids? 
 #3 Yeah... 
 Oakland's offense has exploded, scoring 40 runs in their last four games and extending their streak to 17 in a row which is an American League record going back to 1954 and just three shy of the 
 ALL-TIME-- 
 Who would have thought in April I'd be saying this: The A's won their 18th game in a row, that's two-shy of tying, three- shy of beating the American League record- 
 #1 V/O This is something special now and far be it for me to jinx it by saying how many consecutive games the A's have won-- 
 #2 V/O 
-- 
 #1 V/O Well you said it not me. Tickets are torn and purses searched as record breaking numbers of fans pour into the stadium. 
 #2 V/O None of the Oakland fans in their cars down there have forgotten the A's inglorious history-making choke in Game 5 of the ALDS last October and tonight-- 
 Hey, listen up fellas... bring it up real quick. 
: 
 20 
 #2 V/O --one game shy of 20 consecutive wins, they have a shot at redemption. How rare is it to win 20 games in a row? This rare: No American League team has ever done it. 
 V/O It's me, Billy. 
 V/O Nope. 
 V/O You hangin' in there? 
 (BEAT) Sharon? 
 V/O 
 (PAUSE) "Go into real estate". What a stupid thing to say. BILLY didn't even realize until that moment how much he wanted to hear her say that...He's not sure what to say back. 
 V/O Good luck. Casey wants to talk to you. 
 V/O Are you on your way to the stadium? 
 Dad - turn around. You have to see the game. 
 Turn around. 
 V/O Tim Hudson is carving through this Royals line-up and at the end of three, it's the A's 11 and Kansas City nothing. 
 (BEAT) Ohhhh God. 
 V/O Kansas City's scored five and Oakland's lead is down to six as Art Howe comes out to the mound to pull Tim Hudson. 
 V/O He'll go with the submariner, Chad Bradford. 
 One, two, three, four - 
 I know what it is to be in need and to have plenty. I am content. I can do all things through Christ who gives me 
-- 
) Okay Chad, let's see it. 
 Hattie. Grab a bat. 
 Let's go. 
 Ball! 
 Mr. Beane? I'm Elizabeth Hatteberg. We met at my house last Christmas. 
 Thank you. 
 I'm sorry. 
 You don't know what it's like to have everyone think you're a failure. 
 (the worst possible 
) I did. 
 (BEAT) And he knows I did. 
 He's talked to you? 
 (BEAT) That's all over now. 
 Congratulations. 
 (TOASTS) To twenty. 
 To twenty. 
 What did she say? 
 You didn't. You found him and you put that together. 
 You deserve it. Honey, 20 games. It's a record. 
: 
 5 Minnesota Twins at Oakland A's The camera pans down the huge scoreboard. It's excruciating. The numbers on the board tell us it's been an incredibly close game but the A's are losing by one run in the bottom of the ninth with two outs and nobody on. 
 V/O The flaw in the A's thinking, and this comes from the top of their organization-- is their failure to comprehend you have to manufacture runs in the post season. 
 V/O You have to steal. You have to bunt. You have to sacrifice. You have to trust in small ball, not Billy Ball. 
 V/O They think they've devised a science to win games. They think it resides in a computer. They thumb their nose at fundamentals. At tradition. At Baseball. 
 V/O They're bean counters in Oakland. That's bean with an "e" at the end. They're card counters at the blackjack table who forget the house always wins. 
 V/O This is weird, Billy. 
 It's like a politician quitting a campaign to become a staffer. Do you even know what a scout does? 
 And you're ready to say, "I'm not a baseball player"? 
 (V.O.) So I heard. John Henry reached out to you? 
 (V.O.) That's what he said. 
 (V.O.) Well, how am I supposed to react to all of this? You're under contract, Billy. You extended. 
 (V.O.) You're asking me to let them talk to you? 
 (V.O.) Well, I can't do that unless I know Peter is in place as my GM. 
 (V.O.) I'm not letting you take him with you, and I have no idea if he's willing to stay if you aren't here. How do I even know I can come to terms with him, given the extremely disadvantaged bargaining position you're putting me in? 
 (V.O.) If you want out of your contract, I want their whole team and a lot of cash. We've invested in you. 
 (V.O.) And I said I won't give you permission unless I know I have Peter! You can't leave me with a vacant front office. 
 (V.O.) I will. Silence. 
 (V.O.) All right. You know what? I've made it a point never to stand in the way of a man wanting to make more money. They made the call, the genie's out of the bottle. I had faith in your judgement when I named you GM; that's why I did it and I have faith in it now. Good luck, Billy. 
 Well, I didn't see that coming. 
 Okay... okay... 
 I'm a little overwhelmed right now. I think I need to process what's happening. 
 (O.S.) Billy Beane! 
 Due respect to the Coliseum, but this is a ball park. 
 
 That's a shame. Let's walk the field. 
 Hey, I'm sorry I kept you waiting but believe it or not there was snow on 84. The second week in October. The car turns on to Yawkee Way and it's 53 degrees and this. How can there be an entirely different weather system here than there is three miles from here? Is that global warming or a sign that there's no such thing? 
 What's that Billy Joel song? Oh the snow it was falling from Stockbridge to Boston. And the hilltops seemed something because of that frosting. 
 Well whatever, it was snowing from Stockbridge to Boston so I'm sorry I'm late. We'll have lunch in a little bit but why don't I have some coffee sent up. (he's already got his cell phone open) Denise? (back to BILLY) We've got espresso, cappuccino, latte, we've got a machine that makes whatever you want. 
 I heard about that. 
 (INTO PHONE) Can you have some coffee in there for us? 
 (BEAT) Thank you. 
 It's her birthday and I need to get her a present but she's usually the one who does that for me so do you have any ideas? 
 (PAUSE) A scarf? 
 You mean like wool? 
 Sure! Excellent. 
 (PAUSE) And where would I get something like that? 
 Steve Schott told me he's offering you a new contract. 
 So why'd you return my call? 
 Why it took someone so long to hire that guy is beyond me. 
 Money buys a lot of things. One is the luxury to disregard what baseball thinks. 
 You were grateful. 
 For 41 million you built a playoff team. You lost Damon, Giambi, Isringhausen and Pena and you won two more games without them than you did with them. And we begin a slow push-in on BILLY... this is the first person in baseball other than his assistant who doesn't think he's crazy. 
 You won the exact same number of games as the Yankees but the Yankees paid 1.4 million dollars per win and you paid two- hundred and sixty thousand. Yes, I want you to be my General Manager. 
 (PAUSE) I know you're taking it in the teeth. The first guy through a wall always gets hurt. But those are dying voices. Any GM that doesn't tear down their team and rebuild it using your model is gonna be a dinosaur. 
 My first offer. BILLY opens it, looks at it for less than a second, and looks back up at... 
 Heads up! 
 Sorry. 
 I don't know. Sorry. 
 You're giving me Youkilis, Billy. 
 Come on Billy, Schott's going to want something in exchange for letting you out of your contract and I want Youkilis. 
 And Cash. And a player to be named later. 
 I don't want your job. 
 You didn't leave me much choice. 
 Did he make you a good offer? 
 What was it? 
 He offered to make you the highest paid GM in pro sports. 
 I don't know. I've never heard you say you did. 
 You're not doing it for the money. 
 You're doing it for what the money says. It says what it says to any player who gets big money: that they're worth it. 
 (BEAT) I made one personal decision based on money in my life and I swore to never do that again. 
 So you're not going to Boston? 
 It's all over the news that it's a done deal. 
 I think you've already won, Billy. 
 You haven't given yourself time to get over it, it's only been three days. 
 
 (BEAT) I've got something in the video room, come with me. 
 No, come with me. 
 It's not much more than a home movie but you'll get the idea. 
 The Visalia Oaks and their 240 pound catcher, Jeremy Brown, who's scared of running to second. This was in a game six weeks ago. 
 This guy's gonna start him off with a fastball low and in because he hasn't read the book on our guy and doesn't know that low and in is where he eats. Jeremy takes him to deep center -- We see JEREMY BROWN connect and the ball fly off the bat but the camera stays on JEREMY running to first. slows down the picture with the remote 
 -- and he knows that if he runs it's a stand-up double and he's running. 
 And now he's gonna do something he never does. He's gonna round first base, he's gonna take the turn. 
 No. Because right here -- 
 -- is what he's always been afraid of. It's all he can do to get himself back to first. JEREMY has been scrambling in the dirt to get safely back to first base. 
 That's the first base coach. 
 Everybody's laughing. 
 And now Jeremy finds out why. Watch his face because this is art. He's just found out the ball went 60 feet over the fence. He'd hit a home run but he didn't know it. 
 
 (PAUSE) It was a metaph-- 
 That was a hell of a baseball season, boss. 
 (V.O.) 
 (V.O.) 
