 "And God said to Abraham, 'Take your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go into the land of Moriah and offer him there for a sacrifice upon a mountain that I will show you..." 
 And why did the Holy One -- blessed be He -- do this? Why did he ask Abraham to sacrifice his only son, whom he loved? 
 But, Danny, if HaShem is everything, and we are nothing how are we to judge His actions? 
 Anyway, God never lets Abraham kill Isaac. He provides the ram so that -- 
 You think?! Based on what? 
 No one follows that midrash. 
 Watch your language.... 
 Avi -- ask Rabbi Springer to come remove Danny from the class.... 
 And you, if you had come out of Egypt, you would have been destroyed in the desert with those who worshipped the Golden Calf. 
 SUEDE-HEAD Fucking kike. 
 SUEDE-HEAD Get up.... Get the fuck up.... 
 WOMAN'S VOICE Is this working? I'm trying to reach Danny Balint...Danny, it's Vicki, we met at Happy Jack's last month...? 
 WOMAN'S VOICE I was hoping maybe we could...get together again... Give me a call -- 718-555-0193. 
 Vodka tonic. 
 ...So she takes the pants in back -- where they try them on? And I think fuck it.... 
 Are you shitting me?? Right in the store? 
 She's been giving me the eye. She's hot. So I wait till the owner goes up front.... 
 What are you doing?? 
 (indicating swastika) What do you think you're doing? 
 Who the fuck are you? 
 (coming toward them) Who am I?? Who are you, you schmucks, you can't even make a decent swastika.... Give me the paint. (O.L. looks to his friends) Give it to me. 
 (gruff but avuncular) It's too squared off. You got to orient it up and down, diamond-shaped, like this.... (sprays an excellent swastika) ...The arms go clockwise. (hands the can back) You're going to Curtis Zampf; me, too. Let's go? 
 (O.S.) ...Where I grew up in South Boston twenty years ago, when a kid walked down the street, everyone knew who he was... 
 ...If he ran out in front of a car, some old Mick'd yell at him, "Jimmy Dunne, get back on that sidewalk and stay there...." 
 ...The day he graduated high school, he'd go see his uncle down at the gas works, or the priest's brother in the shipyard, get his apprentice papers, eight years later he'd be making $16.50 an hour, have four kids, play ball on Sundays in Columbus Park, and when he died, the whole town'd get drunk and cry over him.... 
 ...Today, when that kid walks down the street it's full of trash and half the faces are black. The shipyard's closed, all the jobs at the gas works are set-asides, and by the time he drops out of school, he can barely get a job at Burger King. So he drinks, smokes crack, and when he hangs himself on the front porch at twenty-three, the only people at his wake are a couple of buddies and his mother. The boy's father won't find out he's dead till six months later. (beat) The soul of this country is being destroyed, and all the government can offer is free trade, mutual funds and IPOs. 
 You sound like a leftist. 
 I used to be one.... No, seriously, I called myself an anarchist. I stood up for the oppressed. I opposed state power. 
 I oppose the present state because it's weak. It has been ever since the left emasculated it over Vietnam. But I think the average man is crushed less by accumulated capital than the loss of community or real leadership, the personal emptiness he simply cannot fill on his own.... (matter-of-fact) That's why I'm a fascist. It's the only form of government that addresses our deepest needs. 
 What do you think the fascism of the twenty-first century will look like? 
 More cultural than political. 
 Obviously. 
 Decentralized, nonviolent, increasingly mainstream. We'll see antiabortion, anti-immigration groups form alliances with the gun lobby, Christian identity types, tax resisters and even some libertarians.... 
 What about race? 
 This isn't the time for that. 
 I disagree. (glances at Carla) I think race is central to everything we're talking about. (murmurs of agreement) Spiritual life comes from race. From the blood. Without that, we're no better than the Jews.... 
 What's wrong with the Jews? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Carla... 
 Have you read Toynbee? Spengler? 
 Nobody reads that stuff anymore. 
 Too difficult? 
 Too Christian. You know Jameson? Paul Virilio? 
 The point is, the modern world is a Jewish disease. 
 Disease? What disease? 
 Abstraction. They're obsessed with abstraction. 
 Killing Jews. 
 That would be a catastrophic mistake. 
 People hate Jews. Do you agree? 
 They used to. Today it's not an issue. 
 No, but deep down, beneath the "tolerance" they learn on television, nothing's changed. The very word makes their skin crawl. (around the room people nod) It isn't even hate, really. It's more the way we feel when a rat runs across the floor. We want to step on it. Crush it. We don't even know why. It's a physical reaction. Everyone feels it. 
 Which ones would you kill? 
 Prominent Jews. Who are either symbols in themselves or who represent aspects of the Jewish character people despise. 
 Such as? 
 Barbra Streisand. 
 Too obvious. 
 Kissinger...Dershowitz...Roseanne... 
 Yes. And Larry King... 
 Is he Jewish? 
 ...Leona Helmsley, Michael Eisner, Bob Dylan, Phillip Roth, Ruth Bader Ginsberg, Steven Spielberg, Winona Ryder, Beverly Sills, Alvin Toffler, Katherine Graham. All of them. But not yet. We don't want celebrity obscuring the issue. 
 Which is what? 
 At first, no one will know why the victims are being killed. 
 You wouldn't announce it? 
 I'd say nothing. After two or three, people will try to find a pattern. A reason. 
 But when it comes out, the public will be outraged. It will look like Germany all over again. 
 Isn't that what we want? Germany all over again? Only done right this time... 
 Without speeches or political parties. A movement without leaders so that no one can stop it... 
 Okay, let's break this up for now.... (to Danny) Could you wait a minute...? 
 (low) ...I thought we agreed, no anti- Semitism...it's exactly what we're trying to put behind us.... Trash the blacks, fine; but... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Did you see how they reacted to him? 
 Yes, of course. But that only plays in this room, with people who aren't embarrassed to call themselves Nazis. If you want a modern fascism, you don't mention Jews. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS It's a romantic movement, Curtis. It always has been. 
 Lina, the Thousand-Year Reich barely lasted a decade.... Do you really want to go down that road again? In America of all places, where obedience and discipline are not exactly the national virtues... 
 He's very bright. 
 He speaks well. But what do we do with him? 
 Let's find out who he is. 
 You mean who he really is. 
 You're not in school? What do you do? 
 I work at the Big Boy warehouse. In Queens. I drive a fork-lift. 
 Where'd you read all that stuff? 
 I just read it.... 
 Young man... 
 Lina Moebius. And you are...? 
 Daniel Balint. 
 Balint? 
 It's German. 
 I was going to ask you the same thing. 
 So what are you really after, Daniel?... Do you just want to kill Jews, or do you have something larger in mind? 
 Without blood -- a willingness to spill it -- there's no real power, no authority. 
 (pleased by this) Curtis is afraid you'll marginalize us. 
 We're already marginal. We are saying what no one else has the guts to say. Isn't that precisely our appeal? 
 So what Jew would you kill first? 
 Ilio Manzetti...former ambassador to France. Managing partner at Damon, Schwarzchild. 
 (to Lina, explaining) An investment banking house. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS He's Jewish? Manzetti? 
 Totally. The family emigrated from Bulgaria when he was eleven. 
 How would you kill him? 
 I'd have to research it, study his routines, his security.... But ideally on a New York street at midday, using a small-caliber automatic without a silencer. 
 Why no silencer? 
 You want it to be an event. 
 Danny, why don't you come visit us in the country. We have young men with lots of energy and no ideas. Maybe you could give them something to think about.... Bring your friends, if you like.... 
 Bring your friends.... We're not his friends. 
 Then I won't bring you.... 
 
. 
 (O.S.) Hey, bonehead...get your moon ass off the street. 
 Why don't you go back to Rwanda and give each other AIDS. 
 What, do you like it here? 
 Read Mein Kampf? Hitler had all his best ideas in prison. 
 I'm not leaving without them. 
 Can I use a credit card? 
 He should go to a hospital. 
 You coming? 
 (glances at Carla, stays in the car) We'll go to the country sometime, okay? 
 Fucking Danny, man... 
 He's an asshole. 
 "...und die Worte zerfielen mir im Munde wie modrige Pilze..." 
 "And the words fell apart in my mouth like moldering mushrooms..." 
 How come so many of the books are in Spanish? 
 They're my father's. He's from Argentina. My mother's family went there during the war. That's where they met. 
 Are they still together? 
 He's in a mental institution.... He's been there for ten years, off and on. Mostly on. 
 Is he a Nazi? 
 I guess. His parents are. He doesn't care about that. 
 What's he care about? 
 Killing himself. 
 You think people ever commit suicide out of happiness? 
 That's stupid. Why would they? 
 You're not like the others, are you?... Your friends. 
 Yes, I am. Basically I am. 
 Hurt me. 
 Ow! That's too hard. 
 Do it again.... 
 Get up...you gotta go. 
 No, you have to leave. I've got to write a paper. (slaps his stomach hard) Out! 
 (O.S.) Bring the paper, too. 
 I knocked, you didn't answer. 
 What are you doing here? 
 I just came to get some stuff. I'll be out in five minutes. (off her) He doesn't want me around. 
 He's going to die. (as Danny looks away) He won't take his medicine. He eats dairy. He probably still smokes when I'm not around. (off Danny's helpless gesture) I asked him to come live with us. Alex offered to share his room, unsolicited.... But he didn't want to be any trouble. 
 Then he couldn't be bitter about living alone. 
 Why deprive him of his greatest pleasure? 
 Ah, Jesus Christ, Danny, how can you wear that thing?... You know what it means? To your people... 
 They're not my people.... 
 Tell it to Hitler. 
 Oh, he decides? Hitler's the chief rabbi now?... 
 Is this because of those kids who used to beat you up? 
 What kids?... 
 The Polacks? From Sacred Heart? 
 Nobody ever beat me up. (as she sighs, turns to go) Look, Linda, there're fifty reasons. Even if you knew them all, there'd be another fifty you didn't know. 
 Do you know them? (off him) I made him some noodles for dinner. You can heat them up and -- 
 I've got to get back to the -- 
 You can heat them up and eat with him. 
 It's Friday.... 
 (a hoarse rasp) Do I give a shit? 
 The Torah says not to light a fire on the Sabbath, because it's work, correct? (Danny sighs) But if alternating current's running through the wires every second of every day, and I throw a switch, send it here instead of there, how is that lighting a fire? 
 "Do chickens give milk?" 
 Exactly. 
 Who's this? 
 Dennis Leary. 
 Leary? 
 No. 
 (offering consolation) Howard Stern. 
 Obviously. 
 Adam Sandler. 
 Funny? 
 Not like Mr. Dorfmann. 
 He was funny. 
 After your mother died, that's when you stopped going to shul. Doing your homework. Everything. 
 And that's when the Mets started to stink. 
 'Cause they got rid of Johnson. He knew how to deal with the assholes. Dallas Green, please... 
 Valentine... 
 There's some maple walnut in the freezer. 
 Linda says you're not supposed to have dairy. 
 Just a little... What's the difference? 
 Yeah?... Hold on.... It's for you. 
 Hello...? 
 Daniel Balint? My name's Guy Danielsen. I'm a reporter with the New York Times. 
 (impressed, suspicious) New York Times...? 
 I'm doing a piece on right-wing groups, post Oklahoma City. I hear you're an important figure in those circles. You have a lot of interesting ideas.... 
 Who told you that? 
 Isn't it true? 
 No, it's...yeah, it's true, but... how'd you get this number?... No, not here... Maybe Sunday? There's a place off Queens Blvd. Near the courthouse... 
 Danny...Guy Danielsen... 
 (sardonic, now he gets it) You... 
 Milk...? 
 Is it okay if I record this? 
 No... Yeah, fine, go ahead... So what's this about? Is this about me? 
 I'm trying to figure out where the radical right is going to next....I thought you were the most interesting person at that meeting. 
 What about Curtis Zampf? 
 Curtis is a politician -- and a bit of a hustler. He's not a thinker. 
 I agree. 
 The other night you said the modern world is a Jewish disease. Could you elaborate on that? 
 In the movement -- the racialist movement -- we believe there's a hierarchy of the races. Not just in IQ, but in the civilization, the art, the forms of government, the civilizations that each race produces... Why are you writing this down if you're recording it? 
 It helps me concentrate.... So does that mean you're a white supremacist? 
 What should I be, a white inferior- ist? A multicultural Zulu egalitarian? Let me ask, where are your people from? 
 My mother's family is French, my father's was German, originally. 
 German. Mine, too. So who do you think's given more to the world, the Germans -- Beethoven, Goethe, Nietzsche -- or the entire continent of Africa? Ibos, Bantus, Mandingos... 
 Danny, what about the Jews? 
 The Jews are different.... Blacks are disgusting and inferior, but it's like criticizing a retarded child. The Jews are...a poison in the human well.... 
 A poison...? 
 Let me give you an example.... Sexuality. 
 Sexuality??? What do you mean? 
 You ever fuck a Jewish girl? 
 What??!? 
 Did you ever fuck one, Guy? 
 (laughing, embarrassed) What's that go to do with...I've gone out with a, with Jewish women. Why? 
 And? WHat did you notice? 
 Notice? Like what...? 
 Jewish girls like to give head, right? 
 I don't know. Is that right? 
 And Jewish men like to get it. 
 Everybody likes to, don't they? 
 Yes. It's very pleasurable. But the Jews are obsessed with it. You know why? 
 Why? 
 Because the Jew is essentially female. 
 Female... 
 Real men -- white, Christian men -- we fuck a woman. We make her come with our cocks. But the Jew doesn't like to penetrate and thrust -- he can't assert himself that directly -- so he resorts to perversions. Oral sex is technically a perversion, you know that, don't you? (as Guy nods) After a woman has been with a Jewish man, she never wants a normal partner again. A normal man. 
 Does that mean the Jew is the better lover? 
 You're not listening. He isn't better. He gives pleasure, but that's actually a weakness. 
 Danny, what makes you think you know all this? 
 Let's just say I've done due diligence. 
 So, fine, it's not that the Jew, the Jews own the media and the banks. It's that they're sexually corrupt. 
 The Jews clearly control the media and the banks. Investment banks, not the commercial ones. But the point is they carry out in those realms the same principles they display in sexuality. They undermine traditional life; they deracinate society. 
 Deracinate... Tear out the roots. A people -- a real people -- derives its genius from the land: the sun, the sea, the soil. This is how they know themselves. But the Jew doesn't have soil. 
 He has Israel. 
 Those aren't Jews. 
 Of course they're Jews. 
 Notice the Israelis: a fundamentally secular society. They no longer need Judaism because they have soil. The real Jew is a wanderer, a nomad. He has no roots, no attachments. So he "universalizes" everything. He can't hammer a nail, plow a field. He can only buy and sell, invest capital, manipulate markets. He takes the life of a people rooted in soil and turns it into a cosmopolitan culture based on books, ideas, numbers. This is his strength.... (pumped; this is what he loves) Take the great Jewish minds: Marx, Freud, Einstein. What have they given us: communism, infantile sexuality and the atom bomb. In a mere three centuries since these guys emerged from the ghettos of Europe, they've taken us from a world built on order and reason and hurled us into a chaos of class warfare, irrational urges and relativity, a world where the very existence of matter and meaning is in doubt. Why? Because it is the deepest impulse of the Jewish soul to unravel the very fabric of life until nothing is left but thread, nothing but nothingness. Nothingness without end... 
 Are all Jews the same? 
 Differences exist, of course, but they're irrelevant. For the Jew, his Jewishness dominates everything. Even the ones who renounce it, who hate it, who want to cut it out of their hearts a knife...can't escape. They're still just Jews. 
 Danny, this is great. You're incredibly articulate. One more thing... How can you believe this when you're a Jew yourself? 
 What? Excuse me?... (Guy says nothing) You're kidding, right? 
 Do you know Rabbi Stanley Nadelman? He used to be at Congregation Beth Elohim in Ozone Park...? 
 Who? How would I know him? 
 He says you were bar mitzvahed there, in March 1988. 
 You believe that? And you call yourself a reporter? 
 So you're saying it's not true. 
 Look at me.  DO I look Jewish?  Look... 
 Were you ever bar mitzvahed anywhere else? 
 Do you know who you're fucking with here? 
 That's what I'm trying to find out, Danny. Who am I fucking with here? 
 (sputtering, unsure what to say) Listen to me.... 
 Why would Nadelman lie? 
 To discredit me. Because I know who they are. Look, I thought I explained it to you. Those people can say or do anything. And they will. It's all narrative to them, it's... Are you going to print what this guy said? 
 Give me a reason not to. 
 It's slander. It's reckless disregard. I'll sue you and your fucking Jew paper. 
 Does that mean you deny what he says is true? Yes or no. 
 Look at me. Look at me, Guy.... Oh, now you can't look at me? Look at me, you schmuck. Look at me.... (pokes the gun in Guy's face) You print that shit in the New York Times...I'll kill myself. 
 Do we have to listen to this shit? 
 Yes. 
 Why'd we have to leave so fast? 
 Danny's running from the law. 
 O.L., how come your mother gives you a car when you're too fucking blind to drive? 
 Hey, O.L., assholes at four o'clock. 
 I thought there were people here.... 
 I'll go look.... 
 Yeah, you better stay here and guard it. 
 We're from New York. Curtis Zampf invited us. 
 Who?... Curtis who? 
 
 Enough? 
 Which was his room? 
 (ferrety, glasses) Number ten. 
 Yeah, I'm trying to reach Carla, is she?... Did she get my other message?... No, I'll call back.... 
 Fucking niggers... Fucking niggers? Fucking gooks!... 
.... 
 ...Look, if Hitler had knocked out the RAF in '39, which he could easily, easily have done, he'd have taken England, and the U.S. wouldn't have had -- 
 ...A staging ground for the invasion, yeah. But he blew it going after civilian targets. Just like he blew the Russian front, diverting supplies to Auschwitz.... 
 Where's Mrs. Moebius? 
 Her place is down the road. But she just comes out for weekends sometimes. 
 What is this, Stalingrad? 
 Gettysburg. But we're refighting it with World War I technology. It's a fucking bloodbath. 
 That was unbelievable what you did to Lucas. The guy's an animal. 
 You could do it. 
 Get out of here.... 
 You look right through him. He's there, but there's something on the other side of him that you want. It's all you want. And whatever's in the way doesn't matter.... Then it's easy. 
 Either of you know anything about explosives? 
 (O.S.) Take a breath, let out a little, relax, then squeeze. (a RIFLE SHOT; nothing's hit) Again... 
 Which one were you aiming at? 
 The mother. 
 
 Carla?... It's me, Danny...Danny Balint...? We met at that...[meeting at your house.] 
 CARLA'S VOICE Yeah, I remember.... Kill any Jews yet? 
 I didn't realize you cared. 
 CARLA'S VOICE I don't. I was just curious how full of shit you were. 
 Did you know that there was a New York Times reporter there that night? 
 CARLA'S VOICE Really, which one? I bet it was the guy with the Prada shoes. 
 I didn't notice his shoes.... Did your mother know he was there? 
 CARLA'S VOICE I doubt it. How did you find out? 
 He called me up. He wanted to talk to me about my ideas. 
 I bet. He didn't realize that nobody who talks such a good game ever plays one. 
 You weren't complaining about my play last time. 
 CARLA'S VOICE That's a much easier game. 
 Why don't you come visit, we'll have a rematch. 
 Too many good players down here. I'm with one right now. 
 Oh, really? 
 Bigger and better. 
 Then how come you're talking to me? 
 CARLA'S VOICE I'm not. 
 Gas Chamber... 
 (to the whole room) When are we going to do something? 
 You know what you want? 
 We sure do. 
 Ham and cheese on white. 
 (forbearance) We don't have ham. We don't have cheese. 
 What the hell do you have? 
 That's what the menus are for. 
 I said: no cheese. 
 This is a kosher restaurant. We don't serve meat with dairy. 
 What about chicken? 
 That's meat. 
 The Bible only says don't seethe a kid in its mother's milk. But chickens don't give milk. 
 Look, you want cheese, go someplace else. 
 But it's stupid, right? You admit it's stupid. 
 No, I don't admit it's stupid. 
 You can have chicken with eggs but not with milk. Why is that? 
 I'm not here to talk about religious law, if you don't like -- 
 But you already talked about it: you said it's not stupid. Why isn't it stupid? 
 (calling the other Waiter) Steve... 
 Steve's going to explain it. 
 We have a problem here? 
 We sure fucking do. We don't understand why you can't eat chicken with milk. It doesn't make sense. 
 (an intellectual) Religion isn't about making sense. It's about -- 
 It's about the incomprehensible, Steve, not the idiotic. 
 Fuck you. 
 That explains it! Now we understand! 
 ...As the altercation appears to have been instigated equally on both sides, prison terms strike the court as excessive. 
 However, the defendants' political views suggest that they might profit from contact with members of our community whose experiences differ from their own.... 
 (O.S.) (Rumanian accent, uninflected) ...When I refused to have sex with him, the warden had my sister, Esther, executed in front of the entire block.... 
 ...Everyone considered it my fault. After that, of course, I did anything he wanted. 
 Why didn't he just rape you? 
 I hear one more remark like that, we go back to the court for resentencing. 
 He was a pig, like you, so perhaps he had no taste. 
 Sit down, please. (as Billings sits) Thank you, Mrs. Cohen. Mr Liebowitz, you indicated you had a story you wanted to tell.... 
 (O.S.) ...The man was afraid to let us hide on his farm any longer, but he agreed to take us to a more remote place. On the way he was stopped at a checkpoint, and when the soldiers found us in the hay, one of them grabbed my son out of my arms. He began to cry, so I reached for him, not to take him back, simply... 
 ...simply to assure him I was there. But the sergeant became enraged.... He stuck his bayonet in my son's chest, and lifted him up, impaled on it. My son was three years old.... 
 ...He held him up so that the blood spurting out of him feel on my face.... The soldiers were laughing. 
 (O.S.) When the blood stopped, the sergeant pushed my son off the bayonet and said, "There, you can have him now...." 
 And what did you do? 
 What are you trying to say? 
 What did you do while the sergeant was killing your son? 
 Forget it, Danny, it's all bullshit. 
 Wait a second... 
 (to Billings) Shut up. (to man, mid-70s) What did you do? 
 What could he have done? 
 What could he have done?? You fucking kikes... 
 You can't say that.... 
 The Nazi's killing his kid. He could've jumped the guy. He could've gouged his eyes out, grabbed the bayonet and gutted him.... What would you have done if they were killing your son? 
 (to Danny) Please sit down. 
 SO THEY SHOT HIM! SO HE WAS DEAD. SO WHAT. HE'S WORSE THAN DEAD NOW. HE'S A PIECE OF SHIT... 
 Okay, that's it. You're going back to -- 
 (over him, to Polish man) What do you think you should have done? 
 And you, you think you know what you would have done? You have no idea. You can't even imagine what that was like. And you never will.... 
 Don't listen to them, Danny. It's all a bunch of crap. 
 What is crap? 
 The so-called Holocaust. It never happened. It's the hoax of the twentieth century. 
 (disgusted with this idiocy) Oh, please... 
 Danny, it's true. There were no six million. At most, two hundred thousand Jews died in the camps. And the majority of them were from disease and -- 
 Where did you read this? Robert Faurisson? 
 (surprised he knew) Yeah. He's a respected scholar. Even No-am Chomsky says he -- 
 Billings, if Hitler didn't kill six million, why is he your hero?... Concentration camps all over Europe, and he only gets rid of a measly two hundred thousand.... He's a putz. 
 Hitler was not a putz. Hitler was real. God created him to punish the Jews for abandoning God. 
 It is you who are putzes. Little pishas with your dreams of hatred and killing... 
 Where do you think you're going? 
 ...We have nothing to learn from these people. They should learn from us. 
 And what should we learn from you, Daniel? 
 Kill your enemy. 
 What is it? 
 Green dot -- shotgun powder. For pipe bombs. (off Danny's reaction, smiles) A guy in a lumberyard gave it to me. A donation to the cause. 
 (O.S.) Hey, Danny.... Guess who's here.... (as Danny quickly slams the trunk) Your girlfriend... She's up at the house. 
 My L's keep coming out as C's.... 
 (spots Danny) The prisoner returns.... 
 Danny, get a drink and come talk to me. 
 ...Insulting people who were in the camps. ...What's the point? 
 They're liars and cowards. 
 I'm sure they are. But what do we accomplish by pointing it out? 
 It's the truth.... 
 Danny, what do you think of our troops? 
 (trying to be diplomatic) They have guts. And they know what they hate...which is good. But they have no idea why; they don't think, they don't read.... They're on beer and crank half the time.... 
 The young people in this country... They're like pigs; all they want is happiness.... But one needs pigs sometimes. (as it RINGS again; to Carla) Liebchen... 
 Do you feel you're making progress here? 
 You mean Ilio Manzetti? 
 Forget Manzetti.... Take on something simple. Something you can actually accomplish. (to Curtis) Maybe he'd be more valuable in the city. 
 An urban type. 
 (O.S.) Danny...telephone. 
 He's mad, Lina, you know that. 
 Hello? 
 WOMAN'S VOICE You know what today is? 
 Linda... How did you get this number? 
 LINDA'S VOICE It's Mom's yartzeit. 
 How did you get the fucking number? 
 LINDA'S VOICE I want you to say kaddish for her. It's the only thing she asked from us.... 
 I don't do that. 
 LINDA'S VOICE You do it on the inside.... 
 Don't tell me what I -- 
 LINDA'S VOICE ...I want you to do it on the outside, too. 
 No! 
 LINDA'S VOICE Yes! 
 Who's Linda? 
 (dropping the Times) Why won't you talk to me? 
 I'm talking to you right now. Who's Linda? 
 When can I see you? 
 You can't. 
 (O.S.) (in German) Carla, it's time to leave. 
 I have to go visit my father. 
 Your father?? 
 He's at a home out here. 
 I'm coming to your room tonight. 
 No. 
 (O.S.) Carla! 
 Just after midnight. Five past... But don't come through the house, they'll hear you. I'm in the back bedroom, second floor. Climb onto the kitchen roof, I'll leave the window open. 
 Shabbat shalom. 
 (O.S.) (in rough unison) Ba-yom, ha-hoo, ba-yom, ha hoo...(etc.) 
 Is anything wrong? 
 Shut the fuck up. 
 ...Harriet Kantor Balint... 
 DANNY & OTHERS Yis-ga-dal v'yis-ka-dash sh'may ra-bo... 
 (O.S.) May He cause the light of His countenance to shine upon you and be gracious unto you.... 
 (to himself) Eat shit.... 
 (O.S.) ...May you be blessed in your going forth as you were in your coming.... 
 (shouting to the empty street) EAT SHIT, ASSHOLES.... 
 (O.S.) And let us say... 
 RABBI & CONGREGATION (with organ; singsong) Ah -- ah -- ah....men.... 
 YOU EAT SHIT. 
 What are you reading? 
 Leo Strauss... (nods approvingly) I've got to go to Boston. I came to say goodbye. 
 What about Mrs. Moebius and...? 
 They left an hour ago. (off Danny's disappointment) You mind some personal advice? Forget Carla. That's not the side your bread's buttered on. (off Danny's silence) How soon can you get back to the city? 
 A week or so. There's something I want to do here first. 
 What's that? (off Danny's silence) Okay. Surprise us... 
 Jew World...!! 
 (to himself, barely a whisper) Shut up. Fuck you.... 
 (O.S.) What...? 
 Nothing. Where is it? (as Kyle hoists a sports bag) Okay, let's take one of these panels off so we can get under the bema...the stage. 
 (O.S.) Wow, look at this shit.... 
 What are they doing? 
 What are you doing? Put that down! ...Put it back in there. 
 What do you care? 
 I don't, but... 
 (vaults onto the stage) Let's look at the fucking thing. 
 Put it there, on the... 
 (indicating crowns, the yod...) Just be careful with the... 
 Open it up. 
 (impulsively taking over) Here... 
 Oooo... Weird... You read it from right to left.... The letters look like squashed bugs.... What kind of paper is that? 
 It's not paper, it's parchment. It's made from sheepskin. And all the letters are drawn by hand. 
 Neat calligraphy. 
 It's called the flame alphabet. It's supposed to be the word of God written in fire. 
 Fire... 
 The mystics tried to read the white spaces around the letters. They thought there was a whole alternative language hidden there, with secret, alternative meanings. 
 Cool. 
 How come you know all this shit? 
 How come you don't know it? (pressing the advantage) How can you say you hate the Jews when you don't know anything about -- 
 Fuck you. I hate the Jews at least as much as you do. 
 No, you don't.... If you hated them, you'd study them, so you'd know why you hate them. You know what tefillin is? Tsitsis? Shotness? You know the kaddish from the kiddush? (obviously not) Eichmann? He went to Israel. He studied the Torah, the Talmud, the Mishnah, the whole bit. He hated Jews. 
 Who's Eichmann? 
 Who's Eichmann?!!? 
 He was head of the Gestapo's Jewish sector. He deported people to the camps. 
 (reaching toward the parchment) Can we touch it? 
 Yeah, but not on the letters. 
 Why the fuck not? 
 (warning finger) Just don't. 
 Didn't you see Raiders of the Lost Ark? 
 What?? 
 That was an ark, man. That was a Torah. They fucked around with it, and the Torah melted their faces. 
 That's a movie, you moron. 
 Fine, go ahead. Touch the letters. 
 Let me see. 
 I said not on the -- 
 Stop it! What are you doing? 
 Let's get out of here. 
 Shema yisrael adonai elohenu adonai echod. 
 What'd you say? 
 Nothing. Let's go.... 
 Why are you taking that? 
 I'm stealing it. 
 A: 
 (V.O.) ...Tragedy was barely averted today at Temple Ahavat Torah when a bomb planted under the bema failed to detonate.... 
 (O.S.) Shit! 
 (V.O.) ...Authorities say that if it had, injuries and loss of life could have been in the dozens.... 
 Channel 8's Cindy Pomerantz spoke to Rabbi Malcolm Weiss. 
 (giving the finger to the TV) Oh, fuck you... 
 Okay, everybody out. Get out. 
 Alenu l'shab'ach la'adon hacol... 
 What? 
 (O.S.) Phone, Danny. 
 (tucks in the tallis fringes) What do you want? What happened to your article? 
 VOICE (DRAKE) Hey, Danny, want to kill a Jew? 
 Park up there, we'll walk back. 
 Lie on your stomach and come up on your elbows. 
 Why me? 
 You want to kill a Jew. I already did. 
 Who'd you kill? 
 Four. But no one this important. 
 Okay, it's over. He'll take a couple questions, then come out.... Sight down the rifle toward the door. 
 How did you know they were Jews? 
 I can tell.... 
 How? 
 I was a Jew in a previous life. 
 Here they come. 
 (O.S.) Shoot him in the head. Always shoot a Jew in the head. 
 I'm a bad shot. I don't think I can -- 
 (O.S.) Just get him in the cross-hairs. With those shells, anywhere you hit him, it'll bounce around, rip his insides all up. 
 (O.S.) Right there! Just squeeze he trigger. Slow... Do it! 
 You missed on purpose. 
 I didn't. I told you, I can't -- 
 What's that? 
 I knew it. 
 Oh, Jesus...Drake, are you okay...? 
 (V.O.) Kyle, it's me Danny. How you doing?... I had to come into the city to see Mrs. MOEBIUS... No, I gave Drake the van, didn't he bring it back? 
 ...Since when?... Really? And he didn't call?... No, I don't know... 
 Sure, come on down.... Can you bring my stuff?... Thanks...and if Drake shows up, let me know right away.... Good... 
 How have things been going? 
 (how much do they know?) Fine. 
 (indicates a chair) We want to talk to you about something.... (as they sit, Danny nervous) We're about to launch an aboveground, intellectually serious fascist movement. 
 We want to build bridges to certain positions in the political mainstream: works like The Bell Curve, Sociobiology, anti-Zionism, anti- immigration, the com-munitarian issue.... We'll hold conferences: invite liberals, blacks, Jews. Chomsky, Cockburn, Stanley Crouch, Shahack.... 
 I've been waiting all my life for something like this. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS We want you to help run it. Give speeches, lead seminars... Handle the fund-raising. 
 (slapped in the face) Fund-raising?? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS We think you'd be good at it. 
 What about...Manzetti, the synagogues.... 
 That doesn't seem to be happening, does it? 
 I've been stuck out in the country with those guys who just want to paint swastikas and heil Hitler. How am I supposed to -- (get anything done there?) 
 Danny, the night we met, you said the name Ilio Manzetti. We were impressed. We were excited. But here it is September, and Mr. Manzetti is still walking around breathing the air. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS We need intellectuals, we have enough thugs already. 
 I'm not an intellectual.... I mean, I read, but... Fund-raising isn't what I... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Look, if you want to kill Jews on your free time, fine. We need you to raise money. Will you do that for us? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Thank you. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Do you have a suit? (off Danny; to Curtis) Let's get him one.... And a cell phone too. (as Danny turns to go; a joke for her own amusement) And if you insist on blowing up a synagogue, make it that big one on Fifth Avenue, would you? 
 Beth Shalom? It's Reform. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS So what? 
 They're not that Jewish. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS I don't care what they are. I know those people, and I don't like them. The rest are just a bunch of kikes, aren't they? 
 Here... 
 Where'd you get this? 
 I stole it. From a synagogue. 
 How come there's no punctuation? 
 That was a later invention, it's not in the scrolls.... Anyway, the Jews know where the sentences end. They know the whole thing by heart. Every word. Every letter. 
 Do you know it like that? By heart. 
 No. 
 But you can read it, the Hebrew.... Right? 
 What do you care? 
 'Cause I want to know.... What is this word? This one here... 
 Va-yomer... And he said. (she moves her finger to the left) It goes the other way. 
 (she knew that) Oh, yeah... (moves finger right) 
 Va-yomer adonai el Avram: lech lecha mayartzcha oo-mimohlad-tcha oo-m'bayt avaycha el ha-ertez asher arecha... 
 What's it mean? 
 And God said to Avram, take yourself away from your land and from the place you were born and from your father's house into the land -- a different land -- and I will show you.... 
 I want to learn to read it. 
 Why? 
 Know your enemy.... 'Cause it's a basic text of Western culture. I want to read it in the original. Okay? 
 Hebrew's very difficult. It would take years. 
 I'm good at languages. 
 Put something on. You're not supposed to be naked in front of it. 
 Why not? 
 They think it's the word of God, and it's holy, and the flesh isn't.... 
 That's stupid. 
 Yeah, it's stupid. (indicating her T-shirt) Put it on, or I won't teach you. 
 See, the Jews love to separate things: the holy from the profane, milk from meat, wool from linen, the Sabbath from the week, the Jew from the gentile.... As if one little scrap of this was going to completely contaminate that. 
 What assholes. 
 You can't curse in front of it either. 
 Who gets contaminated, the Jews or the gentiles? 
 Good question. Both. (draws a letter) Aleph... 
 It looks a little like a swastika. 
 It's silent. It holds a place, takes a vowel. The vowels are little dots that go under the letters. 
 Where are they? 
 They don't put them in the Torah. I'll get you a chumash, they'll have them there...Bet...Gimel...Dalid...Hay... (as she repeats the names) How come you're here instead of with Curtis? Besides the Hebrew lessons... 
 The sex is better. 
 Even though his dick is so big? 
 With you there's a tragic dimension. 
 Vuv...Zayin...Chet...Tet... 
 This will be a different kind of device. 
 That damn thing. You know how it made me look...? 
 I'm sorry, Danny. It won't happen again. I'm going to use a brand-new power cell. Plus we'll have a back-up timer. 
 I've gotta kill some Jews, Kyle. I'm serious. I'm always talking about it. This time it's gotta happen. 
 It will. 
 What about Drake, did he ever show up? 
 No, it's weird, man. Nobody knows where he went. 
.... 
 (to the Sergeant, in German) Excuse me, I'm sorry, just a moment... 
 (in Polish) Please, sweetheart, you have to go. I'll see you soon. 
 Hey, Danny...Danny... 
 It's Stuart. Stuart Schoenbaum. 
 Shlomo? 
 Yeah... 
 Jeez, it's been since, what, Kenny's wedding. 
 Yeah, uh... So how are you? What's going on? 
 I'm in the rabbinic program at JTS... 
 
...? 
 What about you? What are you doing? Something strange, I bet. 
 I'm in a kind of...underground...thing. 
 (impressed, excited) Are you an artist? 
 No, no... Not that kind of... underground. More a private... business. Private. 
 You remember Miriam.... 
 Yeah, hey, how're you doing... 
 Hey... 
 She's at Yale Law -- interning with the district attorney... (Miriam makes a face) We're getting married next spring. In Israel. 
 Wow, that's uh...great... 
 It's great seeing you.... 
 Maybe Danny'd like to come to the minyan for the holidays.... 
 Oh, good idea. We're davening with this group from the seminary. Interesting people, very open-minded, you might like them. And guess who comes...Avi! You guys could go at it again like the good old days. 
 Danny and Avi used to argue about everything. Torah, Talmud, politics, girls. It always ended in a fistfight. 
 I remember. 
 I always won. 
 The arguments, anyway. 
 (hands Danny the address) It's a K.I. on 101st. In the little chapel. Try to make it. It'd be fun. 
 You write that? (as Danny nods) Come work for me. You've got a lot to learn; I can teach it to you. 
 I have a job. 
 This? This is a joke. (tossing down the pages) I'll give your group a thousand bucks. 
 You gave fifty thousand to that college magazine. 
 Fifty's an exaggeration. Anyway, that was a different moment. Things were possible that aren't now. 
 Actually, I think this moment has possibilities that -- 
 Yeah, I read your piece. It's very smart. And very wrong. 
 Forget the Jewish stuff. It doesn't play anymore. (over Danny's) There's only the market, now, and it doesn't care who you are. 
 People still need values, beliefs.... 
 No, they don't. Not the smart ones. (because he likes him) Look, I'll give you five grand if you can document your tax-exempt status.... But when you fall off this horse, come see me. I can show you how to make a lot of money. 
 I don't care about money. 
 You will. 
 You're a Jew. Maybe you don't realize it, but you are. 
 (smiles, uninsulted) Maybe I am. Maybe we're all Jews now. What's the difference? 
 How many of you think of yourselves as anti-Semites? (All the hands go up.) Good. Actually, the term is a bit imprecise since technically Jews are only one of the Semitic peoples.... In fact, Arabs are Semites, as are the Eritreans, the Ethiopians, and so on.... But for our purposes an anti- Semite is someone who hates or is against Jews.... Now, why do we hate them? 
 Let me put it another way. Do we hate them because they push their way in where they don't belong? Or because they're clannish and keep to themselves? 
 ...Because they're tight with money, or because they flash it around? Because they're Bolsheviks or because they're capitalists? Because they have the highest IQs, or because they have the most active sex lives? 
 Do you want to know the real reason we hate them?... 
 ...Because we hate them. (as people exchange puzzled looks) Because they exist. Because it is an axiom of civilization that just as man longs for woman, loves his children and fears death, he hates the Jews. (smiles) There is no reason. If there were, some smart-ass kike would give us an argument, try to prove we were wrong. And of course that would only make us hate them more. In fact we have all the reasons we need in three simple letters: J-E-W. Jew. Say it a million times. It is the only word that never loses its meaning: Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew.... 
 (sings, looking at watch) "My country 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I..." 
 B'Rosh Hashanah yika-teyvun, uv'yom tsom kippur yey-chateymun... 
 And it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham... 
 (O.S.) ...And said to him, "Abraham." And he said, "Here am I..." And God said, "Take your son, your only son, whom you love..." 
 (to himself) It's not his only son.... 
 The only one he loves. 
 They only kill them when they love them? 
 (sliding into a seat next to them) What are you doing here, I thought you were a Nazi. 
 Come on, Avi... 
 You know what this guy told me once: Islam and Judaism both start with Abraham murdering his son: first sending Ishmael into the desert, then sacrificing Isaac.... 
 Shhhh... Can you please be quiet? 
 And Christianity's the same, with minor variations. 
 Ridiculous. (to the people around them) Folks, don't listen to this guy. He's a well-known anti-Semite. 
 Avi, please... 
 (snatching off Danny's hat) ...Look, he's a skinhead. 
 It's just a style, Avi.... There are antiracist skins. 
 (laughing) Believe me, Danny's the racist kind. Are you a fascist, Danny? Yes or no. 
 What's a fascist? 
 I rest my case. He's a Jewish Nazi. He always was. 
 Whereas Avi's a Zionist Nazi. 
 The Zionists aren't Nazis. 
 They're racist, they're militaristic, they act like bullyboys in the territories.... 
 They don't have extermination camps. 
 They had Sabra and Shattila. 
 Do you hate them because they're wimps or because they're bullyboys? 
 (over her, to Danny) That was the Lebanese, that wasn't -- 
 (O.S.) The Israeli Army knew about the camps. Sharon encouraged the falangists to go in there and murder all the -- 
 You don't know that. There's no -- 
 Read the early Zionists on European Jewry; they sound like Goebbels. 
 They sound like you. 
 The Nazis did everything the führer told them. You do everything the Torah tells you. Or the rebbe. Identical slave mentality. 
 Why did you come tonight? To see me? 
 (after a beat) To hear them read Torah. 
 I thought you hated Torah. 
 That doesn't mean I don't like hearing it. 
 Point out all the lies and fucked-up thinking. 
 You know the joke: a Jew's shipwrecked on a desert island. When they rescue him, they see he's built two synagogues. They say, for vhat do you need two synagogues? He says, vun to pray in, and vun I'd never set foot in so long as I live, so help me God. (he nods, he's heard it) You pray in the one you'd never set foot in...and vice versa. 
 I can't help what I think. 
 This is me. 
 Tell me about Lina Moebius. 
 (startled) How did you...? 
 I work in the DA's office. You go to those meetings, half the people there are informants. 
 You mean the Times guy? 
 Which Times guy? 
 With the shoes... There was more than one? 
 Danny...Danny... (he doesn't look back) Shit... 
 (slowly, laboriously) Payn tash-chiton v'ashiytem... 
 (correcting her) V'asitem... 
 V'asitem lechem pessel to-monat. And make no graven image of the Lord, or the form of any figure, or of man or woman, or beast or fowl or fish or anything that looks like anything. Because He's not like anything. Not only can't you see Him or hear Him, you can't even think about Him. I mean, what's the difference between that and Him not existing? 
 (still exercising) No difference. 
 Christianity's silly, but at least there's something to believe in. Or not believe. Judaism there's nothing. 
 (to himself) Nothing but nothingness...Judaism's not about belief. 
 What's it about? 
 About doing things. You light candles, say prayers, keep the Sabbath, visit the sick.... 
 And belief follows? 
 No. Nothing follows. You don't do it because it's smart or stupid or it saves your soul. You're not saved. Nobody's saved. You do it because the Torah tells you do. You submit to the Torah. 
 Fuck that. 
 Don't curse in front of it. 
 (flips the book closed) Why should I submit? 
 You shouldn't. 
 You think I should just because there's no reason? 
 No, I think you shouldn't. 
 Judaism doesn't even need God. You have the Torah, the law. That's your fucking God.... (anticipating his objections) The book's closed. 
 You're learning the Hebrew really fast. 
 I told you, I'm good at this. 
 Plus you have nothing else to do all day. 
 Oh, am I learning it faster than you did? Maybe I'm smarter. 
 Is that funny? You think Jews are the only smart ones? 
 What...? You think I'm Jewish? 
 It's all you talk about. Jewish, Jewish, Jewish. Nobody talks about it that much except the Jews. 
 Nazis talk about it all the time. 
 Do they? 
 The real Nazis. Hitler, Goebbels, they talked about Jews incessantly.... You ever read their diaries?... 
 Is that why you became a Nazi? So you could talk about Jews incessantly? 
 Believe me, Adolf Hitler couldn't possibly have hated the Jews as much as I do. Not in a billion years. You know why? 
 'Cause he wasn't a rabbi. 
 You want a punch in the mouth? 
 Okay... (he doesn't hit her) Why don't we light candles on Friday? Let's light candles.... And say the kaddish. 
 Kaddish is the prayer for the dead. 
 I mean kiddush. Let's say kiddush. And shave my head, fuck through a sheet, all that stuff... (as he walks away) Come on, just for fun. To see what it's like... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Half the right-wing money in New York is here tonight. They came to see you. If you impress them, if you do what I know you can, this movement will be up and running by tomorrow. And on the front page of the New York Times in six months. 
 We tested the new bomb. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS What? 
 We redesigned the timing mechanism. It can't possibly malfunction. 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Danny, please. Just give your speech.... And nothing about Jews, okay? 
 Shema yisroel adonai elohenu adonai echod. 
 Who knows what that is? 
 A Jewish prayer. 
 Can anybody imagine why I would say a Jewish prayer? 
 Because you're a Jew. 
 That could be one reason. What's another? (no response) Let me put it this way...who here would like to destroy the Jews? (murmurs of approval) Who wants to grind their bones into the dust? 
 And who wants to see them rise again, wealthier, more successful, powerful, cultured and intelligent than ever? 
 Then you know what you have to do?... You have to love them. 
 Did he say love them? Love the Jews? It sounds strange, I know, but with these people nothing is simple. The Jew says that all he wants is to be left alone to study his Torah, do a little business and fornicate with his over-sexed wife.... But it isn't true. He wants to be hated. He longs for our scorn. He clings to it as if it were the very core and mystery of his being. If Hitler had not existed, the Jews would have invented him. For without such hatred, the so-called Chosen People would vanish from the earth.... 
 ...And this reveals a terrible truth, the crux of our problem as Nazis: the worse the Jews are treated, the stronger they become. Egyptian slavery made them a nation; the pogroms hardened them, Auschwitz gave birth to the State of Israel. Suffering, it seems, is the very crucible of their genius. If the Jews are, as one of their own has said, a people who will not take yes for an answer, then let us say yes to them. If they thrive on opposition, let us cease to oppose them. The way to annihilate them, utterly and completely, is to open our arms, take them into our homes and embrace them. Only then will they vanish into assimilation, dilution...and love. (a warning finger) But we cannot pretend. The Jew is nothing if not clever. He will see through condescension and hypocrisy. To destroy him, we will have to love him sincerely. 
 But if the Jews are strengthened by hate, wouldn't this "destruction" you speak of -- by love or by any other means -- in fact make them more powerful than they are already? 
 (after a beat) Yes. Infinitely more. They would become as God. 
 It is the Jews' destiny to the annihilated so that they can be deified.... (the murmurs swell) Jesus understood this perfectly. And look what was accomplished there with the death of just one enlightened Jew. Imagine what would happen if we killed them all!! (over the rising outrage) So, let us say together... Shema yisroel... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Are you out of your mind?! 
 I was just trying to make a point. If -- 
 (O.S.) Oh, my God... (calling) Lina... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS I'm relieving you of all duties. I don't want you working for us anymore.... 
 You can't. Do you know how many people I've brought into...the movement...? 
 (O.S.) Lina, come here! 
 (O.S.) According to police, he had just left the restaurant and was walking the block and a half back to his office, when the gunman stepped out of this doorway, fired seven times at point- blank range...then fled on foot. 
 (a terrible premonition) Who was it? 
 (O.S.) ...Paramedics arrived within ninety seconds, but Mr. Manzetti was declared dead at the scene. 
 ANCHOR'S VOICE Ilio Manzetti was one of the respected and influential men in New York. As an investment banker, diplomat, adviser to presidents and mayors, he helped shape public policy and private finance for more than three decades. He'll be missed, Phil. This is Michael Port with New York 1. 
 (stunned) Do you think I... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Danny, please, we don't want to know. 
 ANCHOR'S VOICE The assailant is described as a white male in his late 20s.... 
 Kyle...I can't talk right now.... 
 Did you kill Ilio Manzetti? 
 No. 
 Not the camera, don't hurt the camera... 
 Did you kill him? 
 Two days ago you addressed a Nazi rally. Last week you went to a Torah study group. 
 What were you, following me? 
 How do you reconcile the two? 
 I don't. Look, stay out of what you don't understand. 
 Explain it so I can. 
 You work for the New York Times. Your whole job in life is not to understand things like me. 
 I don't think you know what you are. 
 (walking on, fast) Yeah, and what are you? A Times man? A Presbyterian? Impotent? A prick? 
 Who killed Manzetti? 
 If I tell you, will you pull the story? Not write about me? 
 It's too late.... If I didn't, somebody else would. (as Danny just snorts) Yom Kippur starts at sundown. Will you go to synagogue? 
 (turns on him, threatening) Get the fuck away from me. 
 Hey, Danny, just one more! 
 You're telling me you killed him? You? Killed him? Bullshit. What kind of gun did you use? 
 (guessing) A forty-five. 
 It was a nine millimeter. 
 You're lying. 
 So are you... But they'll believe you.... (as they walk) Lina Moebius is saying the whole thing was your idea. That you proposed it in a meeting at her house. (when he doesn't deny it) Ah, Jesus, Danny... What were you thinking? Are you glad Manzetti's dead? Do you really want to kill Jews? You want to kill me? 
 I was just talking. I -- look, I can't help what I think. 
 All right, what if all along you were actually infiltrating the Nazis -- to expose them.... 
 But I wasn't. 
 And only talked about killing Manzetti to convince them you were an anti-Semite. If you'd had any idea somebody would take it seriously, you never would have said it. 
 I can't say that. 
 Think about your father. Your sister. 
 The truth doesn't mean anything to you, does it? 
 Danny, I'm trying to -- save you. 
 (over her) Fucking kike. 
 Try to get Lina Moebius on tape, telling you to do something. Something violent... That's right, I don't care about truth. I care about you. (looks at her watch) Kol Nidre's at six-thirty. I've got to meet Stuart. We'll be at the minyan tonight and tomorrow. If you need me, come there.... 
 What's going on? 
 It's erev Yom Kippur.... We'll have dinner, then go to shul. Atone for our sins. 
 Come on, we can be like Eichmann. He studied Torah. He hated Jews. 
 (in the closet, looking) Is it like Eichmann? Are we goofing? 
 I don't know. I just want to try it. 
 Shit... (looking in other places) Did you talk to your mother today? 
 No. What are you looking for? 
 Nothing. (indicates table as he keeps looking) Why are you doing this? (back to the closet) I thought God didn't exist. 
 He commands it whether He exists or not... (off his silence; with difficulty) Look, we can fight him and be crushed. Or we can submit. 
 (from the closet) And be crushed. 
 Yeah, okay. But what if...what if... submitting...being crushed, being nothing, not mattering, what if that's the best feeling we can have? 
 Look, just light the candles with me. Then we'll eat. You have to eat. 
 You eat first, then you light. (exasperated, he has to explain) Once you light, it's Yom Kippur, which means you're fasting, so you can't...eat. 
 A woman of valor, who can find her? Her price is above rubies.... 
 Miriam, it's me, Danny.... Come on, the holiday hasn't started, pick up the -- (as someone does) ...Is Stuart davening Ne'ilah tomorrow at the minyan... 'Cause he always does... Tell him I'm doing it instead.... 
 Miriam, I'm davening.... He gives me any trouble, I'll beat the shit out of him right there in the room. I'm serious.... 
 Why didn't you tell us? 
 (never considered it) I was hurt. I just... 
 He went to his friends' place and I laid up there 'til he was better. Then he called me. 
 You should've gone to the police. 
 I don't think Drake wants to talk to the police. Do you? 
 I'll take care of him myself. 
 Daniel Balint. 
 (takes the phone) Hello...? 
 Lina... It's happening. Tonight. 
 What is happening? 
 Beth Shalom. Like you wanted. 
 Beth Shalom? What are you talking about? Who is this...? 
 Lina, you said if I was going to plant a bomb, I should -- 
 (in German, to his fellows) Kill him! 
 How're we doing? 
 That's all we've got left. 
 It'll be enough if we use it right. (checks his watch) Okay, the service'll go about another hour. Say an hour for the janitors, then one more just to be safe... We'll go in at midnight. 
 Didn't you get anything? 
 I'm not hungry.... Come on, let's drive around.... We don't want to be spotted here. 
 (white with fury) He is trying to set us up. 
 (to Drake and Billings) I want him dead by tomorrow night. That lies within your capacities, correct? 
 (into phone) Yes, I believe that a bomb is going to be planted tonight at Temple Emanu-el on 65th Street.... By the same man who killed Ilio Manzetti... His name is Daniel Balint.... 
 (V.O.) Oh, what is this shit? 
 (V.O.) Keep driving. Don't slow down. 
 (V.O.) Christ... 
 (V.O.) Not too fast. 
 (V.O.) You said they didn't have night guards. 
 (V.O.) They don't. I checked twenty times.... Somebody must have talked. 
 (V.O.) Who even knew? 
 (V.O.) Mrs. Moebius. 
 (V.O.) Why? Why would she? 
 (V.O.) The Manzetti thing must have scared her. She thinks she'll get implicated. 
 (V.O.) So what do we do with the device? 
 (V.O.) Take a right on 59th... (as the car turns) We'll put it someplace else. 
 (V.O.) Where? 
 I have an idea.... 
 (V.O.) Over here. 
 It's all reinforced in here. It's not going to blow out the way we want it.... 
 If I went back to the lumberyard, the guy'd give me all the dynamite I wanted. Untraceable, you wouldn't -- need to... 
 No, it has to be tomorrow. You won't get this many of them in here for another year. It'll be fine. 
 It's not going to be fine. It's -- 
 Just do it. 
 What's that? 
 It's just somebody on the street. 
 When do you want it to go off? 
 Seven-thirty tomorrow evening. 
 So that's what? Nineteen thirty minutes...what time is it now... 
 ...You're saying that when he first appeared at your house, you had no idea he was Jewish.... 
 MRS. MOEBIUS None whatsoever. But I have to admit, I'm not terribly surprised. 
 What do you mean? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS I think anti-semitism today is largely a Jewish phenomenon. Wouldn't you agree? 
 In the Third Reich, weren't a number of high-ranking Nazis of Jewish origin? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS Yes, and they were said to be the most virulent proponents of the Final Solution. Really, who but a Jew would want to kill Ilio Manzetti simply because he was Jewish? Who thinks about such things? 
 The papers are going to report tomorrow that your colleague, Curtis Zampf, has been a federal informant for the past two years. Do you believe that? 
 MRS. MOEBIUS (enigmatic smile) Curtis is always more complicated than he seems. Even now. 
 (to the camera) And so, on this, the most solemn day of the Jewish year, a former yeshiva student is being sought in connection with a monstrous hate crime that -- 
 Gamar tov. 
 ...They cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah... 
 AUDITORIUM -- DAY 
 (desperate whisper) What are you doing here? 
 Miriam called, looking for you. She said you might come, so I... 
 You gotta get out of here. 
 You don't own this place. 
 Listen, Danny, you can't just barge in and -- 
 Shut up... 
 You shut up. Who do you think you are? 
 (to Carla, low, urgent) There's a bomb here. It's going to go off at seven-thirty. 
 Oh, please... 
 It's Yom Kippur.... People are davening.... Can you take it outside.... You have some nerve.... 
 Danny, listen, people expect me to daven; they don't want someone they don't know -- leading their prayers. 
 Get out of my way. 
 What's going on?... Who is this?...I thought Stuart was davening.... 
 (to the room) Page 766. 
 Yis-gadal, v'yis-kadash sh'mey raba... 
 Jesus Christ, you know who that is?... You see the paper? 
 (O.S.) (gently teasing) You're reading the paper on Yom Kippur, Barry? 
 I saw the paper. That's not him, that guy was darker.... This is somebody else. 
 (O.S.) That guy wouldn't go to shul, Barry... 
 You want to bet? I'll bet you anything... (he's SHUSHED, "Could you, please...") Let's go, we're leaving.... 
 Oh, for God's sake, you leave. 
 I'm going to get a cop. 
 Da-amiran b'alma, v'imru amen... 
 I got one.... 
 Are you kidding me?? 
 Now do you know where he is? 
 Yeah, I bet I do. 
 Wait a minute... 
 Stop praying. You've got to get out of here.... All of you... 
 You wanted to daven. Now daven.... 
 (panic, confusion) Who's that?... What is he...oh, my God... 
 (calm, forceful) Put down the weapon. Put it down.... 
 Drake! Up here... 
 See, he knows him. The Nazi bastard... 
 (to Carla, Miriam, Stuart) Get everybody out of here. Fast. 
 Drake... 
 Avinu malkenu, choney-nu v'aneyenu... Avinu malkenu, choney-nu v'aneyenu, ki eyn banu ma-asim... (Our father, out king, graciously answer us though we are undeserving...) -- nu va-aneynu... 
 Drake, I'm right here.... 
 (from the door) Let them kill each other. They're animals. 
 Barry, for God's sake... 
 Danny! 
 GET HER OUT OF HERE! 
 Cha'nainu v'anainu, ki ain baw-nu ma'ah-seem... 
 (fervent) ...Asey imanu tz'dakah va'chesed... Asey imanu tz'dakah va'chesd, v'ho- shi -- 
 CARLA'S VOICE Danny, no... 
 Danny, good to see you...I wanted to take up that discussion we were having... (as Danny hurries past) ...about Abraham and Isaac. 
 I can't right now.... 
 You remember what you said, that Isaac actually died on Mt. Moriah? I've been thinking maybe you're right... Died yet was reborn in olam ha-bah.... 
 
