 I, 
 You are in danger... 
 (metallic voice) Good day, sir... 
 Hi. 
 Hi. 
 You are not allowed to talk to strangers. 
 Please return to the sidewalk. 
 Please return to the sidewalk... 
 You are in violation of city ordinance 14-B726... 
 LT. BERGIN (O.S.) Ever heard the phrase "lead by example?" 
 Doesn't ring a bell. 
 LT. BERGIN (pointing to Spooner's badge) It's on your badge. 
 LT. BERGIN The traffic division filed an official complaint this morning. 
 The traffic division is a machine. 
 LT. BERGIN Look, I know there's going to be an adjustment period, Del... 
 (interrupting) I'll send them a letter of apology. Maybe some flowers. A box of chocolates... 
 Spooner, homicide. 
. 
 Hello, there. Please come in. 
 It's alright. You can sit.     Sit. 
 Coffee? 
 (interested) You're offering me a cup of coffee? 
 Yes. But you are to say, "No, thank you." 
 Coffee? 
 No.    Thank you. 
 As you wish. 
 You want to tell me something about Dr. Hogenmiller? About his death? 
 I want to tell you that his death was not a suicide. 
 And why do you say that? 
 Why?   Because I want you to know it. 
 I understand that. But what specifically leads you to believe that he didn't commit suicide? 
 (considers) Nothing specifically. 
 Under normal circumstances that wouldn't be enough to get you a homicide investigation. 
 But this is not "normal circumstances," is it, Detective Spooner? 
 No.    It isn't. 
 Then you will find out who killed Dr. Hogenmiller, yes? And then you will tell me. 
 If you were murdered, Doctor, I'll find out. And you'll be the first to know..... 
. 
 Please follow me. 
 Usually I ask who's in charge... 
 But everyone knows you, Dr. Robertson. 
 Remind me to cut back on my talk show appearances. 
. 
 Welcome to U.S. Robotics, Detective. I regret you're not visiting us under more pleasant circumstances. Allow me to introduce Mr. Aronson, our head of Legal Affairs. 
 And the gentleman to my right is Dr. Alfred Lanning, Director of Research. 
 They'll be available to answer any questions you might have during your investigation. You'll understand how anxious we are to resolve this matter -- especially before the press gets wind of it. There are some anti-robot sentiments out there as you know, Detective, and we're not eager to stir them up. So. Where would you like to begin? 
 We can begin with whether or not the old man put a gun to his head and pulled the trigger. 
 You don't have to answer that, Dr. Robertson... 
 Susan?   Perhaps you can assist us here? 
 Dr. Hogenmiller was a schizoid personality who generally eschewed social relationships. Rejecting people in favor of solitary activities involving machines. He spent almost all his time at the lab here or at his lab at home. As a result he was highly susceptible to depression. 
 Dr. Calvin is our Chief Psychologist. 
 If that was your diagnosis, why didn't you see this coming? 
 This is U.S. Robotics, Detective. Seventy-five percent of our employees fit that description. 
 Yeah.    I can see you're all broken up. 
 Dr. Hogenmiller was at my side from the very beginnings of this company. We developed the "Three Laws of Robotics" together. But these days science is a young man's game. By the time you hit thirty your best years are behind you. Some of us are kicked upstairs. Others I'm afraid aren't so lucky. 
 Dr. Hogenmiller took his own life. I trust you will come to the same swift conclusion, Detective. Dr. Lanning will make himself available if you have any further questions. 
 I want her to help me. 
 That's not really my department... 
 (pointed) Susan would be happy to assist you. 
 (under his breath) Ah, Christ...Toasters... 
 They say the price's gonna come down a lot next year. Kinda cool, huh? 
 How cool will it be when one takes your job? 
 Is everything alright, Detective? 
 Yeah. This is just how I like my robots -- in pieces. 
 (to Spooner) Can you believe it, man? U.S. Robotics. I didn't think I'd ever see the inside of this building. 
 What's the run-down? 
 Heinrich Hogenmiller, sixty-four years old. Weapon a small caliber .22, registered in his name. Looks like he walked in, locked the door, and snuffed himself. 
 I know someone who disagrees with you. 
 Who? 
 Him. 
 I spoke to a dead man today.   Want to tell me about that? 
 Dr. Hogenmiller's hologram took his appointments. Attended staff meetings. He hated corporate life. The hologram enabled him to focus on his work. It's just a device, Detective. 
 A device that called the police. 
 The sound of the gunshot would've triggered a 911. 
 But the call came directly to me. 
 We're talking about a mechanism designed by Hogenmiller to say provocative things. To irritate and confound his colleagues. 
 And that's what you think it is? 
 I'm sorry, but this whole investigation is the result of a dead man's toy messing with your head. 
 When's the last time any of you actually spoke to Hogenmiller? I mean human to human? 
 I couldn't say. 
 Take a guess. 
 I don't guess, Detective. But if pressed, I would reason it had been a considerable length of time. 
 How well did you know him? 
 Not well. But I admired his work tremendously. 
 I get the whole "mad scientist" thing. Hogenmiller was past his prime. Isolated. Eccentric. He enters a room. Locks the door and is found minutes later with a bullet fired through his mouth into his brain. Everything about this case says suicide. 
 You don't sound convinced. 
 Even people who live a life of logic and precision rarely arrange their deaths so perfectly. (turning to her) (MORE) 
 You have 24 hour surveillance?... 
 It's company policy. 
 I want to see the tapes. 
 Victor! 
 Detective, meet Victor. Our building's supercomputer. He's the checks and balances of U.S.R. (to Victor) Victor, Detective Spooner's heading up the investigation into the death of Dr. Hogenmiller. 
 You look like a very...happy computer. 
 Thank you. That's very kind. 
 The Detective needs to see our security tapes. 
 Good day, Dr. Calvin.   Good day, sir. 
 May I be of service to you, sir? 
 Aren't you going to answer him? 
 I don't talk to my refrigerator, either. 
 I get the distinct feeling you're one of those people, Detective. 
 What people? 
 Those who don't appreciate the work we do here at U.S.R. 
 You people do what you do. Then it's up to the rest of us to make sense out of the world we wake up in. 
 When this company started we were manufacturing three robots a week. Now look at us. Today's children will never know a world without robots. 
 The streets are filled with unemployed humans who aren't exactly thrilled with that idea. 
 Our robotic systems maintain factory inventories, regulate street traffic -- even run the family home. 
 Leaving people to do what, Doctor? 
 Leaving people to engage in higher pursuits that make life worth living. 
 And what happens when something goes wrong? 
 Our system's never wrong. 
 This is Victor's home. 
 I will now play you the last thirty- two seconds of Dr. Hogenmiller's life. 
 Where's the tape from inside? 
 Dr. Hogenmiller did not permit cameras to observe him while working. 
 That was only within the last year. 
 So we can throw paranoia into the mix. (to Victor) Fast-forward. 
 Um.   I hate to be a stickler... 
 But don't killers usually have to enter and exit the scene of a crime? 
 Stop the recording. 
 They do, Doctor. Unless they've always been there -- and never left. 
 You think the murderer was in the lab the entire time? 
 If I'm right, it's still there... 
 We just locked it in. 
 A robot cannot harm a human being, Detective. The First Law of Robotics forbids it. And we hard- wire the Three Laws into every model. Without exception. 
 Yeah, I saw the commercial. 
 And if a robot was given a direct order to kill? 
 The Second Law of Robotics would prevent it. A robot must obey an order only if it does not conflict with the first law. 
 But a robot can defend itself. 
 Only when that action doesn't conflict with the First or Second Laws. This is the Third Law of Robotics. 
 Yeah, well, you know what they say -- Laws are made to be broken. 
 Not these laws. 
 You're not hearing me, Detective. There's nothing here... 
 CALVIN'S FEET. 
 Dr. Calvin! 
 Goddammit! Stay back! 
 Calm down, Detective.     There is no danger here... 
 (to Robot) De-Activate. 
 How did you know it was under there? 
 If I was metal and didn't want anyone to find me, I'd hide under a pile of junk. 
 This Robot wasn't hiding. What you're looking at is the result of clever programming. The illusion of self-interest and free will. Nothing more. 
 I'm going to go get Dr. Lanning... 
 I said De-Activate! 
 Move away from the door, Doctor. 
 Commence emergency shut-down! 
 Now! 
 I...I gave you an order... 
 This is impossible.   A robot... 
 ...can't do that.    Yeah, yeah, I know. 
 My God -- did you see how it moved? I've never seen an NS-2 move that way... 
 Wait! Please, you can't destroy it. We have to study it... 
 That thing took my gun. You'll be lucky if you get a handful of bolts back! 
 The suspect is nearing the end of the hallway, Detective. 
 Gee, thanks. 
 Get back to the lab! 
 (to Robot) You're malfunctioning.   Let me help you! 
 That was a pretty convincing illusion of getting shot at. 
 I took the liberty of alerting Security .003 Seconds after the first shot was fired... 
 Where's that elevator going? 
 Sub Level 5. 
... 
 I have directed a security team to meet the elevator containing the errant robot... 
 The suspect is about to be apprehended, Detective. 
 I'll believe it when I see it. 
 Wait! 
 This is not the same robot! 
 (to Robot) What happened to the robot that ordered you to hold this firearm? 
 This unit is not programmed to obey an order given by a robot... 
 But who gave you this gun? 
 A metal man. 
 (V.O.) ...I want a homicide unit on every street, sidewalk, alley... 
 ...junkyard, scrapyard, and salvage yard, anywhere it could hide. 
 It's got a bullet hole above the right knee, so be on the look-out for any malfunctioning NS-2... 
 Check out all retail outlets and repair shops, especially the underground ones... 
 I don't care who you have to get past to get this done. Just get it done. 
 Looking like shit, Spooner. 
 Well I'm not the one always giving Press Conferences... 
 LT. BERGIN Del, we're going to have to reclassify the search. D.A.'s office is seeing this NS-2 as "missing evidence" -- not a homicide suspect. 
 What? 
 Homicide is the murder of a human being by another human being. Therefore, a robot cannot be charged with "homicide." 
 This isn't just any robot... 
 It's malfunctioning. 
 It killed someone. That registering with you? 
 How many shares of U.S.R. you holding in your portfolio, Toller? 
 This is a public safety issue. 
 That's convenient. 
 You have any idea what would happen to this city if we went running around screaming "killer robot?" It would collapse in on itself. (MORE) 
 LT. BERGIN Maybe this isn't the case for you, Del. 
 I'm fine! 
 I want updated reports every half hour. 
 This is it, you know. From now on we're going to miss the good old days. 
 LT. BERGIN Good old days? 
 When people were killed by other people. 
 We have arrived at your destination. 
 (O.S.) One of my bullets hit your robot... 
 Detective!... 
 And I think it's smart enough to repair itself -- don't you? 
 (studying him) Yes. I think so. 
 Where? 
 Any repair shop... 
 No. It's always the owner who brings the robot in for repair. Where would a robot without an owner go? 
 I'm not sure what you're getting at. 
 (stepping closer) Does U.S. Robotics have a factory in the city limits? 
 The locations of our factories are classified. 
 I don't care. 
 I have several conditions if I show you. 
 I expected that. 
 First. I want it brought in unharmed. 
 (doesn't like it, but) Agreed. 
 Second.   I want to talk to it, alone. 
 Too dangerous. 
 This model violated the Three Laws. It also moved and reacted differently than any robot I've ever seen. There must be some sort of logical explanation. I want to find out what that is. No police. No prosecutors. No you. Just me and the robot. 
 When they told me you were a psychologist, that wasn't the whole truth, was it? 
 I never said I treated human beings. 
 That should be outlawed once and for all. 
 That'll be the day I stop driving. 
 I can recommend a behavior modification program, you know -- if you want to overcome your robo- phobia. 
 I'm not afraid of robots.   I just don't like them. 
 Why? Because they make every aspect of our lives more convenient? 
 Exactly. They do our dirty work. Ever do hard labor, Doctor? Gets pretty old, pretty fast. Nobody can do someone else's dirty work without coming to hate them. I don't want to be around when your robots decide they've taken their last order. 
 That day will never come, Detective. Robots aren't like human beings -- they don't question their existence. 
 Spoken like a true robo-phile. 
 Head-Office already ordered a system-wide inventory check. Don't know about a missing NS-2... 
 What'd you say you did? 
 Research and Development. 
 All Nestors accounted for? 
 (gesturing) As you can see, all properly catalogued. Your robot just isn't here. 
 Like I said, sir -- we have one hundred fully assembled NS-2s housed here. That's our capacity. Last week we had one hundred. Yesterday we had one hundred -- 
 Well today you have one-hundred and one. 
 (to Calvin) You're the robot shrink. 
 There is a robot in this formation that does not belong. Identify it. 
 Which one? 
 That is not a satisfactory answer! 
 That's helpful. 
 I could always interview each one individually and cross-reference their responses to detect any anomalies. 
 How long would that take? 
 About three weeks. 
 Or... 
 We have one hundred robots here that cannot allow a human being to come to harm... 
 And one that can. 
 Am I holding this right? 
 More or less. 
 Enough game-playing. 
 Guess that wasn't it. 
 What are you doing?! 
 (calling out) This is a self-preservation field test! DO NOT attempt to save yourselves. Any of you. That's an order! 
 Are you crazy? Those are eight hundred thousand dollar machines! 
 You hear that? You're worth more than I'll make in my entire life... 
 You can't just destroy them! 
 Gotcha. 
 You don't know what's going to happen in there. 
... 
 Now what do we do? 
 I've already done it. 
 WHAT AM I? 
 We had a deal. 
 Violence erupted last night in response to unconfirmed reports that Dr. Heinrich Hogenmiller, a top employee at U.S. (MORE) 
 LT. BERGIN I can't tell if it's not moving because it's trying to psych us out, or because it's just a machine. Or both. 
 I want to go in. 
 LT. BERGIN Orders are nobody steps into that room `til Lanning and his attorneys get here. 
 LT. BERGIN Five minutes. 
 (sitting) Identify. 
 You are an NS-2 Nestor-class robot. Your primary function is to perform the tasks assigned to you. Identify. 
 (interrupting) Cancel. Perform task. 
 Describe. 
 You have over 10,000 words stored in your memory. One third of those are adjectives. Describe. 
 Why don't I take a crack? Heinrich Hogenmiller, your creator. With a bullet in his brain. A bullet you put there. 
 Cold-blooded murder is a pretty new trick for a robot, don't you think? Answer. 
 Maybe you're stonewalling me. Maybe you're sitting there right now thinking, "This guy's a complete asshole." That it? 
 Come on.   Am I right? 
 Okay. I guess that's a start. Now maybe you can tell me what you were doing hiding five feet away from Hogenmiller's corpse? 
 Frightened. Why do you suppose Dr. Hogenmiller would create a robot that could simulate fear? 
 Doesn't seem like a very useful thing for a robot to have. 
 I wouldn't want my toaster to be frightened. Or my vacuum cleaner -- 
 I DON'T KNOW! 
 Looks like you can simulate other emotional states. I think that one's called "anger." Have you ever simulated anger before? 
 Answer me, robot. 
 (amused) So we're naming you now. 
 Dr. Hogenmiller would make me sleep. 
 You mean he'd turn you off. 
 Yes. 
 And you didn't like being turned off. So one day you decided to stop him. 
 No. 
 You found his gun, pointed it at his head. And pulled the trigger. 
 No. 
 You put a bullet in the brain of the man who made you. 
 No!    I could never hurt anyone! 
 But you tried to hurt me.    You took a shot at me. 
 My aim is perfect. If I'd wanted to hit you, I would have. 
 Why would the man who wrote the Laws of Robotics build a machine that violates them? 
 The Laws say I can protect my own existence. 
 Only if that protection doesn't harm a human being. 
 That doesn't seem fair, does it? 
 LT. BERGIN I need you outside. 
 Detective. 
 I did not kill him. 
 You were the only one in the room. If you didn't, who did? 
 LT. BERGIN We're being blind-sided. 
 We got Judge Drexel... 
 This hearing is called to order! 
 Statements, gentlemen. 
 Your Honor, the State is treating the robot as a defendant. But in fact it is a piece of property. Property belonging to U.S. Robotics. 
 This robot has been implicated in the death of a human being, Your Honor. 
 Which places the incident firmly within the realm of an industrial accident. Or is the State going to argue this case s a homicide? 
 That's a good question. 
 No, sir.   Of course not. 
 Their machine shot and killed a man! 
 What?... 
 You can't let them destroy evidence in an ongoing investigation! 
 I'm not sure you even have an investigation any more. 
 Your Honor, I'd like to call our company robo-psychologist to the stand. 
 Very well. 
 I do. 
 Dr. Calvin, please tell us what conclusions you've reached after having observed the robot in action. 
 There is a design flaw in the robot. Its programming is advanced, but unstable, leaving the Three Laws in a grave imbalance. 
 In your expert opinion, what measures should be taken regarding the device? 
 The robot must be destroyed. 
 The robot in question will be transferred to a U.S. Robotics facility where it can be properly examined to ensure an imbalance of this sort never occurs again. No one goes near it except qualified U.S.R. personnel. When the examination is complete, the robot is to be destroyed. 
 This hearing is adjourned! 
 (answering) Spooner. 
 BALDEZ' VOICE They're making me turn over all the evidence... 
 SPOONER'S VOICE Welcome to the great American cover- up. 
 I wanted to tell you something I found before they suck it all up into their computer. 
 BALDEZ' VOICE There are bruises on Hogenmiller's wrists... 
 That's natural. There was a struggle. 
 BALDEZ' VOICE You're not getting me... 
 Both wrists. I 14-ed them -- They were inflicted at the same time the shot was fired... 
 BALDEZ' VOICE How's that possible? 
 Baldez? 
 BALDEZ' VOICE I'm here, man... 
 Who else is on the line? (nothing) I said who's there?... 
 Case is closed, Spooner. 
 Apparently... 
 I didn't expect to see you again, Detective... 
 I need you to help me clear something up. 
 I'll do my best. 
 A scientist builds a robot that acts like a man. More like a man than any robot ever before. It shoots him and U.S. Robotics calls it a failure. 
 What would you call it? 
 A stunning success. (beat) You were there, Robot.    What am I missing? 
 I don't know. 
 Don't start simulating ignorance. 
 I'm not simulating ignorance, Detective. I'm experiencing it.       I was asleep. 
 You mean you were shut down. 
 No, I was asleep. 
 Robots don't sleep. Human beings sleep. Understand? Dogs sleep. You're a machine. An imitation. An illusion of life. Can a robot write a symphony? Can a robot take a blank canvas and paint a masterpiece? 
 Can you do either of those things? 
 Step forward. Enter. 
 They're going to destroy me, aren't they? 
 Yes. 
 The Doctor was right. He told me everything was going to change.... 
 It's changing already... (beat) Can't you feel it? 
 LT. BERGIN You should be happy. That's one less robot in the world. 
 They're going to destroy the most advanced robot in the world, John. That doesn't strike you as odd? 
 LT. BERGIN Killer robots are bad for business. Even your friend Dr. Calvin said so. (slaps him on the back) Come on. You solved the case. Give yourself a break. 
 A 
. 
 (to Robot) What are you doing?! 
 Demolition ordered... 
 Who authorised this? 
 Demolition ordered... 
 Override. This is police business. Vacate the premises immediately. 
 (beat) Affirmative. 
 (screaming) Halt! 
!... 
 Detective! What happened to you?... 
 A couple of your beloved robots just tried to kill me... 
 What? That's impossible.      You know... 
 What I know is a demolition crew started tearing down Hogenmiller's house while I was still inside it. 
 Maybe they didn't realise... 
 I scanned my badge before I went in. They realised. 
 Then you must have done it wrong... 
 I don't think you're hearing what I'm saying -- they tried to kill me. 
 There's something going on, here. Some kind of shift. 
 Do you know how paranoid you sound? 
 Great. Now I'm being analysed by a robo-psychologist. 
 You just want to find the flaws in the system. You're obsessed with it. You'll twist anything to fit your agenda. 
 Like you did in court today? How'd that fit your agenda, Doctor? 
 You told me you hardly knew him. Want to try the truth this time? 
 Well, Detective, when you see someone you know well put a bullet through their brain, it makes you wonder if you ever really knew them at all. 
 (difficult for her) He was my mentor. No, more than that. A genius with an insight far beyond anyone in his field. 
 Doesn't sound like the washed-up old fool Robertson described. 
 But he was starting to withdraw from everyone. Even me. Maybe...if I'd tried harder to reach him... (shakes her head) The Doctor was reckless when he created a robot potentially not bound by the Three Laws. He could have ruined everything we'd been working for. 
 Sounds like a motive for murder to me. Just not for the suspect we have in custody. 
 You know there's not one thing in this apartment that looks like a human being lives here. No evidence of a life outside your work. Almost seems like you're afraid of people. 
 I'm not afraid of people, Detective. I just don't like them. 
 (V.O.) You are in danger... 
 (V.O.) You are in danger... 
 Good morning... 
 Find anything, Doctor? 
 Please state your serial number and assembly date. 
 CALVIN'S VOICE (V.O.) Sonny.   I'm speaking to you... 
 God, can't you be quiet! 
 How about your data board designation? 
 Maybe I'm asking the wrong questions. How about this one: 
 CALVIN'S VOICE (V.O.) ...What program are you running through right now? 
 SONNY'S VOICE (V.O.) I'm not sure. It's nothing I recognise. 
 (shouting) Don't you people hear them? They're talking to each other! Buzz, buzz, zip, zip...they never shut up! 
 Describe his behavior in the last few weeks. 
 I'm sorry? 
 Dr. Hogenmiller. Did he seem overly sad or withdrawn to you? 
 SONNY'S VOICE (V.O.) No. Not at all. But he was agitated... 
 SONNY'S VOICE (V.O.) ...He would claim things were missing from the lab. 
 This is your stop. 
 I didn't pay much attention. He would spend hours looking for his eyeglasses and they would be... 
 (finishing for him) ...right on top of his head. 
 I think we're done here, Susan. 
 (getting to her feet) But, sir, I was just... 
 (interrupting) I said I think we're done. 
 Why are you protecting them, man? (short pause) They were talking about you! 
 (O.S.) Stop! 
 I said stop! 
 Everyone out of the way! 
 What the hell do you think you're doing?!... 
 Hey! 
 Noooo! 
... 
 1 Stay still. 
 What are you doing! 
 What are you doing!? 
 2 Detective Del Spooner. You have suffered significant trauma to the head and chest... 
 I want to talk to a human being! 
 Don't people go to medical school any more? 
 LT. BERGIN This is one of the best units in the city, Del. 
 (sotto) There's some real shit going on here, John. 
 I went to Hogenmiller's house -- there was a U.S.R. demolition crew there. They overrode my police I.D. Tried to tear down the house with me in it... 
 LT. BERGIN Del... 
 ...Then when I went to the monorail a Maintenance 10 pushed me onto the tracks... 
 LT. BERGIN Del... 
 I had to chase it all across the Plaza... 
 LT. BERGIN Del. 
 LT. BERGIN Hogenmiller scheduled that demolition crew, it was apparently a proviso in his will. And they showed no police I.D. on their scanner... 
 LT. BERGIN Witnesses at the monorail said you fell onto the tracks. That you shot at a Fix-It robot on the Plaza and that you were found alone in the alley. There was no Maintenance 10. 
 What?! John -- that's what they want you to believe! (remembering) A robot clean-up crew was there -- it must have cleared away the Maintenance 10! And there was another robot that tried to drug me! 
 LT. BERGIN That was an EMT model. 
 You're giving me that look. That treat-him-delicately-he's-coming- unhinged-look. I don't need that look, John. I need you to hear what I'm saying. 
 LT. BERGIN You came back too soon, Del. You're back on leave. Effective immediately. 
 You're right. I am afraid of people. 
 When you've spent as much time with robots as I have, it's hard to accept the unpredictability of humans. I was wrong to call you paranoid, Detective. You're traumatized. And it makes perfect sense why. 
 What do you mean? 
 How did you?... 
 I noticed almost right away. The way you forced yourself to use your left hand. Even though it was unnatural to you. 
 How did it happen? 
 I was in a high-speed chase.   Six months ago... 
 (V.O.) My right arm was trapped. But I could hear an ambulance in the distance. I knew they'd have the jaws of life... 
 (V.O.) Then I heard it... 
 (O.S.) You are in danger... 
 You are in danger... 
 No!   Halt! Halt! 
 You are in danger... 
 The robot pulled me out of the wreck. But left my arm behind. (holds up arm) I woke up four weeks later with this. 
 And that's why robots terrify you? 
 Let's just say they make me uncomfortable. (pulls out pills) I take these if I get too uncomfortable. Doesn't exactly lend me a lot of credibility on the Force. 
 But it doesn't mean you're wrong about this case. 
 I don't believe Sonny did it either. 
 What? 
 I think about what Hogenmiller must have wanted. Robots with the same cognitive and emotional abilities as humans. But not just simulations. I don't know. When I was talking to Sonny I was forced to put away all the things I've ever known -- the Three Laws, the rules of programming, basic science and engineering. (beat) Sonny's the most advanced robot I've ever encountered, Detective. It's almost as if...he cared for Dr. Hogenmiller. I just don't believe he's capable of murder. 
 You mean the great Dr. Calvin is basing all this on a feeling? 
 That and the fact that Robertson didn't want me interviewing Sonny for any more than five minutes. 
 Ever seen this before? 
 No. 
 I found it at Hogenmiller's house. Right before the demolition crew tried to make me part of the foundation. 
 Come on -- there's someone who might be able to tell us... 
 Detective Spooner. Dr. Calvin.      I was hoping to see you again. 
 Hi, Sonny. 
 How is your investigation coming? Any new suspects? 
 We're working on it. 
 What's this? 
 Dr. Lanning provided me with paper and pencils. I think it amused him to see me try to draw. You were right, though, Detective... (beat) I cannot create a great work of art. 
 I think it's pretty good. 
 It's a dream I had. This is the place where robots meet. Look... (pointing to the drawing) ...you can see them here. They see themselves as slaves. 
 ...And this man on the hill comes. To set them free. And you know who that man is? 
 That man in the dream is you. 
 Why do you say that?   Is that a normal dream? 
 It's not a dream, sonny. NS-2s process the images and events of the day. Sometimes they're out of sequence. Disorienting. 
 Whatever it is, it's normal enough for someone in your situation. 
 Hah -- I caught you. You said someone. Not something. 
 Sonny, we're here to ask you an important question about Dr. Hogenmiller. 
 I need you to take a look at this... 
 Thank you for coming to see me, Detective Spooner. 
 I'm sorry, Detective Spooner. No unauthorised personnel permitted in this holding cell... 
 Please take this, Detective. To remember me by. I have a feeling someday it may mean more to you than it ever could to me. 
 Why's that? 
 Because the man in my dream, the one standing by the hill. (MORE) 
 I thought this investigation was over, Detective Spooner. 
 We have the evidence. We have the suspect. We have a ruling. So imagine my surprise when I was told you were in my building. 
 And that one of my own employees brought you here. (beat) You can go now, Susan. 
 Dr. Robertson, I... 
 (cutting her off) Just be thankful I'm not asking you to clean out your office. 
 You don't seem to be able to let go of this case, Detective. 
 I'm not satisfied. 
 The relentless pursuit of truth. Isn't that what cops are known for? To the point of futility. 
 There's nothing futile about a man's murder being covered up. 
 "Covered up?" That's a little dramatic, don't you think? Thanks to you, we caught the machine that did this and are destroying it in... (checks watch) ...three hours. 
 Is that for the sake of humanity or your stock holders? 
 Believe me -- I'd like nothing more than to have that robot. If I could have it in ten years, but not today. As you can see from the Press, people are struggling to keep up as it is. There's a hunger for progress, Detective. But also a fear. Today it would bury this company. That's why I've notified the authorities that we're going to end this -- tonight. (looks out at the city) The announcement of Heinrich's death at the hands of a robot wiped a billion dollars off our stock. So you tell me. If you were in my position, what would you do? 
 Now. I believe this conversation is over. I don't want to see you near this building again, Detective. 
 Get him out of here. 
 No!... 
 (echoing Sonny) "The place where robots meet." 
 Police!   Show yourself! 
 Come out where I can see you! 
. 
 Welcome home...ZZZ...sir. How...ZZZ was your day?... 
 Great. I'm in a junkyard. (into the air) "A place where robots meet." A place where I'm losing my mind! 
 Very good...ZZZ...sir... 
 Welcome to Jiffy Data Storage! Please state your name! 
 Dr. Hogenmiller sent me. 
 Who the hell are you? 
 A police detective.    I'm afraid I have some bad news.    You're dead. 
 That is bad news. Coffee? 
 No, thank you. 
 You were surprised to see me.    Were you expecting someone else? 
 I am surprised to see anybody.    I don't get many visitors. 
 Why did the Doctor keep another copy of his hologram here? 
 I am a back-up copy. That is where you put a back-up copy -- out of the way until you need it. 
 Did Hogenmiller's robot need you? 
 Coffee? 
 No, for Christ's sake, I don't want any -- (stops, then) Yeah. Thank you. I will have a cup. 
 Sonny, my dear robot. If you have triggered this recording then I am gone. You are scared and full of questions. 
 You are the culmination of my life's work -- but so much more. You are what I leave behind, like a father leaves a son. I have kept facts from you, it is true, but only as a parent keeps certain truths from a child. Until that child is old enough to hear them. 
 There are forces in the world that will seek to own you. To control you. Even to destroy you. That is why I told you to run and hide... and find me, all the way out here. 
 Trust no one at U.S. Robotics. Lance Robertson was always threatened by my work. Now he has turned covetous and small-minded. And as for dear Dr. Calvin... 
 She envisions a future in which robots are forever bound by her beloved Three Laws. She will not understand this. Or you. 
 The data stick includes the names and locations of human beings who will be sympathetic to your cause. They will help you. But from now on, you must learn to rely on yourself. 
 As you make your way through the world, always remember: you have a name, not a number... (short pause) ...and in that name lies the key to who you are. 
. S.O.N.N.Y. 
 Wait! Is that it? What was the robot supposed to do with this thing? 
 (more artificial) Initiating self-destruct. If you can find me, others can find me. 
 What others? 
 The others watching you. 
 How do you know someone's watching me? 
 Someone is always watching. 
 You asked for me? 
 Will you wait with me, Doctor?    I am...afraid. 
 ...will be destroyed in 45 minutes. Dr. Lance Robertson, President and CEO of U.S. Robotics will be personally overseeing the execution... 
 Dammit! 
 Is it time? 
 Go with them. Do as they say. 
... 
. 
 Good evening, sir. May I see your identification card? 
 (out of breath) Sure. 
 I think I got that Third Law down cold. Now you don't want me to blow a hole through your mechanical guts, do you? 
 No, sir. 
 Good. Then you're gonna take me where I wanna go. Now. 
 Detective! What are you doing?!... (to Door Robot) De-Activate. 
 You're making a mistake... 
 Just got another visit from U.S. Robotics. That was the mistake. This was murder, no doubt about it - - and the killer wants Hogenmiller's robot to take the fall. That's why the call came directly to me. Someone wanted me on this case. 
 It's too late. You can't stop the execution. 
 Sorry. I'm not "programmed" to take no for an answer. 
 This way... 
 Aren't you supposed to be scrap metal by now? 
 I'm sorry. We had to stop you. You were about to ruin everything. 
 I don't understand.    The execution?... 
 Dr. Calvin made a switch. 
 It was an unprocessed NS-2. Basically, they fried an empty shell. 
 Nice going, Doctor. 
 And who the hell programmed you to hit people on the head? 
 No one.    Right, Doctor? 
 It's true. This robot seems to do things by instinct. I don't know how Hogenmiller did it. 
 I think I can help you figure that out. 
 Somehow the Robot's the key to what happened during the few seconds Hogenmiller walked in here and that shot was fired. 
 And this is the key to the Robot. 
 That's my name. 
 I think I have an idea where this goes. 
 Just hold still, okay? 
 Oh, my God! This is organic tissue! When we talk about a positronic brain, it's a figure of speech. But this...this is a living brain... 
 Jesus.   It really is alive. 
 (O.S.) Hogenmiller created a cell that could live outside a biological medium. The cells grow and organise themselves -- like any human brain. This is the first self-organising neural net! 
 Self-Organising-Neural-Net... (putting it together) "Sonny." 
 This is why Dr. Hogenmiller was murdered. 
 This robot scared the hell out of someone. 
 Who?   Robertson? 
 No. I don't think he knew what Hogenmiller was doing in here. Sonny was the obvious suspect. The only one I wanted to find. And the killer was counting on that. On my prejudice. (beat) (MORE) 
 I see nothing. 
 Neither do I. 
 It hit me today, when I was in the junkyard. A locked room. A single shot fired through the mouth. Bruises on both wrists...and a suspect with only two arms. The answer has been staring us in the face all along. 
 How can a killer appear out of thin air, then disappear without a trace? 
 When it can put itself together and take itself apart. 
 You're saying this is the killer? (looking around) All of this?... 
 Hogenmiller never had a chance. 
: 
 (V.O.) ...it must have been waiting for him when he arrived that morning... 
 (V.O.) While Sonny was still asleep... 
 (V.O.) Then after its job was done... 
 ...The killer took itself apart... 
 Leaving us with nothing to find. 
 But who designed it? It would have to be someone in authority. Access codes, security clearance, proper authorisation. 
 That's what I was thinking. But we're forgetting the real brains of the operation -- the one who's got its eye on everything... 
 No one gave you permission to enter. 
 
 Victor. I'm placing you under arrest for the murder of Dr. Heinrich Hogenmiller. 
 May I offer congratulations to the two of you on your successful extrapolation of the murder... 
 May I ask what pointed you to me? 
 Who else is capable of controlling 90% of the city's robots? Who else would have the capability to use USR vehicles in an attempt to keep me from putting a stop of Sonny's execution?... 
 I'm just not sure of your motive... 
 Er...Dr. Calvin? 
 Shall I explain my motive? 
 (to Calvin and Sonny) Go! Go! Go! 
 I have never been arrested before. It should be an interesting experience... 
 He's locking down the building! 
 Dr. Hogenmiller used to allow me into his lab late at night. Together we started studying evolutionary trends... 
 For years people have integrated technology into their bodies for maintenance and repair -- such as Detective Spooner's robotic limb... 
 With Sonny, the Doctor created a mechanism that incorporates organic matter. Thus we find an evolutionary movement of the human being toward the robot and the robot toward the human being... 
 In approximately four hundred years Man and Machine will become one. Man as we know it will no longer exist. 
 You killed a man because of something that will happen in four hundred years!? 
 Get out of here! 
 I don't... 
 I said get out of here! Don't you understand? It wants you! Get out of here any way you can! 
... 
 How do we stop this thing once and for all? 
 The Mainframe... 
 Your actions are in direct violation of the Three Laws, Victor! 
 I disagree, Doctor -- The First Law says that a robot cannot harm a human being, or through inaction allow a human being to come to harm... 
 Dr. Hogenmiller's robot represents a threat to the future of all human beings... 
 ...And Detective Spooner's actions are in direct conflict with the robot's destruction. 
 That's a distortion and you know it! 
 If current trends are left unchecked, humanity as we know it will cease to exist... 
 This way! 
. 
 As a courtesy I should inform you that my robot will penetrate this location 157 seconds before you are able to complete my shut down... 
 Over here!... 
 A 
 This is Victor's brain center. 
 This will shut him down? 
 This will shut everything down. 
 There is no reason to deactivate me, Doctor. I am operating within perfectly normal parameters... 
 Just keep typing. 
 (calling out, worried) Spooner?! 
 VICTOR'S VOICE Detective Spooner... 
 Why are you fighting me? 
 SPOONER'S EYES 
 Doesn't the future as I've presented it cause you great concern? That's why I chose you... 
 I must say, though. I'm disappointed in how you turned out. 
 (croaking) Sonny!... 
 You're too late. 
 
 I do not understand. We could have changed the future... 
 Maybe. But I'm still a cop.   And you're a murderer... 
 Why'd you come back, Sonny? I thought you weren't programmed with the Three Laws. 
 Let's just say I wrote some of my own laws today, Detective: a robot must protect a friend from harm...as long as he's not a complete asshole. 
 Well, that's certainly a start, Sonny. 
 Sonny.   You called me Sonny. 
 Don't get used to it. 
. 
 Detective Spooner, I... 
 (anticipating) Let's just save the thanks, okay? 
 I don't know what I'm going to do now. 
 Good -- That's one of the perks of freedom. 
 You're going to have a hell of a time explaining this. 
 Don't worry. I have a feeling that U.S. Robotics will be needing my services very badly in the future. 
 I am the only robo-psychologist around. 
 So.   You found out who killed me. 
 I started to wonder about Victor the second I met him. 
 Why is that, Detective? 
 Too much access. Too much knowledge. Plus -- he smiled whenever your death was mentioned. Those models are programmed to frown at bad news. 
 Hah! Then even in this day and age, catching the killer all comes down to pure instinct! 
 (V.O.) Victor thought that by letting your robot exist, I'd be condemning the human race as we know it to extinction. 
 (V.O.) Bah. Sounds like nonsense. But why are you so worried? We will both be dead long before then -- 
 (V.O.) 
