 (O.S.) Mark, get off your father! 
 Hi, hon. 
 Don't forget, Mrs. Higgins wants to talk to you this afternoon about Kevin.  You need to do something about this. 
 Kids are supposed to get detention. 
 Secretary of Defense... 
 Dean Rusk! 
 Wrong, and you get to wax my car. 
. Rusk is State, moron.  Robert McNamara. 
 Got time for pancakes? 
 Nope.  Attorney General? 
 (chorus) Too easy!  Bobby, Bobby Kennedy! 
 All right, wise guys, Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America... 
 (NPIC), WASHINGTON D.C. 
. 
 Morning, Floyd. 
 Top o' the morning, Mr. President. 
 Bayh's going to lose, but it's good groundwork for us for '64. 
 No you weren't. 
 Today, for your information, is Pulaski Day.  We're going to Buffalo... 
 #1 We're putting up Potowski next time. Will you guys come out for him? 
 Who else you got? 
 #2 There's Richardson.  Good kid. 
 Got the touch? 
 #2 Yeah.  Still moldable, too. 
 Everyone likes a good kid... 
 MR. PRESIDENT!  PRESIDENT KENNEDY! 
 How's my favorite President? 
 Busy.  But you've got his heart. 
 I want an hour with him. 
 I said his heart, not his attention. 
 Three weeks before midterm elections? You need me. 
 Well.  There is a new civil rights initiative he wants to talk about. 
 I'm doing a piece on Skybolt.  I hear Macmillan's meeting with him in Nassau. 
 We're giving the Brits Polaris instead. But a story'll just aggravate things. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Not today.  He's got tight schedule. 
 Pretending there isn't a problem won't fix it.  He can clear the air on Anglo American relations. 
 Forget it, Scotty. 
 Let him talk to me, he makes Macmillan look good, I print it, the British public likes it, Macmillan owes you. 
 All right, you're in.  Half hour. 
 Hey, Mac.  You're up bright and early. 
 No, Ken.  I need to see him now... 
 Morning, Floyd. 
 What's it about? 
 Cuba. 
 Just Cuba?  Okay, I got work to do, see you guys downstairs. 
 (to phone, scary calm) Listen to me, you worthless piece of disloyal shit.  You will pull Daly's man on the circuit.  You owe your goddamn job to this administration. (beat, listening) There is a word you need to learn.  It is the only word in politics.  Loyalty. LOYALTY you motherfucking piece of shit! 
 KENNY (CONT'D) What're you looking at?  This isn't the blessed order of St. Mary the Meek. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Excuse us. 
 Not as far as the election goes. 
 We hit a Nazi buzz bomb field in '45. (beat, incredulous) It looks like a rocket base... 
 On Sunday morning, one of our U-2s took these pictures.  The Soviets are putting medium range ballistic missiles into Cuba. 
 They appear to be the SS-4: range of a thousand miles, three-megaton nuclear warhead. 
 Jesus Christ in Heaven... 
 Please hold for the White House...Mr. O'Donnell for Secretary McNamara... White House Operator... please hold... 
 The principals are assembling in an hour.  See you then. 
 Should be here any minute. 
 (O.S.) Where the hell are you? 
 Jesus Christ, guys.  What the hell's Khruschev thinking? 
 (shaking his head) Complete snowjob.  And then we went out and told the country they weren't putting missiles into Cuba. (beat) By the way, you realize we just lost the midterms. 
 Who gives a shit about the midterms now? The Soviets are putting nuclear weapons ninety miles away from us. 
 You mean there's something more important than votes?  Didn't think I'd live to see the day, Ken. 
 Jesus.  I feel like we've caught the Jap carriers steaming for Pearl Harbor. 
 Good morning, Mr. President. 
 Mr. President. 
 Sleep is for the weak, Mr. President. 
 Lyndon.  Adlai. 
 McCone's been notified and is coming back from the West coast.  Carter's here, though. 
 Ted. 
 Kenny. 
 Arthur Lundahl heads our photographic interpretation division at CIA.  I'll let him and his boys take you through what we've got.  Arthur? 
 Gentlemen, as most of you now know a U-2 over Cuba on Sunday morning took a series of disturbing photographs. 
 (V.O.) Our analysis at NPIC indicates the Soviet Union has followed its conventional weapons build-up in Cuba with the introduction of surface-to surface medium-range ballistic missiles, or MRBMs.  Our official estimate at this time is that this missile system is the SS-4 Sandal.  We do not believe these missiles are as yet operational. 
 IRONBARK reports the SS-4 can deliver a 3-megaton nuclear weapon 1000 miles.  So far we have identified 32 missiles served by around 3400 men, undoubtedly all Soviet personnel.  Our cities and military installations in the Southeast, as far north as Washington, are in range of these weapons, and in the event of a launch, would only have five minutes of warning. 
 Five minutes, gentlemen.  Five minutes. 
 In those five minutes they could kill 80 million Americans and destroy a significant number of our bomber bases, degrading our retaliatory options.  The Joint Chiefs' consensus is that this is a massively destabilizing move, upsetting the nuclear balance. 
 Yes, Mr. President.  These are nuclear missiles. 
 How long until they're operational? 
 General Taylor can answer that question better than I can. 
 (V.O.) GMAIC estimates ten to fourteen days. However, a crash program to ready the missiles could cut that time. 
 I have to stress that there may be more missiles that we don't know about.  We need more U-2 coverage. 
 Not at present, sir.  But I think the prudent answer is we don't know. 
 No, Mr. President.  We don't.  We just don't know what's happening inside the Kremlin at that level. 
 They lied to us.  Two weeks ago Dobrynin told me to my face Khurschev had no intention of putting missiles into Cuba. They said themselves, this is our backyard. 
 Mr. President, I believe my team is in agreement.  If we permit the introduction of nuclear missiles to a Soviet satellite nation in our hemisphere, the diplomatic consequences will be too terrible to contemplate. The Russians are trying to show the world they can do whatever they want, wherever they want, and we're powerless to stop them.  If they succeed... 
 It will be Munich all over again. 
 Appeasement only makes the aggressor more aggressive.  Confidence in our security commitments around the world will falter, allies will become unsure in the face of Soviet pressure, and the Soviets will be emboldened to push us even harder.  We must remove the missiles one way or another.  It seems to me the options are either to build up the crisis 'til they give in, or we hit them.  An air strike. 
 We've worked up several military scenarios.  Before I ask General Taylor to lead us through the various options, I'd like for us to adopt a rule. If we are going to strike, we must agree now that we will do it before the missiles become operational.  Because once they are, I don't think we can guarantee getting them all before at least some are launched. 
 Sir.  We need to consider... if we decide to act, there's a good chance we'll end up in a general war. 
 If we hit 'em, kill a lot of Russians, they'll move against Berlin.  They attack Berlin, that's NATO... and we're at war. 
 Damned if we do, but if we don't, we're in a war for sure somewhere else in six months. 
 There've got to be alternatives to just going out and bombing them. 
 He's right, Jack.  Taylor is saying we may have some time.  We've got to use it. 
 What about the allies?  Congress?  I think we may need to start letting key people know.  And they're all scattered across the country for the campaign. We're going to need to get the U.N. staff in and warmed up.  Jesus... I don't even know if we've got secure communications with half our embassies since that the Soviets got that cryptographer of ours. 
 The other thing is... 
 ... I know.  CIA and the military fucked us on the Bay of Pigs. 
 They're going to be pressing for a military solution soon.  We can't afford to let them ram their agenda down our throats.  We need to come with options other than air strikes so we have some sort of choice here. 
 We got a bunch of smart guys.  We lock 'em up together in there, kick 'em in the ass til they come up with options. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) I'll do it. 
 (to the President) It's too politicized with you in there, anyway.  They need to be able to stick their necks out. 
 It'll be the principals, a couple of the key guys from each department: the Executive Committee of the National Security Council.  We'll call it EXCOM. 
 EXCOM.  Has a ring to it.  Like F-Troop. 
 Then we need to do a few things right away.  No Pierre.  He knows, the press knows. You're going to have to keep up your schedule - your movements are followed too closely.  And we need to get these guys out of the White House.  George Ball's got a conference room at State. (to Bobby) Reconvene over there this afternoon, come back here tonight. 
 I think we should bring in Dean Acheson. He was fighting Soviets while we were still working the wards in Boston. 
 Hey, Kenny!  Who died? 
 Way it's going, the Democratic Party. DNC strategy session.  If you can call it that. 
 Sir? 
 It's Tuesday.  You said to call.  When do I get my 45 minutes? 
 Tell you what.  We're in Connecticut tomorrow for Ribicoff.  I'll get you up front with him during the flight. 
 Deal. 
 Sir. 
 What is it? 
 The number you asked for. 
 I ask for a lot of 'em.  Whose is it? 
 Dean Acheson's, sir. 
 Gotta go, Scotty.  See you tomorrow. 
 Screw secrecy.  You try having that fat ass sit on your lap all the way from Foggy Bottom. 
 You were excited.  I say no more. 
 Everybody agrees the diplomatic route is out.  It's too slow, and they'll have the missiles finished. 
 We have 850 planes assembling at Homestead, Eglin, Opa Locka, MacDill, Patrick, Pensacola and Key West. 
 (V.O.) Due to the tropical foliage, the OPLAN calls for high-explosive and napalm loadouts for our ground attack sorties. 
 I still think there are diplomatic approaches we haven't considered yet. 
 We have high confidence in the expanded air strike option. (beat) The problem, Mr. President, is that it's a short-term solution.  Khruschev can send more missiles next month.  The Chiefs and I believe we should follow up the air strikes with the full version of 
 316. 
 Yes, sir.  We can be sure we get all the missiles, and we remove Castro so this can never happen again. 
 Yes, sir.  Our best option is to commence the strikes before the missiles are operational.  The invasion happens eight days later. 
 Mr. President, you have rightly dismissed the diplomatic option.  The Soviet will only tie you down in negotiation, and leave us short of our goal, the removal of the missiles. Negotiating will do nothing more than give them time to make the missiles operational, complicating the necessary military task we have at hand. 
 ACHESON (CONT'D) For the last fifteen years, I have fought here at this table along side your predecessors in the struggle against the Soviet.  Gentlemen, I do not wish to seem melodramatic, but I do wish to impress upon you one observation with all conceivable sincerity.  A lesson I have learned with bitter tears and great sacrifice. (beat) The Soviet understands only one language: action.  It respects only one word: force. 
 ACHESON (CONT'D) I concur with General Taylor.  I recommend, sir, air strikes followed by invasion, perhaps preceded by an ultimatum to dismantle the missiles if military necessity permits. 
 Yes, sir, we're preparing to implement all three options, though I must stress again, sir, there are risks to the strikes without the follow-on invasion. 
 You want to be clear, Mr. President, that we have definitely decided against a political track. 
 Your first step, sir, will be to demand that the Soviet withdraw the missiles within 12 to 24 hours.  They will refuse.  When they do, you will order the strikes, followed by the invasion. They will resist, but will be overrun. They will retaliate against a target somewhere else in the world, most likely Berlin.  We will honor our treaty commitments and resist them there, defeating them per our plans. 
 Hopefully cooler heads will prevail before we reach the next step. 
 If McNamara'd get off the fence... 
 We have time. 
 Goddamn it, it's obvious.  It's the only option.  That asshole, Stevenson.  We can't let this drag out or we lose our shot. 
 Bombing them... 
 Remember that the Kennedys' father was one of the architects of Munich.  The General is right.  There is only one responsible choice here. 
 ACHESON (CONT'D) Let's pray appeasement doesn't run in families.  I fear weakness does. 
 
 Jesus Christ Almighty... 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Call me Irish, but I don't believe in cooler heads prevailing. 
 There is no expert on this subject, no wise old man. 
 Then let's bomb the shit out of them. Everyone wants to, even you, even me. (there's a point) It sure would feel good. 
 Jack, I'm as conniving as they come, but a sneak attack is just wrong. 
 He's right.  And things are happening too fast.  It smells like the Bay of Pigs all over again. 
 As if dealing with the Russians wasn't hard enough, we gotta worry about our own house. 
 Kenny!  What happened?  They didn't let me up front, said the President was on the phone the whole time. 
 He was. 
 Yeah?  Who was he talking to?  Acheson? Come on, O'Donnell, everyone's wondering what's going on.  What's Acheson doing in town?  And don't give me some bullshit about DNC think tanks. Acheson's Mr. Cold War. 
 Why don't you ask him yourself?  You can have him on the way home. 
 I'm giving you a chance here: talk to me.  You can influence how this thing unfolds. 
 Cheer up, you've neutralized the entire White House Press Corps for a day. 
 No.  No.  No.  There is more than one option here.  If one isn't occurring to us, it's because we haven't thought hard enough. 
 Sometimes there is only one right choice, and you thank God when it's clear. 
 You're talking about a sneak attack! How'll that make us look?  Big country blasting a little one into the stone age.  We'll be real favorites around the world. 
 Bobby, that's naive.  This is the real world, you know that better than anybody.  Your argument is ridiculous. 
 You weren't so ethically particular when we were talking about options for removing Castro over at CIA. 
 I can't let my brother go down in History like a villain, like a Tojo, ordering another Pearl Harbor. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Bob.  If we go ahead with these air strikes... (beat) There's got to be something else.  Give it to me.  I don't care how crazy, inadequate or stupid it sounds. (beat, pleading) Give it to me. 
 Six months ago we gamed out a scenario. It's slow.  It doesn't get rid of the missiles.  There are a lot of drawbacks. (beat) The scenario was for a blockade of Cuba. 
 The situation is worse than we thought. We count 40 missiles now, longer range IRBMs.  They can hit every city in the continental U.S. 
 Mr. President, as of this moment my planes are ready to carry out the air strikes.  All you have to do is give me the word, sir, and my boys will get those Red bastards. 
 We've just begun the mobilization under cover of a pre-arranged exercise, sir. We're looking at another week and a half, Mr. President. 
 But you can begin the strikes, now.  The plans call for an eight-day air campaign.  It'd light a fire under the army's ass to get in place. 
 Mr. President, I believe it is the only course of action.  American is in danger.  Those missiles are a threat to our bomber bases and the safety of our nuclear deterrent.  Without our deterrent, there's nothing to keep the enemy from choosing general nuclear war. It's our duty, our responsibility to the American people to take out those missiles and return stability to the strategic situation.  The Big Red Dog is digging in our back yard, and we're justified in shooting him. 
 Sir, we have a rapidly closing window of opportunity where we can prevent those missiles from ever becoming operational. The other options... 
 Mr. President, the motto I chose for SAC is 'Peace is our Profession.'  God forbid we find ourselves in a nuclear exchange.  But if launched, those missiles in Cuba would kill a lot of Americans.  That's why I'm being such a pain in the ass about destroying them. Destroying them immediately.  Hell, even Mac agrees. 
 Nothing. 
 Nothing.  Because the only alternative open to them is one they can't choose. 
 Those goddamn Kennedys are going to destroy this country if we don't do something about this. 
 I was hoping LeMay pushed you.  I wouldn't mind going a few rounds with him. 
 Mr. President, Gromyko should be on his way by now. 
 We need to go over what you're going to say. 
 There's still no sign they know that we know about the missiles.  Been a lot of cloud cover; probably think we aren't getting any good product. 
 Kenny, I'm getting funny questions from the guys in the press office.  As Press Secretary, I need to know.  What's going on? 
 They're planning to shave you bald next time you fall asleep on the bus. (off Pierre's get-serious look) Sorry, Pierre, Gromyko just arrived. 
 Are they going to discuss the military exercises going on in Florida? 
 Come on, Scotty.  This meeting's been on the books for months.  It's just a friendly talk on U.S.-Soviet relations. 
 KENNY'S POV: 
 
 Mr. President, this will never be done. You need not be concerned. 
 No, Mr. President.  We have sent defensive weapons only to Cuba. 
 What happened? 
 We're split down the middle.  If I held a vote I think airstrike would beat blockade by a vote or two. 
 What if I can't? 
 We go into this split, the Russians will know it.  And they'll use it against us. 
 You don't show for Chicago, everyone'll know there's something going on. 
 No way. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) I'm not calling and cancelling on Daly. You call and cancel on Daly. 
 Damn right I'm scared. 
 Then you'll call, right? 
 Kenny, all right.  What's going on here? There's rumors going around an exercise in the southeast is related to Cuba. I'm the Press Secretary.  I can't do my job if I don't know what's going on.  So what's going on? 
 What are you telling them? 
 The truth: I don't know. 
 (deadly serious) Tell 'em you've looked into it, and all it is is an exercise.  And Pierre -- (beat, loaded) The President may have a cold tomorrow. 
 Damn it, Kenny.  Goddamn it! 
 There are major rail disruptions in the South, two airborne divisions are on alert.  That exercise is an invasion. 
 Well, you know how Bobby has it in for the State of Mississippi. 
 This is about Cuba. 
 Cuba?  You're fucking crazy.  We are not invading Cuba.  Nobody gives a rat's ass about Cuba.  Not now, not ever. If you print something like that, all you're going to do is inflame the situation.  Nobody talks to assholes who inflame situations.  Assholes like that can find themselves cut out of the loop. 
 You've never threatened me before. 
 RESTON (CONT'D) All right.  I'm not going to print anything until I have another source. But I promise you, I'll get one. 
 (to Assistant) Tell Pierre I need to talk to him. (to phone) Bobby? 
 Bring him back. 
 The President has a cold.  He is cancelling the remainder of this trip and is returning to Washington on the advice of his doctor. 
 Mr. President, our deliberations have led us to the conclusion that, for the moment, a blockade of offensive weapons to Cuba is our best option.  But we'll still need a strong showing of support from the Organization of American States to give us an umbrella of legitimacy. 
 A blockade is technically an act of war, therefore we recommend calling the action a quarantine. 
 (V.O.) There are between 20 and 30 Soviet ships underway to Cuba at this time. 
 MCNAMARA (V.O.) (CONT'D) 800 miles out, the navy will stop them, board, and any vessels containing weapons will be turned back. 
 A quarantine prevents more missiles from reaching Cuba, but it doesn't remove the ones already there.  It gives the Soviets a chance to pull back without war.  If they refuse to remove the missiles before they're operational, we retain the option to strike or invade. 
 We believe that a surprise attack would be counter to what the United States stands for.  We believe that an attack leaves us no room for maneuver, and the inevitable Soviet response will force us into a war we do not want.  A war that, this time, will really end all war. 
 Mr. President, there are still those of us who believe we should proceed with the strikes.  With the blockade, we lose strategic surprise and we run the risk of a first strike if the Soviets decide they have to use the missiles or lose them. 
 There is a third option.  With either course we undertake the risk of nuclear war.  It seems to me maybe one of us in here should be a coward. 
 ADLAI (CONT'D) So I guess I'll be.  Our third choice is to cut a deal.  We trade Guantanamo and our missiles in Turkey, get them to pull their missiles out.  We employ a back channel, attribute the idea to U Thant. U Thant then raises it at the U.N. 
 Goddman Stevenson.  Jesus.  Peace at any price.  You'd think nobody learned anything from World War Two. 
 We have to pull him.  He's not going to be able to handle the Soviets in front of the U.N.  Zorin will eat him alive. 
 We have to try the blockades.  It probably won't work.  It may just be delaying the inevitable.  But we can't just go to war without trying not to. 
 Just can't get away from you guys. Escaping for a night on the town, eh? 
 As the town's most popular playboy, the President felt my presence would be sorely missed.  So in the interests of National Security... 
 Gotta keep up appearances.  Of course, I don't care anymore.  I'm a political dead man.  You ever seen a man cut his own throat like I did today? 
 ADLAI (CONT'D) Well, it's all right. (beat) I came to tell you, just talked to a friend.  Reston and Frankel have the story.  It's going to run tomorrow. 
 We're not going to make it to Monday. I'll try to lean on Reston, but you're going to have to call Orville Dryfoos. This is the sort of decision the publisher makes himself. 
 Yes, sir, I understand.  But we held on Bay of Pigs and it was the biggest mistake of my life.  What makes this any different? 
 All right.  But I need a reason to give my boys.  They're going to be screaming for my head on a plate. 
 Yes, Mr. President. 
 Acheson called, DeGaulle's with us; haven't heard from anyone else yet. 
 He wants to talk to LeMay again. 
 Sir, I can guarantee we'll get all the missiles we know about. 
 Mr. President, we can get better than ninety percent of them. 
 You'd worry that something was wrong if Congress offered you unconditional support. 
 We're getting the Soviet response. 
 This is all rhetoric. (realizing) They don't know how to respond yet. 
 -- run the blockade.  They'll run the blockade. 
 Which is exactly what they appear to be preparing to do, Mr. President.  We're tracking 26 ships inbound to Cuba. There's no sign they're changing course. The closest ships, the Gagarin and the Kimovsk, will make the quarantine line by this time tomorrow. 
 We're concerned about the possibility of an incident with an innocent cargo carrier.  If it turns ugly, the Russians could use an ugly incident and bad world opinion as leverage to force us to remove the quarantine. 
 Or they could use it as an excuse to escalate. 
 Admiral Anderson, if the ships do not stop, what exactly are our rules of engagement? 
 (V.O.) Russian-speakers have been transferred to all of our ships.  Once the quarantine takes effect in the morning, our ships will attempt to make radio contact with the approaching vessels. They will be ordered to reduce speed and prepare for inspection. 
 (V.O.) An inspection party will then board and search the ship.  If weapons are found, the ship will be ordered to leave the quarantine area or be towed into port upon refusal. 
 What happens if the ship doesn't stop for inspection or want to be towed? 
 A warning shot will be fired across its bow. 
 And what happens if the ship ignores the warning shot? 
 Then we fire at its rudder, disable it, and carry out the inspection. 
 Yes, sir. 
 The Navy won't let you down, sir. 
 They are continuing to proceed with the development.  We're commencing low-level photography runs this morning. 
 The pictures will be used to firm up our estimates of the missiles' readiness and develop target packages for strikes should you order them. 
 Our guy running this show is the best. Commander Bill Ecker of the Navy's VFP 62, the Fightin' Photo.  Something of a character, but the highest efficiency ratings we've ever had. 
 75 millimeter, I'm listening.  On the big screen there's nothing like it. 
 (V.O.) To protect our pilots, we're prepared to retaliate against any SAM site or anti aircraft battery that opens fire. 
 Watch out, Hollywood.  There's a new epic director in town! 
 We have a flight of Thunderchiefs able to respond within minutes of an attack on our planes. 
 I don't like what's happening. 
 All right.  'Cause you get armed boarders climbing into Soviet ships, shots being fired across bows... 
 What about these low-level flights? They're starting in what?  An hour?  Do you realize what you're letting yourself in for? 
 Fair enough.  But Castro's on alert and we're flying attack planes over their sites, on the deck.  There's no way for them to know they're carrying cameras, not bombs.  They're going to be shot at, plain and simple. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) I'm your political advisor, and I'm giving you political analysis here. This is a setup.  The Chiefs want to go in.  It's the only way they can redeem themselves for the Bay of Pigs.  They have to go in, and they have to do it right.  It's that simple. 
 They're boxing us in with these rules of engagement.  If you agree to 'em, and one of our planes gets knocked down or one of the ships won't stop for inspection, the Chiefs will have us by the balls and will force us to start shooting.  They want a war, and they're arranging things to get one.  If you don't want one, we have to do something about it. 
 Maybe it's harder for them to say it than they let on. At the very least, they believe it's in our best interest.  And at the end of the day, they may end up being right. 
 That's going to be tough.  You know how these guys are about their chains of command... 
 Mr. President. The OAS meeting starts in an hour.  I haven't prepared at all.  We can't expect -- 
 Mr. President, The Organization of American States hasn't had a unanimous vote since -- 
 White House Operator.  Yes sir. (beat, harsh, booming) Speaker McCormack, hold for the Vice President. 
 Ma'am, would you mind helping me out with a few special calls? 
 Orson Welles is a hack.  Now you want to talk about a director, you talk about David Lean... 
 Welles is a G-d.  Lean's the hack. 
 Bullshit, Bruce, nobody but Lean is making decent movies these days. (to Young Pilot) Get that fixed yet? 
 Uhhh... yup.  Think so. 
 Sir...telephone, sir. 
 VFP-62, Fightin' Photo, here.  But what we really want to do is direct. 
 This is the White House Operator.  Hold for the President. 
 Oh shit. 
 Honey, you don't know what shit is. 
 Commander, my name is Ken O'Donnell. Special Assistant to the President. 
 Yes, sir. 
 (O.S.) The President has instructed me to pass along an order to you. (beat) You are not to get shot down. 
 Uh... we'll do our best, sir. 
 I don't think you understand me correctly.  You are not to get shot down under any circumstances.  Whatever happens up there, you were not shot at. Mechanical failures are fine; crashing into mountains, fine.  But you and your men are not to be shot at, fired at, launched upon. 
 Excuse me, sir, what's going on here? 
 Commander, if you are fired upon, the President will be forced to attack the sites that fire on you.  He doesn't want to have to do that.  It's very important that he doesn't, or things could go very badly out of control. 
 I think I understand.  What about my men?  If it comes up hot and heavy, and we don't have anyone to protect us... I'm going to be writing letters to parents.  I hate writing letters to parents. 
 If the President protects you, Commander, he may have to do it with the Bomb. 
 (V.O.) I've known the man for fifteen years. The problem is, he will protect you.  So I'm asking: don't make him protect you. Don't get shot at. 
 Okay, Mr. O'Donnell.  We'll do what we can. 
 Get that fuel assayed? 
 Yeah.  It sucks.  Ain't for high performance babies like ours.  Shoulda brought some from home, but what can you do?  Last-second deployments... 
 Okay, time to play Spin the Bottle with our bearded buddy.  Nobody gets out ahead.  Remember, just sitting here we're only ten minutes from target. 
 Go to military throttle on my mark. Three...two...one... mark. 
 #1 (O.S.) Flameout flameout! 
 #2 (O.S.) Shit!  Me too! 
 Get some altitude! 
 #1 (O.S.) Oh, God damn.  Got it restarted. 
 #2 (O.S.) Yeah.  Yeah.  Me too.  Goddamn fuel. 
 #1 (O.S.) Sir, I don't think she's gonna hold up for the run. 
 Affirmative.  You two get out of here. 
 Start your camera checks. 
 #3 (O.S.) Failure.  All cameras.  Sonofabitch. Film must not have fed. 
 #4 (O.S.) Jesus!  Shit!  Oh shit!  I just shot it all, boss.  Activator jammed open, its exposing everything now. 
 (O.S.) That's alright, Lenny, it happens to most men at some time -- 
 -- Scrub, you two.  Get out of here. Still with me, Bruce? 
 (O.S.) That's affirm. 
 (O.S.) Warm 'em up.  We're here. 
 Holy shit! 
 Lights. 
 ECKER (CONT'D) Camera. 
 ECKER (CONT'D) Action. 
 You shoulda seen it, Chief, they -- 
 -- damn sparrows.  Must've been migrating.  Guess I hit a couple hundred. (to Wilhemy, stern) How many did you hit, Bruce? 
 A few.  I guess. 
 Those are bird strikes.  Sparrows to be precise.  Got a problem with that? 
 (V.O.) Massive military preparations are underway throughout the southeast in what Pentagon officials are confirming is the largest mobilization since Korea. The railways have been nationalized to assist in the deployment, here transporting elements of the U.S. 1st Armored Division from Ft. Hood, Texas. 
 Yeah? 
 Kenny.  The vote just came down. 
 Unanimous.  One abstenation. 
 Telephone, Mr. O'Donnell. 
 Hello? 
 Mr. O'Donnell, I've been ordered to deliver the film to the Pentagon personally.  What's going on? 
 The Chiefs must want to talk to you. (beat) Listen to me, Commander, they'll want to know if you were fired on.  Were you? 
 (O.S.) You could say that, sir. 
 Commander.  Do not, under any circumstances, tell the Chiefs. 
 Commander William B. Ecker reporting as ordered! 
 Son , I want to know just one thing. Those bastards shoot so much as a BB gun at you? 
 Sir, it was a milk run, sir. 
 It appears our low-level flights are getting back okay.  Some unconfirmed reports of small-arms fire from some of the missions, but that's it. 
 Still heading for Cuba. 
 (O.S.) When are you going to be home? 
 I don't know, Helen.  I want you to keep the kids close tomorrow.  Leave the T.V. on, sleep with it on in the bedroom until I tell you you can turn it off. 
 (O.S.) What's happened? 
 Nothing.  Nothing you don't know about. Tomorrow's the big day.  Just have the car ready to go if I call or if the Civil Defense Warning comes on. 
 (O.S.) What happens to you?  I'm not leaving without you. 
 I'll be evacuated with the President. 
 (O.S.) Great.  So while you're under a rock somewhere with the President, what am I supposed to do with your five children? 
 I'll find you.  But we're not going to let it come to that.  I promise. 
 Helen just asked me what sort of arrangements we have for the families. 
 I just checked myself. (beat) They're being issued identity cards. Call comes, and evacuation officers meet them at pre-arranged departure areas. They go by helicopter to Mount Weather. We meet them there. 
 Course that's for morale.  The missiles only take five minutes to get here. 
 Would you like me to call a car, Mr. O'Donnell. 
 How long will it take to get someone up? 
 Fifteen minutes, maybe.  To your house, sir? 
 No.  No, I'll let her sleep.  Let 'em sleep. 
: 
 (O.S.) Hey, guys, can you hear me? 
 I have one minute til ten here -- 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) -- and no sign of them stopping. 
 Then it looks like our first customers are the Gagarin and Kimovsk. 
 Helm, shape heading for intercept, zero one zero.  All ahead full -- 
 (O.S.) -- new contact!  New contact! 
 Submerged contact, designation Sierra one at 6000 yards bearing 030. 
 A submarine... 
 It's protecting the freighters. 
 (O.S.) I'm afraid not, Mr. President.  The sub has positioned itself between the Pierce and the Soviet ships.  Admiral Anderson insists it's too much of a risk to proceed with stopping the freighters. The Pierce would be a sitting duck for the sub. 
 Mr. President? 
 I can bring it up, Mr. President.  But whether it's damaged or not is up to the sub. 
 Even if they force it up, that sub will be inspected over the crews' dead bodies.  They'd be executed for allowing it when they got home. 
 (O.S.) Mr. President!  We're receiving reports that the ships are stopping! 
 (O.S.) Just a second, Mr. President. 
 Are they stopping? 
: 
 (O.S.) Mr. President? 
 -- we've got reports coming from all over!  The ships are stopping!  Some... are turning around! 
 We were eyeball to eyeball and I think the other fellow just blinked. 
 Mr. President. 
 MCCONE (CONT'D) Mr. President! 
 MCCONE (CONT'D) Sir, we have the tally from NSA.  We have twenty ships stopping and or turning around.  Six, however, appear to be continuing for the line.  Including the Gagarin and Kimovsk. 
 (O.S.) No, Mr. President.  They've just crossed the quarantine line. 
 It's an accident.  They must not have gotten their orders yet.  Let 'em go. 
 Unlikely, Mr. President.  We've been monitoring transmissions from both the Gagarin and Kimovsk.  Their radios are working fine. 
 One ship, an accident maybe.  Six: this is intentional. 
 They're right.  This is intentional. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Khruschev's stopped the 20 ships which are carrying contraband, and he's letting the ones which aren't go through, hoping for an incident.  I think we should let them go. 
 If we do, it erodes the credibility of the quarantine.  He'll just send more through tomorrow. 
 Then we deal with it tomorrow.  But today he's stopped most of them.  He's done something smart here.  We gave him an ultimatum, and he's agreed to most of it, preserving just enough room to save face.  We need to do something just as smart now. 
 Mr. President, I agree.  Let them go. Four of the six continuing ships are still a day away from the line.  They've stopped all the ones we suspect have weapons aboard. It would look bad shooting up a freighter full of baby food. 
 (O.S.) Yes, Mr. President.  Contact only. 
 What happened to speak when spoken to? 
 Give it a rest.  You were thinking the same thing, just didn't have the guts to take the heat. 
 Have to hope it's a signal that he'll back down on the real issue too. 
 We're going to have to stop a ship eventually, show the quarantine's got teeth, or we'll prove McCone right. 
 Then let's move the quarantine line. 
 Mr. President.  Bobby.  Kenny.  The Essex battle group has the Gagarin, Kimovsk and the sub escort under their thumb.  We've got a few hours now before we need to worry about any more flashpoints on the line. (beat) We could use a few more hours.  I think we should consider moving the quarantine line back to 500 miles. 
 Moving the line.  Stroke of genius. 
 (snappish) Of course it is.  But the President needs to realize we're going to have to stop a ship eventually. 
 The Chiefs are looking for a provocation out there.  The President's going to come under enormous pressure.  You have to keep 'em on a short leash, Bob. 
 You must think I'm blind and stupid. I've already gotten the birds and bees from Bobby.  The President doesn't have to double-barrel me. 
 Listen to me, goddamn it.  We're talking about a possible nuclear war.  You dropped the ball on Bay of Pigs -- 
 -- you sonofabitch, goddamn it, I didn't drop -- 
 You were in the room.  It was your purview.  It was your job to make sure Bissel wasn't fucking us over and you didn't do it.  You've got the most important job in the world right now. You're the smartest guy the President has. (beat) Besides me. 
 Anybody ever tell you you're an egomaniac and a prick, O'Donnell? 
 You need to be the best you've ever been. 
 (V.O.) -- well, it appears the world has just received a reprieve.  Defense Secretary Robert McNamara has announced that the quarantine zone has been moved from 800 to 500 miles. 
 Find out how close our exercises are coming to their cruise missiles.  I'm calling you back in five, and you will have an answer for me or I will come down there and beat the shit out of you. (beat) Then you can press charges, and I'll get a Presidential pardon. 
 (V.O.) Mr. President, the orders were limited to our strategic forces in the continental U.S. 
 Technically, General LeMay is correct that SAC has the statutory authority -- 
 We are not at war, sir, not until we're at DEFCON 1. 
 LeMay... he's history. 
 Jesus... 
 Rescind the order.  Can all the Chiefs. Put Nitze, Gilpatric and the Undersecretaries in charge. 
 We can't do that, Bobby. 
 And we can't purge the Chiefs.  Our invasion talk will look like a bluff. Or even that there's been an attempted coup. 
 McNamara won't be able to handle them. It's too much for one man... (knowing look to Kenny) ...with all due respect to our heroic fifth column. 
 We've got Khruschev's attention with the blockade.  If we want a political solution.  I think it's time to turn up the diplomatic heat.  Cause if we let this go on too long, we're going to find ourselves in a war. 
 What did you think of Lippman's column this morning? 
 I think it's a bad idea. 
 Thank God.  Look, everyone is furious about it.  We trade away our missiles in Turkey and we're fucked politically. 
 BUNDY (CONT'D) You gotta stop 'em.  We know it's Jack and Bobby's idea - they leaked it to Lippman.  The military guys are going ape, and they're not alone. 
 Then they should speak up. 
 Christ, Ken, you know it's not that easy. 
 Yes it is. 
 No it isn't.  They don't trust the people that feel this way.  But these people are right.  And the Kennedys are wrong. (beat) We need you to tell 'em, Kenny.  They'll listen to you. 
 BUNDY (CONT'D) Jack and Bobby are good men.  But it takes a certain character, moral toughness to stand up to -- 
 -- You listen to me.  Nobody, nobody, talks about my friends that way.  You're fucking here right now because of the Kennedys.  They may be wrong.  They make mistakes.  But they're not weak. The weak ones are these 'people' who can't speak their own minds. 
 You know I don't mean they're weak. 
 No, they just lack 'moral toughness.' And you think I'll play your Judas.  You WASPS and blue-bloods never understood us, thinking we want into your club. Well we got our own club now. (beat) And you guys don't realize fighting with each other is our way.  Nobody plays us off each other.  And nobody ever gets between us... 
 Oh, just a bunch of crap about withdrawing our Jupiter missiles in Turkey if the Soviets'll do the same in Cuba. 
 If we made a trade, we'd be giving in to extortion, and NATO would never trust us again.  We'll get clobbered in world opinion. 
 Then somebody'd better deny it publicly. 
 Yeah, a good political solution. 
 
 Adlai's too weak!  We have to convince Jack to pull him, get McCloy in there. 
 You can't take him out this late in the game. 
 Zorin will eat him alive! 
 Then talk to your brother, goddamn it. The two of you don't need any advice to get into trouble. 
 What's gotten into you? 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Oh, still sore about this. 
 Something your father would've come up with. 
 My father -- 
 -- I'm just trying to make a point. This idea is that fucking bad. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Adlai can handle Zorin.  He knows the inning and the score. 
 He better.  Because nobody thinks he's up to this.  Nobody. 
 Yes? 
 Adlai, it's Kenny.  How're you doing? 
 Busy, Ken. What do you need? 
 The President told me to pass the word to you: stick it to them. 
 Adlai.  The world has to know we're right.  If we're going to have a chance at a political solution, we need international pressure.  You got to be tough, Adlai.  You need to find it, old friend. 
 I hear you.  I'm glad it's you calling. I thought it would be Bobby.  If they're still sticking to their stonewall strategy, I'll get 'em. (beat) Thanks, Ken. 
 ADLAI (CONT'D) I'm an old political cat, Jimmy. (beat) But I've got one life left. 
 Wait here. 
 (through translator) ...we call upon the world to condemn this purely American provocation... 
 (through translator) We are glad you could join us, Mr. Stevenson. 
 ZORIN (CONT'D) For the last couple of hours I have heard nothing but questions from the world here.  The United States has led us to the brink of calamity.  The peoples of the world want to know why. We are told again and again of this so called incontrovertible evidence of offensive weapons in Cuba.  Yet we are not allowed to see this evidence.  Are your spy planes so secret you cannot share this evidence with us?  Some planes?! 
 ZORIN (CONT'D) Or perhaps there is no such evidence. Perhaps the United States is mistaken. 
 I make the call, and Adlai is out. McCloy goes in. 
 The United States has no facts in hand. Falsity is what America has in its hands - false evidence. 
 ZORIN (CONT'D) The chair recognizes the representative from the United States. 
 Well, let me say something to you, Mr. Ambassador, we do have the evidence.  We have it, and it is clear and incontrovertible. 
 ADLAI (CONT'D) And let me say something else.  Those weapons must be taken out of Cuba.  You, the Soviet Union, have created this new danger, not the United States. 
 Come on, Adlai! 
 Mr. Zorin, I remind you that the other day you did not deny the existence of these weapons.  But today, again, if I heard you correctly, you now say they do not exist. 
 Come on, Adlai, don't let him off! 
 John?  It's Bobby.  Get ready to send your staffer in.  He's going to be coming out. 
 All right, sir.  Let me ask you one simple question.  Do you, Ambassador Zorin, deny that the U.S.S.R. has placed and is placing medium and intermediate range missiles and sites in Cuba?  Yes or no - don't wait for the translation - yes or no? 
 Yeah.  Yeah. 
 I am not in an American courtroom, sir, and therefore I do not wish to answer a question that is put to me in the fashion in which a prosecutor puts questions.  In due course, sir, you will have your answer. 
 You are in the courtroom of world opinion right now, and you can answer yes or no.  You have denied they exist, and I want to know if I have understood you correctly. 
 John, I'll get back to you. 
 And I'm prepared to present the evidence in this room, proving that the Soviet Union has lied to the world. 
 If you do not choose to continue your statement, the Chair recognizes the representative from Chile. 
 I yield my time and the floor to the representative to the United States. 
 Well then, ladies and gentlemen, since it appears we might be here for a while, shall we have a look at what the Soviets are doing in Cuba? 
 Zorin must not have gotten instructions. Somebody in their Foreign Ministry's blown it big-time. 
 Mr. President... 
 ...the ship is called Groznyy. 
 (V.O.) We lost track of it yesterday at nightfall.  We thought we gave it plenty of room when we moved the quarantine line back.  We just reacquired it. 
 It crossed the line hours ago. 
 Hail them again. 
 We're kidding ourselves... 
 Very well.  Load your guns. 
 What was that, Admiral? 
 We've been hailing the Groznyy for the last hour, Mr. Secretary.  The Groznyy refuses to stop. 
 What are you doing? 
 Carrying out our mission, Mr. Secretary. If you don't mind, we're very busy right now.  We need to be able to do our jobs. 
 Admiral, I asked you a question. 
 We're going to follow the Rules of Engagement.  The Rules of Engagement which the President has approved and signed in his order of October 23rd. 
 What -- 
 GODDAMNIT, STOP THAT FIRING! 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) Jesus Christ, God help us. 
 That ship was firing starshells. Starshells.  Flares, Mr. Secretary. 
 Starshells. 
 Get out of our way, Mr. Secretary.  The navy has been running blockades since the days of John Paul Jones. 
 I believe the President made it clear that there would be no firing on ships without his express permission. 
 With all due respect, Mr. Secretary, we were not firing on the ship.  Firing on a ship means attacking the ship.  We were not attacking the ship.  We were firing over it. 
 This was not the President's intention when he gave that order.  What if the Soviets don't see the distention?  What if they make the same mistake I just did? (beat) There will be no firing anything near ANY Soviet ships without my express permission, is that understood, Admiral? 
 Yes, sir. 
 And I will only issue such instructions when ordered to by the President. (beat) John Paul Jones... you don't understand a thing, do you, Admiral? 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) This isn't a blockade. 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) This, all this, is language, a new vocabulary the likes of which the world has never seen. This is President Kennedy communicating with Secretary Khruschev. 
 (V.O.) At 7:29 this morning, the U.S.S. Joseph Kennedy stopped and boarded the Soviet charter vessel Marcula. 
 Kenny, we need to see the President. Something's happened. 
 I have lunch with him maybe once a month.  Way he talks, he acts like he knows Khruschev personally, but he's never elaborated.  I've used him as a source in a couple of stories. 
 The FBI has identified this Alexander Fomin as the Soviet Resident, the KGB equivalent of one of our station chiefs. He's their highest ranking spy in this country.  And he knows John's a friend of mine. 
 All the trademarks of a back-channel overture. 
 I think... this may be our first real message from Khruschev. 
 The alternative, Mr. President, is that this could be a trap. 
 Dangle a settlement, tie us down in negotiations, we come up short... 
 Why else would they approach us in this way?  It's deniable.  The Soviets have done nothing but lie to us.  This could be more of the same. 
 That may be why Khruschev's introducing this guy.  We've been burned by his usual players in the formal channels, so he brings in an honest broker. 
 That may be what they want us to think. 
 The truth is, Mr. President, we don't even really know whom Fomin speaks for. It could be Khruschev. It could be some faction in the Politburo or the KGB itself.  We just don't know. 
 By the way, Scali, your activities now fall under the secrecy codicils of the National Security Act.  Sorry, no Pulitzer. 
 Mr. President, we don't have much time. I'm supposed to meet with him again in three and a half hours. 
 Mr. President, I'm afraid we have some bad news.  We're getting GMAIC estimates from our latest low-level overflights. It appears the missiles are two to three days away from operational status. 
 So we don't have much time to play out back-channel communiques. 
 The quarantine, sir, is not producing results.  The Chiefs feel it's time you take another look at our options. 
 Okay.  So, what we've got is this guy Alexander Feklisov, aka Alexander Fomin, declared Consul to the Soviet Embassy, but in reality the KGB Papa Spy.  An illustrious tour of duty during the Great Patriotic War gets him on the Party fast track, various tours of duty in KGB, American postings.  He's an expert on us, and... that's all we've got on Papa Spy. 
 Who's he talking for?  Is it Khruschev, or is this more bullshit? 
 KENNY (CONT'D) How do you become the KGB top spy in the United States? 
 Gotta know someone. 
 Politics is politics.  Walter. (whirling on Agents) Khruschev is the Moscow Party Boss under Stalin.  Give me their career chronologies! 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Every time Khruschev moves up, Fomin does within a year... (tracing up the list) Khruschev was the administrator in charge of preparing Moscow's defenses during the war.  And Fomin... was here in the U.S. 
 They know each other.  They're war buddies. 
 It's thin.  But real life usually is. 
 Hello? 
 They know each other!  Khruschev and Feklisov aka Fomin were war buddies! 
 Don't take it to court, but we've got good circumstantial evidence... (off Walter's nod) Walter agrees.  My gut's telling me Khruschev's turning to a trusted old friend to carry his message. 
 I am instructed to tell you that the American Government would respond favorably to an offer along the lines you have discussed.  If this solution were raised at the U.N. by Ambassador Zorin, he would find a favorable reply from Ambassador Stevenson. 
 So I understand you correctly.  If the missiles in Cuba were dismantled, returned to the Soviet Union, and a guarantee was made not to reintroduce them, the United States would be prepared to guarantee that it would never invade Cuba? 
 That is correct. 
 This is from the Highest Authority? 
 Yes.  From the Highest Authority.  There are two conditions.  The U.N. must be allowed to inspect the removal of the missiles. 
 And, of course, the U.N. must be allowed to observe the redeployment of forces from the American Southeast. 
 FOMIN (CONT'D) And the second condition? 
 Time is of the essence. 
 John.  How much time? 
 48 hours.  In 48 hours there can be no deals. 
 He left right away.  Got the feeling he meant business. 
 Mr. President, we're receiving a letter from Khruschev over at State. 
 ...two...of...us...pull...on...the... knot...of...war... 
 It's ten pages of sentimental fluff, but he's saying right here.  He'll remove the missiles in return for a no-invasion pledge.  It looks like Fomin's overture was genuine. 
 Our early analysis says this was probably written by Khruschev himself. It's a first draft, and shows no signs of being polished by the foreign ministry.  In fact, it probably hasn't been approved by the Politburo.  They wouldn't have let the emotionalism go by.  The analysts say it was written by someone under considerable stress. 
 Hi. 
 Hi, O'Donnell.  You look old. 
 HELEN (CONT'D) This job's going to kill you.  If I don't first. 
 HELEN (CONT'D) If you're home it means either Jack and Bobby have finally figured out what a con man you are and fired you, or -- 
 -- we got a back channel communication from Khruschev this evening feeling us out about a deal.  He confirmed it just a little while ago in a letter to the President.  I think we've won. 
 A thing like this... who could even think of winning? 
 Where've you been?  We've been trying to find you all morning. 
 Helen and I went out for breakfast. EXCOM's not supposed to convene til eight. 
 We just got a second letter from Khruschev.  The deal's off. 
 We're getting everyone together as fast as we can. 
 What does the letter say? 
 They want us to take our missiles out of Turkey along with the no invasion pledge.  It looks like Fomin was a ploy after all, and they were just stalling for time. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) It gets worse. 
 My specialists are in agreement: this morning's letter is not Khruschev.  Last night's letter was. (beat) The evidence supports only one conclusion: there has been a coup, and Khruschev was replaced overnight. 
 Jesus Christ... 
 It doesn't necessarily mean there's been a coup.  Khruschev's name is signed to the letter. 
 Aw, come on, Dean! 
 But at the very least... It does suggest he's been co-opted by hard line elements. 
 Which at the end of the day is the same thing as a coup.  A puppet Khruschev, and a hard-line Soviet government pulling the strings.  No deal.  And the missiles are almost operational. 
 Mr. President, agreeing to such a trade would be tantamount to paying ransom. They'll put a gun to our head again, and expect us to pay again. 
 We can't sell out one of our friends for our own safety.  NATO wouldn't trust us anymore, and they'd be right not to. 
 Mr. President, there is another possibility we haven't considered.  This may not be a coup at all. 
 Designed to keep us from taking action. 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) I hate to say it, but if I had to bet, I'd bet Max is right.  What if they have no intention of honoring this deal, either? Then tomorrow they add another condition.  Meanwhile, the quarantine isn't working and they're continuing to work on the missile sites. (beat) I think we have to consider issuing warning orders for our forces. 
 Mr. President... 
 LUNDAHL (CONT'D) This morning's photography is in.  It appears the Soviets have commenced a crash program to ready the missiles. 
 (V.O.) The first missiles became operational last night. 
 LUNDAHL (V.O.) (CONT'D) We expect they'll all be operational in 36 hours: Monday morning. 
 Then we're out of time.  We have to go in. 
 That may not be as easy as we thought either.  We've gotten confirmation that the Soviets have also deployed battlefield nuclear weapons to Cuba. 
 FROGS, we call 'em.  Short range tactical nukes.  It's possible they've delegated release authority to their local commanders for use against our invasion troops.  It'd be standard doctrine. (beat) Our capability to get all the missiles has eroded during our delay with the quarantine.  The good news is that for the moment we know where the FROGS are, and we can target them, too.  But the longer we wait, the hard it's going to get. 
 Understood, sir.  We need to step up the overflights, finalize our pilots' target folders in order to be able to carry out the strikes. 
 This is Major Anderson. 
 (O.S.) Hello?  Anyone there? 
 Major, my name is Kenneth O'Donnell. Special Assistant to the President. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Major, a few days ago the President ordered me to help him keep control of what's going on out there.  I've been browbeating pilots, navy guys left and right to make sure you don't get us here in Washington into trouble.  But you know what?  We're pretty damn good at getting ourselves into trouble.  So instead of riding your ass, I'm just going to tell you what's going on, and let you figure out how best to help us out up here. 
 Go ahead, sir. 
 Last night, we looked like we were going to cut a deal to get us all out of this mess.  Today, the Soviets are reneging. We're going to try to salvage the situation, but a lot of things are going wrong today.  It's making everyone nervous, and it will be very hard to avoid going to war.  Don't get shot down, Major.  Beyond that, whatever else you can do to help us, I'd really appreciate it. 
 When you're up there at 72,000 feet, there's a million things that can go wrong.  Is your oxygen mix right?  Will your cameras freeze up?  Are you leaving contrail... (beat) Those million things are beyond your control, mostly... But you know, when you realize that, there's a kind of peace.  You don't need to be in control. You never were in control in the first place.  If you're a good man, and your ground crew are good men, it's all you can ask for.  And with the grace of G-d, it'll get you through. 
 Thank you, Major. 
 This is flight G3132, requesting permission for take-off. 
 (O.S.) G3132, you've got runway one, you are cleared to proceed to Angels 72. 
 Roger that. 
 (O.S.) Kenny! 
 The Soviets are in control of the SAMs. It's hard to believe with their centralized command structure that it could be an accidental launch. 
 Mr. President, taken with the events of the past few hours, I believe this confirms our worst fears.  We're now dealing with a hard-line Soviet government, perhaps with Khruschev as a puppet head, perhaps not. 
 It could be a mistake. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) We need to be positive before we react. 
 A U-2 on a routine air-sampling mission over Siberia got lost and penetrated Soviet airspace.  The Soviets scrambled MIGs in pursuit, thinking it was a bomber.  It got out okay.  Somebody forgot to cancel the mission. 
 Mr. President, our pilots are in danger. We must order punitive airstrikes against the SAM site that shot down Major Anderson per our rules of engagement. 
 I think that's a good idea, Mr. President.  It'll be safer for my boys to get those SAMs on Monday when we get the rest of the bastards.  I can wait a day and a half. 
 Hey!  Dad! 
 Hey, sport.  You winning? 
 Yeah. 
 KEVIN (CONT'D) Is everything going to be okay, Dad? 
 Yeah, Kev.  Everything's gonna be fine. 
 I guess you won't be coming home tonight. 
 I, uh... 
 Kenny!  We need to talk. 
 Get back out there, kid.  Remember to hit 'em hard. 
 What about you?  Where are you going? 
 Back to work. 
 If we're going to make a deal, we're going to have to do it fast.  This is only getting out of control.  The only reason we're not at war this very minute is he's been able to stretch, bend and break his own rules.  He won't be able to keep it up forever. 
 And? 
 And Jack wants to trade the missiles in Turkey. 
 The Jupiters are obsolete.  They were supposed to have been dismantled last summer anyway -- 
 -- Jesus, Mary and Joseph.  I told you how stupid it was to float the Lippman article!  But you wouldn't listen to me. What if there hasn't been a coup at all? What if it's you two who invited that second letter by raising the possibility of a trade? 
 KENNY (CONT'D) And if the two of you are thinking this trade is your ace in the hole, you're so wrong.  It's a deuce. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) And it's not just me who thinks that. Everyone on this so-called EXCOM is telling you exactly the same thing: make the trade, and they're going to force us into trade after trade until finally they demand something we won't trade like Berlin, and we do end up in a war. (beat) Not to mention, that long before that happens, this government will be politically dead. 
 All right, so maybe we overestimated how reasonable this trade would look.  Okay? You happy?  So now what? 
 So now you've got to talk him out of it. And then we've got to figure out an acceptable political solution. 
 And if there has been a coup and there is no acceptable political solution? 
 Whatever response we send, it will take several hours for the wire to be received by our embassy and delivered to the Kremlin.  So we're looking at early tomorrow morning at the earliest before Khruschev could respond. 
 He gets it, but he's pissed. 
 It depends on if we really believe there's been a coup. 
 I agree.  If there has been a coup, and there's a hard-line government in power now, then it doesn't matter what we say. The end of the day we'll either agree to their terms, they'll agree to ours, or we'll go to war.  But what if there hasn't been a coup?  What if... what if what is happening is a series of accidents? 
 The second letter is an accident? 
 No.  The letter is an intentional, but it's having an effect far greater than its authors intended. (beat) What if our Jupiter missiles are just a last minute haggle to salvage something? Maybe a bone Khruschev is throwing to the hard line, not really caring if we reject it or not? (beat) And then these accidents have happened. 
 Making the second letter and the overall picture look worse than it really is. 
 The Guns of August. 
 Exactly. (beat) If they're sane and human like we are, then maybe we just refuse, and they'll let it slide, like we've been letting things slide. 
 So we reject the second letter. 
 No.  We don't reject it... 
 ... We accept the first letter and pretend the second doesn't exist. 
 It won't work -- 
 MCCONE (CONT'D) -- because it's wishful thinking!  It's the same wishful thinking that blinded us all these months while the Soviets were sneaking those missiles in under our noses! 
 Ignore the second letter, agree to the conditions of the first... 
 There's no reason to believe the Soviets will let it go. 
 Max is right.  Why will they accept it? 
 It can work.  If, IF they believe we'll hit them. 
 MCNAMARA (CONT'D) We've only got time for one more round of diplomacy.  The first airstrikes start in less than 36 hours. 
 But we have to make them agree to it. So how do we do that? 
 And we do it under the table so we can disavow any knowledge of it. 
 It's transparent.  The press'll be all over it. 
 Six months from now, I'm not going to care.  Are you?  We'll deal with it. 
 At least it will expose whether Khruschev has been overthrown.  We'll know what we're dealing with. 
 And if this is a move to appease the hard line, then it may just be the bone he needs to regain control of his own house. 
 Whoever carries the message has to hit the nail on the head.  Come across as too soft, they'll push us.  Too hard, they'll be cornered and even more dangerous. 
 They could pre-empt. 
 What do you want?  A good-bye kiss? 
 Hey, Kenny. 
 Hey, Joe.  Listen, I'll take care of him.  Go ahead in, grab some coffee. We'll be back pretty quick. 
 You sure? 
 What's the matter with you?  Forget how to open a car door? 
 Jesus, you rich people. 
 I don't know if I can do this. 
 There's nobody else I'd rather have going in there. 
 KENNY (CONT'D) Nobody else I'd trust Helen and the kids' lives to. 
 Take a left. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) We gave so much to get here.  I don't know.  Sometimes I think what the hell did we do it for? 
 Because we knew we could do a better job than everyone else. 
 You know... I hate being called the brilliant one.  The ruthless one.  They guy who does the dirty work.  The one everybody's afraid of. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) I hate it.  I'm not smart, you know. And I'm not so ruthless. 
 You're right about the smart part, but ruthless, well... 
 
 Slow down.  Smell that? 
 Smoke. 
 Just wanted to see for myself. (beat) They're burning their documents. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) They think we're going to war.  G-d help us, Ken. 
 #1 Sir, Ambassador Dobrynin is already here.  We have him waiting in your office. 
 I'll whistle up some luck for you. 
. 
 The friend. 
 Ambassador Dobrynin, we are aware that at this moment your missiles in Cuba are at the brink of operational readiness... 
 (V.O.) They are a vital threat to my country. If launched, they would kill 80 million Americans. 
 My brother, my friends, my countrymen and I cannot and will not permit those missiles to become operational. (beat) I promise you that. 
 Then I fear our two nations will go to war.  And I fear where war will lead us. 
 If the missiles do not become operational, if you remove the missiles, then there will be no war. (beat) At this moment, the President is accepting the terms of Secretary Khruschev's letter of Friday night.  If the Soviet Union halts construction immediately, removes the missiles, and submits to U.N. inspection, the United States will pledge to never invade Cuba or aid others in that enterprise. 
 If your Jupiter missiles in Turkey were removed also, such an accommodation could be reached. 
 (tired sounding) The United States cannot agree to such terms under threat.  Any belief to the contrary -- (beat) -- was in error. 
 You want war... 
 However, while there can be no quid pro quo on this issue, the United States can offer a private assurance. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Our Jupiter missiles in Turkey are obsolete, and have been scheduled for withdrawal for some time.  This withdrawal should be completed within, say, six months. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) Of course, any public disclosure of this assurance would negate the deal and produce the most stringent denials from our government. 
 This private assurance represents the word of the Highest Authority? 
 Yes. 
 And it can be relayed beyond Comrade Khruschev's ears to the top circles of my government 
 Of course.  Our pledge can be relayed to any government official Secretary Khruschev sees fit to satisfy. 
 BOBBY (CONT'D) With the caveat that it is not made public in any way, shape or form. (beat) And we must have an answer tomorrow at the latest.  I cannot stress this point enough. 
 Tomorrow... 
 Tomorrow... 
 Then you must excuse me and permit me to relay the substance of our discussion to my superiors. 
 DOBRYNIN (CONT'D) We have heard stories that some among your military men wish for war. (beat) You are a good man.  Your brother is a good man.  I assure you there are other good men.  Let us hope the will of good men is enough to counter the terrible strength of this thing which has been put in motion. 
 (O.S.) We're out here. 
 He didn't have to worry about nuclear weapons. 
 All he had was his character. 
 How does a guy get a rep like that? 
 -- he kept the peace. 
 I saw you out there.  You want him to call you back, need you. 
 No.  I'm glad I'm home. 
 How long do we have? 
 If the sun rises in the morning, it is only because of men of goodwill. (beat) And that's all there is between us and the Devil. 
 Yeah? 
 (O.S.) Kenny.  It's over. 
 (O.S.) This is Radio Moscow.  Moscow calling. 
 We've been talking.  We can play this big in '64.  It's the foreign policy trophy we've been waiting. 
 BUNDY (CONT'D) I think we can ride it all the way home next election.  Bet you're way ahead of us, eh? 
 We've ordered crash reassessment of our major geopolitical hotspots.  We've got a lot of new clout, and we can run the table on the Soviets.  Middle East, Southeast Asia... 
 What's wrong, O'Donnell? 
 Don't you understand? 
 Understand what? 
 The sun came up today. 
 Yeah. 
 It shouldn't have.  But it did. 
 We were lucky we were able to keep it under control. 
 Every day the sun comes up... says something about us. 
 Says what, Kenny? 
 Something... amazing. 
 Sure, Ken.  I understand.  Feels good to win, doesn't it? 
 See you later, Kenny. 
 You know... 
 KENNY (CONT'D) ...this was what we're here for. 
: 
: 
