 O'CONNOR (not unfriendly) Ted, will you take it easy? Revlon's not about to drop an account that represents more than two million in gross billing receipts in a small agency like this, without making us sweat. Now just relax, okay? Everything's gonna be fine. 
 (intense) I love you, Billy... 
 
 Sleep tight... 
 
 O'CONNOR Here's to Ted Kramer. 
 O'CONNOR (putting an arm around Ted squeezing him tight) I wanna tell you something about this little runt. He went out there and sold the shit out of Revlon and that's why we got the account. It was his idea, it was his concept, right down the line... 
 (interrupting) Congratulations, Ted. That was a hell of a job. 
 Got to get home. 
 
 O'CONNOR Hey, what's the rush? C'mon, walk me a couple of blocks. 
 O'CONNOR Listen, Ted... I just want to tell you, when old man Schmidt retires next year, I've got a pretty good feeling they'll kick me upstairs... 
 O'CONNOR ...and when they do, I just want you to know I'm takin' you along with me. 
 O'CONNOR (feeling no pain) Y'know, Ted, I mean what I said back there. You did a hell of a job on this and I want you to know I'm turning the whole show over to you. 
 O'CONNOR I mean it Ted, you're running this one. 
 
 (she takes a deep breath, then:) Ted, I'm leaving you. 
 Here are my keys. I won't be needing them any more. 
 My American Express... My Bloomingdale's Credit Card... My check book – 
 (ignoring this) I took two thousand out of the savings account. That was what I had in the bank when we got married. 
 Here are the slips for the laundry and the cleaning. They'll be ready on Saturday. 
 (not bothering to look up) I've paid the rent, the Con-Ed and the phone bill, so you don't have to worry about them. 
 There, that's everything. 
 
 Look, it's not your fault, okay? It's me. It's my fault – you just married the wrong person. 
 Ted, you're not listening to me. It's over, finished. 
 (bitter) You just don't get it, do you? (as though to a child) I – am – really – and – truly – leaving – you. 
 No you didn't. (quietly) You didn't even ask about Billy. 
 I'm not taking him with me. 
 (tears start) Ted, I can't... I tried... I really tried but... I just can't hack it anymore... 
 (from her gut) I am not! I'm a terrible mother! I'm an awful mother. I yell at him all the time. I have no patience. No... No. He's better off without me. (unable to look at Ted) Ted, I've got to go... I've got to go. 
 (pleading) NO!... Please... Please don't make me stay... I swear... If you do, sooner or later... maybe tomorrow, maybe next week... maybe a year from now... (looking directly at him) I'll go right out the window. 
 I don't know... 
 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (obviously asleep) Huh... Hello? 
 WOMAN'S VOICE Ted, what are you talking about?! 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (exasperated) Ted, I don't understand a word you're saying. Where's Joanna? 
 (looking around, suspiciously) All right. What's going on? 
 Look, Ted, all I – 
 Ted, all I wanted to know was where – 
 OhmyGod. Didn't she say anything? She must've said something. 
 Ted, don't be so hostile. 
 (how to say this) Ted, Joanna and I used to talk a lot and... well, she told me a lot of... ah, things about the two of you. 
 (clearly she knows more than she's willing to say) I mean... things. Ted, Joanna's very unhappy and – 
 (getting mad herself) What d'you know about how Joanna felt? You went off to an office every morning and you'd come dragging home at seven or eight every night and as long as dinner was on the table you thought everything was swell. 
 (exasperated) So she's late. What's the big deal. That's just a way of saying, "Pay attention to me." 
 Oh for shit's sake, Ted, you are the most selfish human being I have ever met. No wonder she said you came first, then Billy, then, if there was anything left over, she got the scraps. 
 Maybe she didn't feel like she should have to. Maybe she felt like if you'd been paying any real attention to her to start with, maybe you would've noticed. 
 (stiffly) No. 
 Ted, divorce is a terrible thing. I know, I went through it. You've got to believe I did everything I could to get Joanna to stay. (pause) But I'll tell you something. You may not want to hear it, but it took a lot of courage for Joanna to do what she just did. 
 Joanna left Billy? She didn't take him with her? 
 (stunned, quiet) Oh Shit. 
: 
 
 
 
 REACTION – BILLY 
 ON A BUS 
 (cheerful) Congratulations, Mr. Kramer. 
 Terrific news, Ted. 
 O'CONNOR Hey... Look who was out celebrating last night. 
 O'CONNOR Jesus Christ. That's a real blockbuster. (shakes his head) I always figured you guys had it made. 
 O'CONNOR (stiff upper lip) Listen, don't let it get you down. (doesn't believe it for a second) You're going to be fine. 
 O'CONNOR Look, Ted, I'm the oldest whore on the beat, okay? Three marriages, two divorces... You're gonna be okay. 
 O'CONNOR (emphatically) She'll be back... 
 O'CONNOR (trying to be tactful) But... just in case... I mean, just on the off chance she doesn't. What are you going to do about the kid? 
 O'CONNOR (a friend having to say something very difficult) Look, it's none of my business, so you can tell me to butt out, okay? But if you want my advice, you'll send Billy away to stay with relatives for a while. Just until you get yourself straightened out. 
 O'CONNOR (the Dutch uncle) Ted, this may sound a little rough, but we've just landed the biggest account in the history of this agency, right? And now it's up to us – that's you and me – to deliver the goods. Ted, you're my main man, and if I can't depend on you a hundred and ten percent, twenty-four hours a day, because you're worried about a kid with a runny nose – 
 ON O'CONNOR 
 O'CONNOR I hope you're right, Ted... I really hope you're right. 
 
 Oh, God... OhmyGod... 
 What are you going to do? 
 I mean, what are you going to do about Billy? 
 Look, this is nothing personal, but I don't think you can do it. 
 (backing off) All right... Okay... But let's get something straight, right now. I mean, I'm sorry about what happened between you and Joanna, but it's not my problem, understand? 
 I'm not going to have you calling every fifteen minutes just because you can't find a hot water bottle, understand? 
 I've got enough trouble raising my own kid. I don't need another one. Got it? 
 You're on your own, understand? 
 You're sure? 
 
 All right. Who's Billy's pediatrician? 
 (machine-gun delivery) Ed Davies. 230 East 76th Street. 472- 8227. Fifty bucks a house call, thirty for an office visit. Write this down: I'm not telling you twice. What's the nearest hospital? 
 (not waiting) Lenox Hill. 77th Street between Park and Lex. The emergency number is 327- 0800. 
 Colors in one pile, white things in another and shirts in a third. 
 (without looking around) Brush the teeth. Hang up the towel and flush the toilet. 
 
 
 O'CONNOR (O.S.) (calling out) Hey, Ted. C'mon in. I wanna' talk to you. 
 O'CONNOR (jovial) What's the big rush. C'mon in, put your feet up, have a drink. 
 O'CONNOR (paying no attention to that) Listen, I heard a terrific joke today. There's this Polish skydiver – 
 O'CONNOR Murray? Jim O'Connor, why don't you drop by and have a drink... 
 
 MRS. KLINE That's all right, but I'm afraid Billy was a little nervous... (she glances off screen) 
 
 MRS. KLINE Goodbye, Bill. Thank you for coming. (calling out to her son in the next room) Mark. Say goodbye to Bill. 
 (O.S.) (preoccupied) Bye. 
 
 (looking around nervous) It's very big... They didn't tell me it was this big. 
 (sniffing) Phew... This place is a real pig sty. 
 Don't tell me your troubles, mister. I got enough of my own. 
 The first thing is, I don't do floors. 
 O'CONNOR Ted. 
 (ignoring him) Or windows. I come in at ten and I get Wednesdays off. 
 O'CONNOR Ted. 
 MRS. WILLEWSKA What kind of boy is your son? 
 REACTION – TED 
 MRS. WILLEWSKA Could I see him? 
 MRS. WILLEWSKA Oh... He's very beautiful. 
 MRS. WILLEWSKA (O.S.) Mr. Kramer, you are a very lucky man. 
 REACTION, TED 
 MAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Walk him over to Bethesda Fountain and buy him an ice. 
 Walk him over to Bethesda Fountain, buy him an ice. It'll kill twenty minutes. 
 Tough... (checking his watch) ...I get off duty at five-thirty. (bored, anxious to make conversation) How long you been divorced? 
 You've got that look. My lady and I split two years ago in August and I'm an old pro at this shit. First thing, stay away from the Children's Zoo. It's pure hell – if I never see another chicken, I'll be happy. (calling out to his daughter OFF SCREEN) I'm here, darling. Don't worry... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ladies and gentlemen... 
 Welcome to the greatest show on earth. 
 Greatest. 
 Show. 
 On earth. 
 Mr. Kramer, I just wanted to tell you what a wonderful boy your son is. 
 (solicitously) No... No... Billy is doing just fine. 
 (effusive) Barbara! Congratulations! When is the baby due? 
 TEACHER (BARBARA) Oh, God. Not 'til August. 
 Excuse me. You said you wanted to talk, Mr. Kramer. 
 Mr. O'Connor called. There's a meeting with the Revlon people in the board room and you're fifteen minutes late. 
 Mr. Schmidt can't have the figures on the television buy until Monday. 
 Mr. Lombardo from packaging wants to meet on Friday. 
 And Mrs. Kelsey called to ask if Billy can come to Stephanie's birthday party on Tuesday. 
 ON O'CONNOR 
 O'CONNOR (sardonic) If it's all right with you, Mother Kramer, can we get down to work now? 
 
 Hello, Kramer. 
 Sure. 
 
 
 Yes. 
 (looks up, serious) Yes, I'll have dinner with you. 
 Kramer, I've got to go. I've got an eight o'clock closing tomorrow down on Centre Street. 
 (as she crosses the hall on the way to the bathroom) That's okay. It's just that I've got these clients that are – 
 
 (softly to herself) Oh, God. 
 
 (hoping desperately it is the right answer) Ah... Yes. 
 
 (eyes wide) I just met your son. 
 He wanted to know if I liked fried chicken. 
 No, not really... (she thinks for a moment, then:) I guess it's different if you don't have children, but... I dunno, even if Charley and I don't live together, even if we're sleeping with other people, even if Charley was to marry again... He'd still be my husband. That stuff about "Till death do you part?" That's really true. 
 (without bothering to look in the book) Three. And add some basil. 
 No. I don't think so. 
 Look, I know this isn't gonna make any sense, okay? I mean forget the logic part... But I keep thinking if Charley really loved me, he wouldn't have let me divorce him. 
 
 (impatient) No, no, no, Kramer. That's not how you do it. Look... 
 ...you hold it like this... (showing him her grip) Farther down the bat. And you swing like this... (to Ted) Throw me one. 
 
 
 O'CONNOR (innocent) Murray had some ideas about the Fire and Ice campaign and he had the art department make up a few roughs... (weakly) I think they're kind of interesting. 
 (oily) Ted, basically it's still your concept. 
 O'CONNOR (chiming in) Murray just added a few things, that's all. 
 O'CONNOR Yeah? 
 O'CONNOR It's for you. 
 (smooth) Ted, I appreciate what you're saying, but I really think you're just too close to it right now. 
 O'CONNOR (quickly) Murray's right. (reassuring) Look it's just some ideas, okay? I mean nothing's locked in cement. I promise you this is your show... 
 O'CONNOR Trust me on this one, Ted... 
 
 How about lunch, Kramer. I'm buying. 
 Perrier and lime... (placing a drink in front of Phyllis) ...and scotch with soda. (putting Ted's drink in front of him) 
 Kramer... 
 (in a rush) O'Connor's out to get you. He's going to take the Fire and Ice account away from you. 
 (angry herself) You want to know why? I'll tell you why... (signaling to the waiter) Another scotch and soda for the gentleman. (back to Ted) I'll tell you exactly why. Because you're not his buddy anymore. Because he can't count on you to sit around the office every night until eight or nine and shoot the shit with him. 
 (exasperated) You dope. O'Connor doesn't give a damn about Billy. All he wants is somebody that'll hang around with him every night so he won't have to go home. 
 (taking a stiff drink) All right. Okay. But tell me something, Kramer. Who do you think is palling around with O'Connor these days? 
 Murray. 
 REACTION, TED 
 (would like to take him by the shoulders and shake him until his teeth rattle) Oh, for God's sake, Kramer. You have got to be the world's most naive human being. (leaning forward) Murray has gone in and changed every single ad you've done on the entire Fire and Ice campaign. Every layout... Every idea... Every single thing, right down the line. 
 (apologetic for having upset Ted) Kramer, I'm sorry. All I was trying to do was – 
 (as Ted brushes past her) I'm sorry, Mr. O'Connor is in conference. 
 O'CONNOR (embarrassed) Well, ah... I thought it over and I decided we're doing it Murray's way. 
 O'CONNOR (tough) That's my decision, Ted and that's final. 
 TED'S POV 
 TED'S POV 
 ON A BUS 
 (also with deliberate nonchalance) Not for a couple of months. The last time I heard from her she was living in San Francisco. 
 (watching him) Uh, huh... She said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis. She wanted to know all about Billy. 
 (lying) Uh, huh... Yeah... 
 I told her you're doing a pretty good job. 
 
 (O.S.) (calm, reassuring) That's good, Billy... That's a brave boy... Now then, how's that? Now we've cleaned it out... 
 There. That wasn't so bad, was it? 
 Now then, you just wait here, Billy. I want to talk to your dad for a minute. 
 (low voice, again calm and reassuring) Your boy is very lucky, Mr. Kramer. One inch over and it would have caught the eye. 
 
 But I'm going to have to take some stitches. 
 Ten. 
 Because of the position of the wound and your son's age, I don't think there will be much of a scar. Otherwise I'd call in a plastic surgeon. 
 Now, I'd advise you to wait outside. It'll be eas – 
 (reasonable) Mr. Kramer, there's – 
 How is he? 
 Sure. 
 (aghast) What? 
 (deeply upset) Don't say that! I don't want to hear you say that! 
 (amazed) Me?! You want me to take care of Billy?! 
 TED'S VOICE Hello? 
 JOANNA'S VOICE Ted? 
 TED'S VOICE Joanna? 
 MAITRE D'HOTEL Good evening, Mr. Kramer. We haven't seen you for a long time. Mrs. Kramer, she waits for you in the back. 
 Hello, Ted. You look well. 
 The usual, Mr. Kramer. 
 How's the new job? 
 Yes... How's Billy? 
 You can't tell it from a distance, Ted. 
 I've seen him. 
 A few times. Sometimes I sit in that coffee shop across the street and watch when you take him to school. 
 He looks like a terrific kid. 
 (completing the sentence) Watching my son... Ted, I've been living in New York for the past two months. 
 (a deep breath) Ted... The reason I wanted to see you... I want Billy back. 
 (firm) I want my son. I'm through sitting in coffee shops looking at him from across the street. I want my son. 
 (trying to explain) Ted, listen to me... You and I, we had a really crappy marriage – (hastily) Look, don't get so defensive, okay? It was probably as much my fault as it was yours... Anyway when I left I was really screwed up – 
 (she will be heard) Ted, all my life I'd either been somebody's daughter or somebody's wife, or somebody else's mother. Then all of a sudden, I was a thirty- two-year-old, highly neurotic woman who had just walked out on her husband and child. I went to California because that was about as far away as I could get. Only... I guess it wasn't far enough. So I started going to a shrink. (leaning forward, very sincere) Ted, I've had time to think. I've been through some changes. I've learned a lot about myself. 
 (quiet, determined) I've learned that I want my son. 
 Ted, if you can't discuss this rationally - 
 First, there's no such thing as an open and shut case. Especially where custody is involved. Got it? 
 Second, the burden is on us to prove your ex-wife is an unfit mother. That means I'm going to have to play rough and, if I play rough, you can bet they will too. Can you take that, Mr. Kramer? 
 Third, it'll cost you five thousand dollars. 
 
 That's if we win. If we lose, you could end up having to pay your wife's court costs as well. 
 Good. You've hired yourself a hell of a lawyer, Mr. Kramer. (down to business) How old is the child? 
 
 That's tough. In most cases involving a child that young, the court tends to side with the mother. 
 (glancing at it) I'm not saying we don't have a shot, but it won't be easy... (thinks for a moment) Mr. Kramer, do me a favor. There is something I find very helpful in matters like this. I sit down and make a list of all the pros and cons on an issue. I actually write them down and look at them. I want you to do that, okay? Then, after that, if you're really sure you want to retain custody of your child – then we'll go in there and whip their asses. 
 O'CONNOR (scared to do what he is about to do) Look, ah... Ted. I just got word from the guys at Revlon and... ah they did some marketing tests on our campaign and the results were... 
 O'CONNOR (stiff) Disappointing. It only pulled a fourteen share and they were hoping for a twenty five minimum, and... ah... they're not very happy and... Well, the guys have decided they want to... ah, re-think the entire concept and... Look, I don't like having to do this, okay?... But... I mean, what I mean is... ah, I'm going to have to... ah, let you go – 
 ON O'CONNOR 
 O'CONNOR C'mon, Ted, don't get emotional. Okay? (whining) Look, this isn't exactly an easy thing for me to do, y'know? I swear Murray and I did everything we could, but those sons of bitches were out for blood. I mean it was all I could do to keep the account inside the shop... Look, I promise, if I hear of anything I'll let you know first thing. 
 O'CONNOR Ted?... 
 
 O'CONNOR'S VOICE Ted?... 
 (glancing at a form Ted has filled out) Ummm, hmmm... umm, hmmm... (the good news) Well, this looks very good.. Of course (the bad news) ...you understand this is the worst time of the year to look for a job. 
 (patronizing) Mr. Kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their Christmas bonus. 
 (smooth) I understand and I'm absolutely sure something wonderful will turn up... (ending any further discussion) ...after the first of the year. 
 SECRETARY'S VOICE (from the phone) Mr. Kramer? Please hold for Mr. Shaunessy... 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE Ted? They've set the court date. I just heard today... It's... (checking his notes) January sixth. 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE (thoughtfully) Ted, I won't lie to you, we don't have a hope in hell of winning a custody hearing if you're out of work. 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE Ted? Are you there? 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE Any prospects? 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE (amazed) How the hell are you going to do that? 
 (smirk) Mis-ter Kramer, as I mentioned yesterday, this is a very bad time of year to look for work. Now I'm sure we'll have something for you by mid-February, March at the latest. 
 (going through the motions) No... No... No... 
 (doubtfully) There might be something at J. Walter Thompson. But... (shaking his head) ...I don't think they're really serious. The position's been open for two months and... (shrugs) They may just be on a fishing expedition. (cheerful) I'm sure you'll be much happier if you wait until after the first – 
 (politeness strained almost to the breaking point) Mis-ter Kramer, it's... (checking his watch) ...almost four now. It's the Friday before Christmas. Nobody is going to want to – 
 (arch) My, we are a hot shot aren't we? 
 
 Well, Mr. Kramer, I must say this has been very impressive. I'd like to think about it and get back to you. 
 Mr. Spencer, our Advertising Director. 
 (taken aback) I'm sorry, but he's leaving this evening for a two-week vacation. I'll set up something the moment he gets back. 
 Mr. Kramer, I don't think – 
 Wait here. 
 (as they enter) Mr. Spencer, Mr. Kramer. 
 (not wasting any time) So you're the go-getter. All right, you've got ten minutes. 
 ON A CLOCK 
 (sipping his drink) That's very interesting, Mr. Kramer. I must say, it's very interesting. Let me think about it. I'll let Jack... (indicating Ackerman) ...know and he'll get in touch with you. 
 
 Well? 
 Mr. Kramer, can we talk privately for a moment? 
 Mr. Kramer? 
 
 (grins) Welcome aboard, Mr. Kramer. 
 
 
 
 ON A BUS 
 
 
 TED'S VOICE Hello? 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE Ted? John Shaunessy here. I just got a call from your wife's lawyer. She wants to see the kid. 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE (he's been through this a million times) She's the mother. That means she's within her legal rights. 
 (the patience of a saint) Look, Ted, I don't honestly think she would go to the trouble of suing you for custody of the child if she was planning on kidnapping him. 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE (a flicker of interest) You ever see her talk to the walls? 
 SHAUNESSY'S VOICE Then you don't have a choice. Have Billy at the Seventy-Fifth Street entrance to Central Park, Saturday at ten. 
 
 (somewhere between laughter and tears) Oh, Billy... Oh my Billy... Oh my son... 
 (to Ted, but looking at Billy) I'll have him back at six. 
 (thoughtful) Right. 
 Kramer – 
 Kramer... There's something I ought to tell you. 
 I've been offered a job in Washington with H.E.W. 
 (a deep breath) I'm going to take it. 
 REACTION – TED 
 It's a very good job – too good to pass up. I'll be handling funding for the whole... (she stops, sits beside him on the bed) Look, I... (she means love) ..."like" you a lot. And you... (she means love) ..."like" me, okay? Maybe if it was a year from now, maybe things would be different... 
 I'll miss you, Kramer... 
 Mr. Kramer? 
 I'm Dr. Alvarez, Judge Atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet. 
 Where is the child? 
 Good. I'll see him in there. 
 Mr. Kramer, do you ever have sex in here with anyone? 
 Does that distress you? 
 What does? 
 (makes some notes, then:) Very well, I'd like to see him if I may. 
 
 DR. ALVAREZ (pointedly) I'd like to talk to Billy privately. 
 (O.S.) What do you have here, Billy? 
 (O.S.) Have you ever been to Detroit? 
 (O.S.) I see you have people there. What are their names? 
 (O.S.) What about your mommy? 
 (O.S.) Do you like to be with your mommy? 
 (O.S.) What do you like best about her? 
 (O.S.) What do you like best about your daddy? 
 (O.S.) Tell me, does your daddy ever hit you? 
 REACTION – TED 
 (O.S.) (interested) When does he hit you? 
 (O.S.) In real life when does he hit you? 
 
 Oyez, oyez... The third Circuit Court of the State of New York, Judge Atkins presiding is now in session. All rise... 
 Your honor. As our first witness I would like to call Joanna Kramer. 
 (stage whisper) Real direct. Motherhood... They're going right for the throat. 
 Now then, Mrs. Kramer, would you tell the court how long you were married? 
 Six years. 
 And would you describe those years as happy? 
 The first couple, yes, but after that it became increasingly difficult. 
 Mrs. Kramer, did you ever work in a job while you were married to your ex-husband? 
 No, I did not. 
 Did you wish to? 
 Yes. I tried to talk to Ted – my ex- husband – about it, but he wouldn't listen. He refuses to discuss it in any serious way. I remember one time he said I probably couldn't get a job that would pay enough to hire a baby-sitter for Billy. 
 Tell me, Mrs. Kramer, are you employed at the present time? 
 Yes, I work for Jantzen as a sportswear designer. 
 And what is your present salary? 
 I make thirty-one thousand dollars a year. 
 REACTION – TED 
 (switching tactics) Mrs. Kramer, do you love your child? 
 (emphatically) Yes. Very much. 
 And yet you chose to leave him? 
 (speaking carefully, with great thought) Yes... Look, during the last five years we were married, I had... I was getting more and more... unhappy, more and more frustrated. I needed to talk to somebody. I needed to find out if it was me, if I was going crazy or what. But every time I turned to Ted – my ex-husband, he couldn't handle it. He became very... I don't know, very threatened. I mean, whenever I would bring up anything he would act like it was some kind of personal attack. Anyway, we became more and more separate... more and more isolated from one another. Finally, I had no other choice, I had to leave. And because of my ex- husband's attitude – his unwillingness to deal with my feelings, I had come to have almost no self-esteem... (with feeling) At the time I left, I sincerely believed that there was something wrong with me – that my son would be better off without me. It was only when I got to California and started into therapy I began to realize I wasn't a terrible person. And that just because I needed some creative and emotional outlet other than my child, that didn't make me unfit to be a mother. 
 (to the judge) Your honor, I would like to place in evidence a report on Mrs. Kramer's therapy by her therapist, Dr. Elinore Freedman of La Jolla, California. 
 Mr. Kramer, why did you set up residence in New York? 
 Because my son is here. And his father is here. As a mother, I don't want my child to be separated from his father. 
 Mrs. Kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody? 
 Because he's my child... Because I love him. I know I left my son, I know that's a terrible thing to do. Believe me, I have to live with that every day of my life. But just because I'm a woman, don't I have a right to the same hopes and dreams as a man? Don't I have a right to a life of my own? Is that so awful? Is my pain any less just because I'm a woman? Are my feelings any cheaper? I left my child – I know there is no excuse for that. But since then, I have gotten help. I have worked hard to become a whole human being. I don't think I should be punished for that. I don't think my son should be punished for that. Billy's only six. He needs me. I'm not saying he doesn't need his father, but he needs me more. I'm his mother. 
 Thank you, Mrs. Kramer. I have no further questions. 
 
 Now then, Mrs. Kramer, you said you were married seven years. Is that correct? 
 Yes. 
 In all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way. 
 No. 
 Did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way? 
 No. 
 Would you describe your husband as an alcoholic? 
 No. 
 A heavy drinker? 
 No. 
 Was he unfaithful? 
 No. 
 Did he ever fail to provide for you? 
 No. 
 (wry smile) Well, I can certainly understand why you left him. 
 Objection. 
 (switching his line of questioning) How long do you plan to live in New York, Mrs. Kramer? 
 Permanently. 
 Permanently? (smiles, like a shark smiles) Mrs. Kramer, how many boy friends have you had – permanently? 
 
 I don't recall. 
 (boring in) How many lovers have you had – permanently? 
 (looks toward Gressen for help) I don't recall. 
 More than three, less than thirty- three – permanently? 
 
 Objection! 
 Overruled. The witness will answer, please. 
 (almost a whisper) Somewhere in between. 
 Do you have a lover now? 
 (furious) Objection! 
 (to the judge) Your honor, I would request a direct answer to a direct question. Does she have a lover? 
 I'll allow that. The witness will answer please. 
 (in a whisper) Yes. 
 Is that... permanent? 
 (by now she is becoming thoroughly rattled) I... I don't know... 
 Then, we don't really know, do we, when you say "permanently" if you're planning to remain in New York, or even to keep the child for that matter, since you've never really done anything in your life that was continuing, stable, that could be regarded as permanent. 
 Objection! I must ask that the counsel be prevented from harassing the witness. 
 Sustained. 
 (a new attack) Mrs. Kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult? 
 (red in the face) Objection! 
 Sustained. 
 I'll ask it another way. What was the longest personal relationship you have had in your life – other than parents and girlfriends? 
 (rattled) Ah... I guess I'd have to say... with my child. 
 (wonder, irony) Whom you've seen twice in a year? Mrs. Kramer, your ex-husband, wasn't he the longest personal relationship in your life? 
 (reluctantly) I suppose... 
 Would you speak up, Mrs. Kramer? I couldn't hear you. 
 (louder) Yes. 
 How long was that? 
 We were married two years before the baby. And then four very difficult years. 
 So, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your life. 
 Objection! 
 Overruled. 
 I was not a failure. 
 (sarcastic) Oh? What do you call it then – a success? The marriage ended in divorce. 
 (so angry she forgets her cool) I consider it less my failure than his. 
 (seizes on this) Congratulations, Mrs. Kramer. You have just rewritten matrimonial law. You were both divorced, Mrs. Kramer. 
 (on his feet) Objection! 
 (to the judge) Your honor, I'd like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded at? (to Joanna) Mrs. Kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life? 
 Please answer the question, Mrs. Kramer. 
 (whisper) It did not succeed. 
 (suddenly fierce) Not it... Not it, Mrs. Kramer – you. Were you a failure at the most important personal relationship of your life? 
 Were you? 
 (barely audible) Yes. 
 No further questions. 
 (tough) Do you want the kid or don't you? 
 
 Now then, Mr. O'Connor, how long did Ted Kramer work for you? 
 O'CONNOR Eight, almost nine years. 
 And did you have a close personal relationship? 
 O'CONNOR (in a whisper) Yes... 
 And how did you find his work? 
 O'CONNOR It was good. He was a hard worker, a lot of drive, a real hustler. 
 And yet you fired him. 
 O'CONNOR (looking down) Ted was a good worker. But, ah... after his wife left him and he was taking care of the kid on his own, things started to change. Look, I know he had problems, I understand that. I've got problems, everybody's got problems. But I've got a shop to run, I can't let that kind of thing get in the way... (quietly) I guess I felt that Ted was letting his duties at home interfere with his responsibilities in the office. 
 Thank you. I have no further questions. 
 Mr. O'Connor, does the agency still have the Fire and Ice account? 
 O'CONNOR (up tight) No. 
 Mr. O'Connor, can you tell me where you are employed at the moment? 
 O'CONNOR (stiff) At the moment I am unemployed. 
 If the petitioner has no further witnesses, we will hear the respondent tomorrow morning at 9:30. 
 
 Mrs. Phillips, how long have you known Ted Kramer? 
 Six years. Ever since Ted and Joanna moved into the building. 
 How often do you see Mr. Kramer and his son? 
 (to the judge, by way of explanation) Charley, my husband, and I are... divorced and Kim, that's our daughter is about Billy's age and the children play together a lot. So, I guess we see each three or four times a week. 
 Can you describe the relationship between Mr. Kramer and his son? 
 It's beautiful. It's just beautiful. They have a beautiful relationship. 
 
 (patronizing) Objection, your honor. The answer is, to be generous, very vague. 
 Can you recall any particular incident that relates to Mr. Kramer's care of his child? 
 (fighting a losing battle with her emotions) Ted – Mr. Kramer, spends a great deal of time with his child. I don't just mean hours, I mean good time, involved time. He reads to Billy. They play together. They talk all the time... (tears start) He is a very... kind man... a very... devoted father, and... and... (she turns to Joanna) And Joanna if you ever saw them together... there wouldn't be a trial at all... (she breaks down, weeping) Oh, shit... I'm sorry... I'm sorry... 
 (gently) No further questions. Thank you Mrs. Phillips. 
 (without looking up from his notes) No questions. 
 Mr. Kramer, would you tell the court exactly why you want to retain custody of your child. 
 Thank you, Mr. Kramer. No further questions. 
 
 (hard-lining it) Mr. Kramer, by any chance have you ever had a woman in your bed while your child was asleep in the next room? 
 (pointedly) So do I. 
 Objection! 
 Sustained. 
 (switching to another line of attack) Mr. Kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago? 
 (snotty) You were fired, correct? 
 (snide) Give them time... 
 Objection, your honor! Counsel is harassing the witness. 
 (to the judge, pettish) Your honor, I'm only examining the man's employment record. He pretends to fitness when he cannot hold a job. 
 Sustained. 
 
 (very tough) Mr. Kramer, did your child nearly lose an eye when he was in your care? 
 REACTION – TED 
 (boring in) Mr. Kramer, did you, or did you not tell the child's mother that you were responsible for the injury that permanently disfigured your child? 
 (vehement) Objection! Your honor, counsel is raising a question that is not germane to these proceedings. 
 (to the judge) While the child was in the care of the witness, he cut his face badly and is now scarred. 
 (to Gressen) Are you introducing the question of negligence here, counselor? 
 Yes, your honor. 
 I see. Well, you'll have to do better than that. Do you have any affidavits to support negligence? 
 I do not, your honor, however – 
 This is an isolated incident, counselor, unless you can prove otherwise. 
 (back to Ted) Does the witness deny the injury took place? 
 (before Ted can say anything) No, counselor, I'm going to over- rule you on this line of questioning. 
 Then I have concluded my questions. 
 (O.S.) Ted. 
 
 I'm sorry... I just mentioned it in passing. I never thought he'd use it. 
 Please, Ted. I never would have brought it up if I thought – 
 You heard anything yet? 
 Ted. 
 (this is hard to say) Ah, Charley and I are... Well, we're thinking about... I mean, actually we're sort of talking about maybe getting back together. 
 (hastily) Maybe. I said maybe. (apologizing for her good fortune) What I mean is, ah... I don't think it'll really work out, but Charley seems to want it, so... 
 (can't help grinning) Oh, God... Ted, I am really scared. 
 
 
 
 The judge went for motherhood straight down the line. 
 I can't tell you how sorry I am. 
 (reading from a piece of paper) Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the petitioner be awarded custody of the minor child, effective Monday the 23rd of January. That the respondent pay for the maintenance and support of said child, four hundred dollars each month. That the father shall have the following rights of visitation: every other weekend, one night each week to be mutually agreed upon and one half of the child's vacation period. (looks up at Ted) That's it. 
 (matter of factly) We can appeal, but I can't guarantee anything. 
 It's going to cost. 
 I've got to tell you something, Ted. This time it'll be Billy that pays. This time I'll have to put him on the stand. 
 (calling out) Ted!... It's me... Ted?... 
 Ted, I just heard... 
 I'm so... sorry... Oh, Ted, I'm so sorry... 
 JOANNA'S VOICE Ted, it's Joanna. Can you meet me in the lobby?... Alone? 
 
 Ted, do you love him? 
 (insistent) Ted, do you love him? 
 I love him too... I don't think I ever knew how much until now. 
 (a deep breath, then:) Ted, when we got married it was because I was twenty-seven years old and I thought I should get married and... when I had Billy it was because I thought I should have a baby... and I guess all I did was mess up my life and your life and – 
 (urgent) Please... Please don't stop me. This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do.. 
 After I left... when I was in California, I began to think, what kind of mother was I that I could walk out on my own child. It got to where I couldn't tell anybody about Billy – I couldn't stand that look in their faces when I said he wasn't living with me. Finally it seemed like the most important thing in the world to come back here and prove to Billy and to me and to the world how much I loved him... And I did... And I won. Only... it was just another "should." (she begins to break down) ...Sitting in that courtroom. Hearing everything you did, everything you went through... Something happened. I guess it doesn't matter how much I love him, or how much you love him. I guess it's like you said, the only thing that counts is what's best for Billy. I don't know, maybe that's all love is anyway... Ted, I think Billy should stay with you... 
 (she reaches out, takes his hand) He's already got one mother, he doesn't need two... He's yours... (her last ounce of reserve crumbles) I won't fight you for him any more. He's yours... 
 Only can I still see him? 
 
