 Transform and flee, Kranix! You must warn all you meet of the horror of Unicron! Suddenly, the pitiful creature is surrounded by the strange energy cloud and it looks like his body has simultaneously caught fire and been doused with acid. 
 Arblus!   No! 
 It is the year 2005. The treacherous Decepticons have conquered the Autobots' home planet of Cybertron. But from secret staging grounds on two of Cybertron's moons the valiant Autobots prepare to retake their homeland. 
 Every time I look into this thing, my circuits sizzle. I'm tired of this waiting game, Prime. When are we gonna start bustin' Deceptichops? 
 Then let me make another run to Autobot City on Earth. I'll bring you back more cubes than you'll know what to do with. 
 Alright, ready the shuttle for launch. 
 
! (looking into monitor) Your days are numbered now Decepticreeps. 
 No sign of Decepticons in this sector, Prime. 
 What about Moon Base 2? 
 Jazz to Moon Base 2. 
 This is the second moon. It is much closer to Cybertron than the first one. This is where Bumblebee and Spike are stationed. 
 (V.O.) Jazz to Moon Base 2. 
 Bumblebee and Spike here. 
 (V.O.) We're about to send up the bird. Any Decepticon shenanigans in your sector? 
 All clear, Jazz. (pause) 
 Hey,   Ironhide, tell my son, Daniel, I miss   him, and tell him I'll be coming home   as soon as we've kicked Megatron's tail   across the galaxy. 
 Will do, Spike. 
 Commence countdown, Cliffjumper. 
 Five...Four...Three...Two... 
 One.... 
 CLIFFJUMPER (V.O.) (CONT'D) Liftoff. 
 Now, all we need is a little Energon and a lot of luck. 
 (V.O.) Slow down, Ironhide. We want to get to Autobot city in one piece. 
 If I can dodge Dececpticon rays, I can sure as shootin' dodge a couple of asteroids. 
 You were saying? 
 IRONHIDE (IRKED) That wasn't an asteroid. There is a blast of light and they turn to see... 
! 
 Die Autobots! 
 is cut in half by Megatron's blast. 
 as SCAVENGER MELTS HIM DOWN. 
 This was almost too easy, Starscream. 
 Much easier, oh mighty Megatron, than attacking the real threat: the Autobots moon base. 
 You're an idiot, Starscream. Were we simply to wipe out that minuscule base, they could build another one. (MORE) 
 MEGATRON (CONT'D) But when we slip by their security systems in their own ship and destroy Autobot city, the Autobots will be vanquished forever! 
 Fat chance, Megatron! 
 Such heroic nonsense! 
 (V.O.) The Shuttle just zipped past checkpoint zeta. 
 Daniel, a classic twelve year old American boy watches the portable viewer which is like an over-sized Boy Scout compass. WIDEN SHOT to show he is at an old fashioned "fishin' hole" on Earth - surrounded by weeping willows, assorted trees and shrubs, and that his fishing pole is stuck in the dirt, the line floating lazily out on the water. 
 Let's watch Ironhide land it, Hot Rod! As Daniel runs to small skateboard-like device, hits a button, and watches, it transforms into a hoverboard and rides it, like a surfer up a steep, grassy hillside we change angle to feature... 
 an "adolescent" Autobot. He is in robot mode, sitting with his fishing rod held between two fingers, looking bored with it all. 
 (calling excitedly) Hurry or we'll miss it! 
 lopes up hill after Daniel. 
 Hey!   Let me out. 
 Why settle for a peek when you can see everything from Lookout Mountain? 
 But we're not supposed to go beyond City limits! 
 Chromo-Chicken! 
 disgustedly watches Hot Rod drive up the mountain. 
 KUP (CONT'D) (to sound like swearing) Cam bustin', turbo revvin' young punk. 
 This is it! Now take a squint through those babies. 
 Hot Rod, look! There's a hole in the shuttle! 
 What!? 
 (O.S.) Decepticons! 
 This is for Ironhide.    As so's this! 
 He ducks away from the door. 
 STARSCREAM (CONT'D) I'm hit! 
 He's furious. 
 MEGATRON (CONT'D) You imbecile, our cover is blown! 
 It was your stupid strategy! 
 What's that darn fool doing? Hound looks up and points. 
 Decepticons! 
 (shouting to forces) Attack! (he looks down and fires) 
 Hang on! 
 (SHOUTING) WHoooooooaaah 
 (amused) Come on down, Autobrat! 
 Yiiiiiiiiii! 
 who is flying nearby. 
 transforms to robot mode and turns as... Kup comes flying, feet first, into Blitzwing knocking him off the mountain ledge. 
 Not bad for an old timer! 
 (gruffly) Old timer?! That's something you'll never be if you don't get back to the city. You know what we used to do with cocky, insubordinate upstarts? 
 (interrupting) Save it. 
 transforming into jet mode, fires on them with laser bursts which... 
 transforms to humanoid and runs toward...... ... Three new Autobots, ARCEE, a lovely female Autobot of about Hot Rod's age, SPRINGER, a very muscular and bantering "Indiana Jones" type Autobot and ULTRA MAGNUS, the large and soldierly City Commander. 
 Ultra Magnus.....a cursory evaluation of Decepticon capability indicates a distinct tactical deficit! 
 In other words, Perceptor... 
 (translating) We're outnumbered! 
 SPRINGER'S BLAST... 
 Springer, Arcee, transform Autobot City! 
 
 (V.O.) Pathetic fools! 
 TRANSFORMS and hovers in robot mode, firing all around them as they... 
 There's no escape...Uuuuh! Just then, the floor of the courtyard STARTS TRANSFORMING - - the center line of the floor snaps shut like the halves of a gigantic steel shelled clam, trapping Starscream's foot. 
 Agggggggh!     My foot! 
 as he FLIES OVER SCENE, BLASTING this way and that, shouting 
 Breach their defenses! 
 who are trailing Megatron, attack the fast CLOSING CITY, trying to GNAW AND DEVOUR their way through the PORTS and BRIDGES leading inside. 
 (Chewing on jamb of doorway near bridge) Delicious, eh Shrapnel? 
 (CHEWING on draw-bridge to City) A little heavy on the electrons. Electrons. 
 (V.O.) The Insecticons are in our way. 
 (V.O.) Wrong!   They're our way in!   Yaaaaaaay- hah! 
 Hot Rod speeds up, passes Kup and... ... rides up and over Kickback's back, using it like a stunt driver's ramp to... 
 As Shrapnel looks up and reacts... ...Kup hurtles up and over Kickback's back just as Kickback is starting to rise to see what knocked him face down onto the bridge in the first place. ... Kup goes SAILING OT OVER OPEN SPACE between Kickback's back and the doorway into the city- -clobbering Shrapnel, who is in the way and landing on the city doorstep, driving in as... 
. 
 (sternly) You can explain your security violation later, Hot Rod! Now, man your battle station. 
 I don't have to explain my so called violation to you or anyone... 
 (tugs him along roughly) He said "later!" 
 Lookout and shout! Yow! Explosions rock the Crows Nest. Blaster swivels around and tilts to see... 
 activates turret type LASER CANNON 
 Gonna lay some slugs on those overweight bugs! (FIRES Laser Cannon) 
 LASER BLAST cooks out and we FOLLOW IT OFF SCREEN to... 
 Perceptor joins him. 
 (joyful at his direct hit) I'm talkin' hits here, Autobuddies! Hits with a capital "aitch" like in Hard, Heavy and... (sees Perceptor) Hey, Perceptor, what's shakin' other than this fortress? 
 Blaster, Ultra Magnus sends orders to contact Optimus Prime for reinforcements. 
 Alright! Cover your receptors, Perceptor! Blaster transforms to ghetto blaster mode and broadcasts VISIBLE waves... 
 Optimus Prime... Do you read me? The Decepticons are blitzing Autobot City. We're really takin' a pounding. Don't know how much longer we can hold out. 
 Soundwave!     Jam that transmission. 
 SOUNDWAVE moves forward and starts heaving CASSETTES upwards toward Blaster's Crows Nest position. 
 Rumble! Frenzy! Ravage! Ratbat! Eject! Operation: interference. 
 as they transform and attack the crows nest. 
 We got Cassette Critters knockin' on the window! 
 Run, Blaster! Save yourself! 
 No way. Two can play! 
 as he spews out CASSETTES which TRANSFORM into CUBBIE, a lion, STRIPES, a tiger, STINGER, a scorpion and BOLTS, a small, tough robot. 
 Sic 'em! 
 as he SNAPS at Ratbat who screams and darts, trying to escape as we move to 
 You think you got through to Prime? 
 Let's hope so! Cause if I didn't we're gonna look like burnt out toaster ovens! 
 Constructicons merge for the kill! 
 Great! Megatron's making his big push and we can't even push... (struggling to turn Catapult around to re-aim it) ...back! 
 Keep at it, Springer, lad! Help's at hand! (to Hot Rod) Together now! 
 also leans against it, his small legs churning. 
 (pushing, manages to speak to Hot Rod. She likes him but doesn't want to go too far) I was afraid you'd be trapped outside the city walls. 
 (likes her, too, but tries to be cool and collected) Hey, I wasn't worried for a micro-second, Arcee! 
 (enjoying letting him have it) Then you probably didn't understand the situation. Before Hot Rod can react, Kup steps back from repositioned Catapult 
 That did it! 
 Kup, Hot Rod! Look! (he points) 
. 
 (V.O.) Devastator! 
 as he rises up and starts FIRING, HAMMERING, TEARING AWAY at metal shields which create armored walls of the transformed City. 
 I got better things to do today than die. (he FIRES Catapult) 
 and explode harmlessly as Devastator continues to grunt and tear off armored layers of the city. He grabs Hot Rod and Kup and starts to crush them. 
 Hot Rod! 
 Uhhhh! Me Grimlock love challenge! Dinobots, transform! 
 transform into humanoid mode, and, with Grimlock at the front... ...fly out of the shuttle in wedge formation, blasting in unison. 
 In as they transform again and, in dino mode, swoop over to Devastator... 
 Roars towards the Dinobots. 
 shakes the Earth... 
 Megatron must be stopped. (pause) 
 (V.O.) No matter the cost. 
 as he commands his troops. 
 Their defenses are broken.    Let the slaughter begin. 
 Prime!? 
 smashing through a wall of lesser Decepticons. 
 One shall stand, one shall fall. 
 Why throw away your life so recklessly? 
 hurls himself at Optimus Prime... .... both tumble into the walls of the City... ...denting the walls and causing the electronic panels inside to short circuit, surrounding them with a fiery nimbus of crackling electrical energy. 
 We've got to save Prime! Punching... 
 That's his fight, lad!   Stay away. Shooting.. 
 grabs a jagged, spearlike piece of steel and hurls it at 
 The steel "spear" pierces his side and sticks in him as... ... he charges Megatron, ...dodging shots from Megatron's gun to... ...deliver a huge UPPERCUT which... ...lifts Megatron into the air so high that... ... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 PRIME (CONT'D) his head butts sharply against overhanging concrete balcony, mashing him down... 
 lands and stealthily slips a laser dagger from his boot, turning and slashing at... 
 as he comes for him, tearing... ...a gash across Prime's midsection, which spews smoke and sparks and... 
 (gloating) Farewell, Prime! 
 who claws his fingers and digs them into Prime's eyes 
 I'll rip out your optics! Optimus grabs Megatron's clawed hand in one of his hands, twists it in see-sawing test of strength which... Optimus wins in a judo toss which sends Megatron - - skidding face first through steel rubble, in a shower of sparks until he crashes into the side of the city. 
 That's showing him, Optimus! 
 knocks two Decepticons on their tails and turns. 
 Finish him off, Prime!   Do it now! 
 as he spots a gun on the ground ahead of him 
 No more, Optimus Prime!    Grant me mercy, I beg of you! 
 Out of the way, Hot Rod. 
 firing blaster again and again 
 Fall!   Fall! 
 I would have waited an eternity for this. Crawl, slave! On your knees! 
 Optimus!    Forgive me! 
 (sarcastic, filled with false sympathy) How do you feel, Mighty Megatron? (he kicks Megatron) 
 (weakly clutching at Starscream's hand, gasping) Enshrine me! 
 (drops Megatron's hand coldly, calls to other Decepticons) Take this scrap to Cybertron! Astrotrain, transform and get us out of here! 
 The Decepticons are retreating. 
 Prime did it. He turned the tide! He shoots (O.S.) into... 
 Astrotrain, take off. 
 emit bleeps and show oscilloscopic patterns but sounds and wave patterns are steadily growing weaker and weaker. 
 is bent over Prime, in microscope mode, examining him... He then transforms and straightens up, his voice strained and cracking with emotion. 
 I fear the wounds are... (he can't finish what he's going to say) INTERCUT TO HOT ROD, KUP, ARCEE, DANIEL AND OTHER AUTOBOTS as they react. 
 (a flash of hope) Prime! (looks off at Prime) 
 Prime, I'm just a soldier.   I'm not worthy. 
 
 Jettison some weight, or I'll never make it to Cybertron. 
 Fellow Decepticons, Astrotrain has requested that we lighten our burden! 
 In that case, I say it's survival of the fittest. 
 So I hear a second on that? 
 
 Aye! 
 And against? 
! 
 The ayes' have it! 
 
 (AD LIB) Beat it!     Spare me! 
 (sarcastic) Oh, how it grieves me to do this. 
 Wait, I still function! 
 Wanna bet? 
 Well, as Megatron has, how shall we say - departed. I nominate myself as the new leader. 
 The Constructicons form Devastator, the most powerful robot. We should rule. 
 Constructicons inferior.   Soundwave superior. 
 Who are you calling inferior. 
 Nobody would follow an uncharismatic bore like you. 
 Yeah!     Let's kick tailgate. 
 Constructicons, unite! 
 RUMBLE/FRENZY No way! 
 I am a triple changer. I am worth any two of you. I should run things. 
 
 Death comes to anyone who crosses me. He attacks Blitzwing. 
 Stop squabbling or we're gonna crash. 
 Welcome, Megatron. 
 (looking around) Who said that? 
 I am Unicron. 
 Show yourself! 
 I have summoned you here for a purpose. 
 Nobody summons Megatron! 
 Then it pleases me to be the first. 
 State your business. 
 Bring me the Autobot Matrix. It is the one thing - the only thing that can stand in my way. 
 You have nothing to fear. I have already crushed Optimus Prime with my bare hands. 
 You exaggerate. 
 The point is, he is dead!   And the Matrix died with him. 
 No. It has been passed to their new leader. Get it for me. 
 Why should I? What's in it for me? 
 Your bargaining posture is highly dubious, but very well, I will provide you with a new body, and new troops to command. 
 And... 
 And nothing. 
 I belong to nobody. 
 Perhaps I misjudged you. Proceed on your way to oblivion. The Mist appears and starts to dissolve Megatron. 
 (pleading) No, no. I accept your terms.   I accept! 
 Excellent! Behold - Galvatron! X-ray images: wiring, circuitry, etc. flash on and off as a new and larger being starts to form, changing from dented Megatron to a huge, new creation: Galvatron. 
 Long live Galvatron! 
 And these shall be your minions... 
 (Sweep character) is bearded, fanged and ferocious looking and as soon as he has been CREATED, he roars and stretches and an ARRAY OF SIMILAR CREATURES - smaller and all wearing dark and matching uniforms - are INSTANTLY CREATED FROM OTHERS behind him 
 Scourge, the tracker....and his huntsmen...the Sweeps.... 
 Cyclonus, the warrior...and his armada..... 
 To Cybertron! 
 (loudly proclaiming over the scene) Bring me the Autobot matrix! DURING'S COMMAND we CHANGE ANGLE TO SHOW 
 I will rip open Autobot after Autobot until it is yours, Unicron. 
 in neat ranks but their grim expressions show their displeasure. 
 (preening) Get on with the ceremony! Dirge and others react to EERIE SOUNDS and look up and off. Starscream looks where others are looking and reacts. 
 Who disrupts my coronation? 
 Coronation? This is bad comedy! 
 Megatron, is that you? 
 Here's a clue! 
 HIS P.O.V -GALVATRON 
 He transforms back to robot mode and confronts other Decepticons boastfully. 
 Will anyone else attempt to fill his shoes? 
. 
 
 (AD LIB) 
 Galvatron. 
 
 Bit by bit, we see new    sections of the planet being generated.    Then, the sinister mist we saw at    the beginning of the film starts pouring    out. 
 A strange, LOUD HUM fills the air and the ground heaves and SHAKES beneath their feet 
 Where'd that come from?! 
 Who cares? I'm more worried about where it's going! 
 (on communicator device) Talk to me, Earth! We got a situation out here! 
 
 JAZZ (V.O.-FILTER) Roger me. Wilco me. Anything?    Hello. Hello Earth. 
 He reacts to muffled transmission from Jazz. 
 I'm pickin' up a faint signal! TRANSFORMS to blaster mode and Jazz's VOICE is broadcast loud and clear causing Springer, Arcee, and Daniel to react 
 And it's attack... 
 Jazz!   Cliffjumper! 
 Got ...to....blast free....if we can..... They get in and start retro blasters, the flame of blasters whirling in wild winds as moon is engulfed. 
 (V.O.) Ignition and.... 
 (V.O.) Hit it! 
 Suddenly it is pulled deep into Unicron. 
 How dare Unicron?! (defiant) Cybertron and all it's moons are mine! 
 But remember, WE belong to HIM! 
 (gasping for breath, writhing, nods) I....will obey, Unicron! Decepticons, to Earth! The torture stops and Galvatron clutches his throat and tries to regain his composure as we... 
 It's like a terrible nightmare, Ultra Magnus. 
 This thing - this juggernaut just ripped the first moon to shreds. 
 And it's heading this way. 
 We'll try 'n slow it down... 
 But you'd better get here fast because... Suddenly, static obscures the transmission. 
 Dad! 
 Autobots, prepare to board the shuttles. This new menace is more dangerous than all the Decepticons put together. Somehow we must destroy it before it devours Cybertron. 
 But what about my dad? He's on the moon between that monster and Cybertron. 
 Daniel, I'll do everything I can for Spike. 
 And what are we going to do when we get there? If that thing crunches moons, it'll make short work of us. 
 Maybe the Matrix can stop it. 
 You're right! It can. 
 What do you know about it lad? 
 It's just a feeling. 
 Look! 
 To the shuttles!!! 
 There is no escape. I, Galvatron will crush you just as the magnificent Megatron crushed Prime! 
 And you'll die trying just like Megatron! Ultra Magnus fires Laser and hits Galvatron. 
 aaaaaaaah!     Autobot cur!! 
 You want me to gut Ultra Magnus for you? 
 There are plenty of Autobots for you. Ultra Magnus is mine! 
 Stay close to me, Daniel... 
 (to Arcee) And you better stay close to me... Arcee pulls Hot Rod toward her before he gets hit by laser 
 No, you'd better stay close to me. Blurr is trying to get Grimlock into Shuttle with the rest of the Dinobots as Decepticon FIRE COMES IN ALL AROUND. Grimlock is like a "spooked horse" refusing to be shut in the barn. 
 (pleading with him, shoving him, talking very, very rapidly) Nice Dino, good, Dino, sweet Dino! Won't you step into the nice spaceship for Blurr? Please, pretty please. 
 (sticking head out past struggling Blurr) Me, Grimlock, not "nice Dino!" Me bash brains! 
 He gives FIRE BREATHING BLAST AT JETS as they go by STRAFING THE 
 as Kup, Hot Rod and Arcee MOVE INTO SCENE BEHIND HIM 
 Kup, Hot Rod. Get the Dinobots out of here! 
 as he TRANSFORMS to Humanoid mode and shouts orders, FIRING AT Blurr who BLURRS PAST and then at Arcee who also SHIPS BY 
 No survivors! 
 This reminds me of the battle on Alpha 9, when the Petro-Rabbits were...(annoyed) Grimlock, get your noodle out of my face! (starts throwing switches) 
 Me, Grimlock, love Kup's war stories! 
 You're living one now! (to Hot Rod) Engage the boosters for Cybertron's sake! Hot Rod nods and quickly passes his hand over bank of SWITCHES all of which GLOW AND PULSE with the action. 
 as DECEPTICON FIREBALL COMES UP and SPLATTERS AGAINST WINDOW, sending tongues of fire running across the glass behind Hot Rod's head 
 You got 'em! 
 (to Kup) Tell Grimlock about Petro-Rabbits again. 
 (muttering, using joystick) I'll give you Petro-Rabbits. Contact! The Shuttle lurches and shakes 
 (V.O.) Yaaaaaaaaho! We're airborne! 
 (V.O.) Groooooowwwwwrrrr! 
 Vaporize them! 
 (to Daniel) Looks like we're shipmates, squirt! 
 All right! 
 But if you get space sick, you're gonna walk home. 
 Hurry! 
 Jump. 
 still going up the ramp while the shuttle slowly leaves the ground. 
 That was close! 
 Believe it or not, this is the fun part. 
 No time to preheat....Can this ship take it? 
 With an accelerated ignition procedure the ceramic housings might create a magnetic flux. 
 (baffled) What? 
 (ENTERING SHOT, reaches in and pushes joystick forward) He says "go for it!" 
 gives the thumbs up gesture. 
 INCLUDING Ultra Magnus' shuttle through side port as Springer gives thumbs up signal in return and Daniel waves 
 as he turns and reacts, looking straight up and ahead 
 It ought to be smooth sailin' from here on in. 
 Fuse them! 
 (using intercom) Ultra Magnus...what next? 
 Remember what we did off Beta Four! 
 I remember it well. 
 A 
 GALVATRON'S SHIPS which swerve to avoid them as.... 
 GALVATRON'S SHIP emerges from the chaos. 
 
 The explosions jammed my sensors. (pause) I have lost track of the Autobots! 
 
 Damn it!! They did the same thing to me off Beta four! 
 Possible song - optimistic adventure with the suggestion that all dreams might not happen. 
 (V.O.) Congratulations Autobots, we've lost 'em at least for a while. So rest up. We'll refuel on the Junk Planet and work out our battle plan there. 
 Yep, I remember the dust was so thick off Beta 4 had to use windshield wipers on your optic sensors.... 
 (impatiently) Me, Grimlock, know all about wipers! Want to hear good part of story! 
 (beating wings rapidly, excitedly) Good part, Kup! Tell Swoop good part! 
 
 (excitedly) (beating tail on Unh unh unh.... floor) Good part...tell 
 Okay, Okay. The dust was really thick and then this gigantic Ick Yak... 
 Don't you think we have better things to do now than tell stories Kup? 
 Like what? 
 Like maybe figure out how we're gonna stay alive. 
 (ALL SHUSH HIM) As he is speaking, Auto-Combatant "sees" its opening and gives Hot Rod a swift kick in the rear, sending him flying (o.s.) 
 (continuing) Time out, for Cybertron's sake! 
 
 (mechanically, quickly) Time out, time out, time out! Suddenly, the shuttle rocks from impact and SPARKS and flames shoot out of large hole in wall 
 Kup! Raise your force fields at once! They're armed with..... 
 (V.O.) Moleculon Missiles! 
 They're closing on us! 
 Yep, like the shrikebats of Dromedon! 
 Yeah, how'd you beat them? 
 I'm trying to remember...there were an awful lot of casualties that day... 
 (O.S.) Oh yeah, we inversed polarities. 
 (O.S.) That'll tear the ship apart! 
 (O.S.) You got a better idea?!! With that, the ship seems to stop, on a dime, in mid air! The missiles zoom past it. 
 Okay, so you were right. 
 Don't run your programs until they're debugged. 
 They're coming back. 
 Let's just hope we've screwed up their trajectories. 
! 
 Whew!!! 
 Yep, I thought we'd had it that time for sure. 
 Dive! 
 crushing the area between Hot Rod and Kup. 
 Kup and Hot Rod just bought it! 
 I can't deal with that now. 
 Face it, Magnus, the Decepticons 're gonna dog us until they see us dead! Ultra Magnus nods solemnly 
 (cryptic) Then that's exactly what they're gonna see. 
 as he works controls which eject more Moleculon Missiles. 
 The Autobots have been terminated! 
 Excellent. And soon we shall say the same of that infernal Unicron. Suddenly, Galvatron's body begins to twist, and he writhes in pain. 
 GALVATRON (CONT) Aaaah!   Take me to Unicron...Aaaah! 
 Did we have to detonate three- quarters of the ship?! 
 Seeing how they would have detonated four quarters, I think it was a good choice. SUDDEN SHUDDER AND THE SHIP DROPS SHARPLY, all holding on to each other and to any protruding handhold 
 Perceptor....can you still locate the Junk Planet? 
 Gamma waves in this sector of space create marginal navigation probabilities, however..... (looks at Ultra Magnus) 
 Holds his head in his hands as Springer grimaces 
 Ahem.....yes I think I can. 
 
 still cartwheeling down toward the planet below, trying to change the angle of his fall 
 (bubbling, filtered voice) Kup....Grimlock?   Slag!....Anybody? WE FOLLOW him through undersea world as he rounds a "corner" of the Reef Wall and reacts 
 Kup! 
 Fires at the Squid, but not stopping him. 
 Hot Rod's shot plinks off a couple of tentacles, but the squid keeps coming... 
 Don't worry, I'm not coming after you. 
 lowers his head and blows blast of air through head-piece. The air blast clears the water, revealing Kup's head and torso half buried in the "sand" 
 Kup!   Say something! 
 (bubbling as he speaks) Fix me! 
 Sure, Kup....right away! Hot Rod rapidly PULLS KUP'S SCATTERED BODY PARTS TOGETHER. 
 Well...what do you think? Kup feels his elbow joint, twists his neck side to side and gets creaks and squeaks and moves legs in odd, creaky way as he is trying himself out. 
 (a beat, then grimaces) There's a piece missing. 
 No way.... (sifts through pile of SCRAP METAL PARTS lying at Kup's feet) See, this wasn't yours...it's some kind of prehistoric ion cruncher....and this doohickey looks like a funky energon funnel... and this... 
 (moving up and back, bending arms and hands, CREAKING, CLUNKING, SQUEAKING) Well, I still think I'm short a part! (sees Hot Rod hang his head) But all things considered, you did an amazing job, lad! Amazing! 
 (brightening) Really? 
 (rotates arm rapidly) Yeah, you even got rid of a nasty burr on my rotator! Now, let's find the Dinos and get off this twisted planet! 
 as he transforms it's evident that a fender is misplaced and a wheel mounted improperly so it wobbles and he rides unevenly with much chugging and oil spewing 
 (V.O.) (in vehicular mode) Of all the circuit glitched diode blowin' dim-wittery... I told you a part was missin'. 
 Don't act hostile. I'll use the universal greeting. 
 Universal Greeting. 
 Watch.   I'll have them eating out of my hand. 
 Or our faces. 
 Bah-weep-Graaaaagnah wheep ni ni bong... 
 (mocking, mimicking) Bah-weep-Graaaaagnah wheep ni ni bong... The Sharkticons look interested. 
 
) 
 See, the Universal Greeting works every time. (pause) Now, without making any sudden moves, give them an Energon goody. Kup reaches into his belt, presses a button and pulls out an Energon cube. Hot Rod, somewhat suspicious of the whole process does the came. 
 This is getting expensive. 
 Don't worry, they'll reciprocate. They each hand out three Energon goodies to the remaining six Sharkticons... The Sharkticons eat them happily. Then, they back off, eyeing the two Autobots with menace. 
 I thought they were supposed to reciprocate. 
 (not sure of himself) Customs vary from place to place. Suddenly, the Sharkticons transform to their vicious mode and lunge at them. 
 
 (V.O.) Reminds me of the Niter Slave Mines on Golgonath Seven.... 
 Every place reminds you of some place else..... 
 (V.O.) Experience, lad. You should learn to appreciate it. 
 A lot of good it's done us so far! 
. 
 I can't transform! 
 They're restraining bolts, lad. 
 (looking around) We got to get a new travel agent.... What is this place? 
 The world of the savage Sharkticons and their cruel masters the Quintessons. They hunt down those who try to escape the wrath of Unicron, and put them on trial. 
 But what if they're innocent? 
 Guilty or innocent, the sentence is always the same - death! 
 Unicron?!    Who's Unicron? 
 A planet six times the size of this one that absorbs everything in its path. 
 So that's the monster's name. 
 I wonder if there's any connection between it and Galvatron. 
 (V.O.) That one! 
 Soon, you too shall receive your sentence. 
 Jury, have you reached a verdict? 
 #1 We have your honor. 
 (to jury of Quintessons) Guilty.....Or innocent. I repeat. 
 Spare me this mockery of justice. 
 I repeat, guilty...or innocent. 
 Guilty!! 
 Not the end I'd wish for, lad. 
 Where are we, Springer? 
 The place where everything ends up after you throw it out. 
 Brace for impact! 
 (pulling himself free of hull wall) Remind me to give the Auto Pilot a raise... Daniel creeps out from under Arcee and shakes bits of broken metal and dust off his shoulders 
 Wow! That was better'n the Roller Coaster at Future World! 
 (working scanner, computer device, thoughtfully) The composition of this planet seems to be a chaotic amalgam of discarded ferrous and non-ferrous articulations. 
 (baffled) How's that? 
 (opening hull door with a RIPPING OF METAL) He says the planet's made of junk. 
 Yep, this dump is a dump...... 
 as he straps on TOOL BELT 
 We might be able to salvage this thing. (checks LASER DRILL, turns it on, off) Ultra Magnus starts for door followed by Blurr who takes up a saw and tool belt and Perceptor who rolls up Shuttle Plans as Daniel moves out to join them 
 Can I help, too? 
 It's rough out there, kid. Stay inside and play with crayons or something. 
 as she steps forward with a smile, a strange GRID LIKE "SUIT" in her hand 
 I think Daniel can make himself useful with....this! It used to be Spike's. (holds Grid-like metal frame "suit") 
 Wow! Dad's exo-suit. He told me about it but I never saw it. 
 Here, try it on. 
 as he gets inside the "suit" which fits over his body like a grid-work metal "cage." 
 Just think about what you want to do before you do it! 
 brows knitted, thinking. 
 Don't fight it Dan-O. 
 (continuing) It's kind of tricky.... 
 For the first time out, you were great! 
 Show time's over! We've got work to do! (he starts out) 
 (V.O.) (whistles) This must be the junk capital of the universe! 
 WRECK-GAR (in guttural, rusty, metallic rumble) Stop thief! No welcome-wagon, "hello stranger!" that good coffee flavor 
 Yeah, or your money back! Wreck-Gar shows large JUNK GUN with all sorts of razor sharp fins and rusty little rocket missiles mounted around the howitzer like barrel 
 WRECK-GAR Operators are standing by! They laugh in guttural, clanking sounds and look out at Springer and the others who keep working as we 
 Greetings, noble strangers. 
 Yes, me, Grimlock, noble! Me, Grimlock search for friends. 
 And who might they be? 
 Autobots.    Hot Rod and Kup. 
 (feigning recognition) Oh yes. A young one and an old one. 
 Yes.   You know friends.   Where are they? 
 They went down that path. He points to... 
 A It probably isn't lined with primroses, but it should be. 
 You good friend to Grimlock.    I reward you, sometime. 
 Why do you torture me?! 
 You have failed. 
 No, Unicron. Ultra Magnus is dead. 
 Then where is the matrix? 
 Destroyed, with him. 
 The matrix can not be destroyed. (pause) And Ultra Magnus lives on the planet of Junk. Stalk him. Cut him open! And bring the matrix to me. 
! 
 Me Grimlock, positive Hot Rod and Kup close! Get thump, thump, thump... (taps his head hard) 
 Me, Slag say you are full of beryllium balony. He is just about to fall in when... 
 Me, Grimlock, say you full of cesium salami! Slag gets up... 
 Beryllium balony! 
 Argh! 
 Me, Grimlock think trees here are cheap model. 
 Like your head! (laughs at own joke) Grimlock jumps on Slag and wrestles him to the ground. Suddenly, a SQUEAKY, ODDLY CHILDISH VOICE speaks from o.s. 
 (furious) Who say that? 
 HIS P.O.V. - WHEELIE 
 Friends find. Look behind.   Many Face lie. You fool! You buy! 
 (eyes blaze, furious) Me, Grimlock, "fool?" 
 (smiling breezily) Picture you got. Now fool you not! (he laughs in a wild, metallic cackle) Grimlock raises a claw to swipe Wheelie off Slag's head 
 Me, Grimlock, no like you! 
 as he scowls and quickly loads FIRESTONE IN SLING and slings it onto Grimlock's nose where it EXPLODES making Grimlock yowl and pull back, feeling his reddened nose and speaking through his nose angrily 
 (continuing) Doooooooow! Why boy hit by dose? 
 (folds arms across his chest) Wheelie say, find friends today! (nods defiantly) Grimlock and Slag react as we 
 Before we deliver your verdict, would you like to beg for your lives? 
 Remember when you put me together today? 
 (sarcastic) Sure, that's all I got to think about. 
 I know what part you forgot. 
 (V.O.) Silence or I'll hold you in contempt of this court. 
 I have nothing but contempt for this court. 
 That doohickey you lost was part of my shoulder socket. Watch this, lad... without it, I'm double jointed as Houdini. 
 Wish you'd figured that out a little sooner. 
 Better late than never! 
 They've got more Sharkticons than we have photon charges! 
 Let's hold a demolition derby! Then, he roars into a bunch of them, slamming a massive stack into the wall. 
 Didn't even bend a fender. 
 Yeah, but look. There are a lot more of those cam dinging, grill-crackin' things. 
 We can't hold out forever, but we can give them one whopper of a repair bill. 
 (O.S.) 
 (WAR WHOOP) 
 Lowers his teeth to devour a much smaller Sharkticon, the Sharkticon bares his teeth, realizes that he's a second stringer, and scampers away. 
 Me Grimlock want to munch metal! Slag barrels into Sharkticons, making a quick shishkebob out of them, while... 
 I never thought I'd be so happy to see those big bozos. 
 Me Grimlock no bozo.   Me king! 
 Sharkticons! Execute them. 
 Me Grimlock say execute them. 
 I think the problems on this planet will be solved very shortly. 
 But what about our problems.    We need a ship. 
 You get a ship if I get a trip. 
 Who are you. 
 Him Wheelie, him friend. 
 He'll be mine too, if he can find a Quintesson ship. 
 That's a ship? 
 If this doesn't do it, nothing will. 
 now with a new bumpersticker which is a Unicron with a red circle and slash through it, looks very fidgety. 
 Let's get out of here. 
 His mist surrounds the planet... 
 Five, four, three, two, one... 
! 
 It isn't even dented. 
 Let's get out of here! 
 The great Maw opens and we hear a grand cosmic roar! Suddenly, the smoke and space junk from the explosion are sucked into his mouth. 
 We're being sucked into it! 
... 
 Be sure the fittings are securely welded! 
 (very fast, as usual) Absolutely, positively, definitely... 
 This exo-suit is fantastic! (to Blurr) Want me to do that? 
 Weld? You? Really? Well, why not? Give it a try, but think it through first! Daniel knits his brow, extends FINGER OF EXO- GLOVE which is part of exo-suit. 
 Practice, practice, practice! 
 WRECK-GAR Forward, avanti, apfel and like, go for gusto.... (stops as OMINOUS ROAR comes from overhead and he looks up) 
 WRECK-GAR (V.O.) Hang on, this be industrial strength We watch... 
 as he, too, hears and then looks up and sees the Decepticon force 
 Decepticons! (to Springer) We've got to draw them off and then double back to the ship! 
 ...!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Cancel that last order. 
 What do I do? 
 Transform! You can do... (TRANSFORMATION complete, he blurs off and, in V.O. adds) ...it! 
 as he reacts, looks around, thinks, brows knitting, looking off, reacting 
 Transform.... 
 HIS P.O.V.- SCAVENGER 
 as he starts reaching for Daniel 
 Human germ! 
 as his Exo-Suit SUDDENLY TRANSFORMS INTO auto mode and takes off and drives through... 
 (V.O.) Wooooh!! 
 flies up to a ridge in advance of his forces, motioning to them to split off and follow... 
 He lets out a rayblast... 
 Perceptor! 
 He transforms to humanoid mode. 
 It appears that my lacerations were primarily superficial. 
 Then move it... 
 Stays behind, taking a few shots at... 
 which streak over in deadly formations. 
 He stands and shoots. 
 (O.S.) Ultra Magnus! 
 (O.S.) Your estimated survival time is 10 seconds. 
 Then use that time to escape! The Matrix was designed for an emergency like this. I'll try to unleash its power. 
 But what if it doesn't work. 
 Until all are one! 
 Damn it!   Open it! 
 (baffled) Prime, you said the Matrix would light our darkest hour. 
 Sweeps, quarter him! 
 (SCREAMS IN HORROR) 
 Unicron, my "master," with this I shall make you my slave! 
 as he moves out and looks down at Ultra Magnus' remains 
 (tearful) Ultra Magnus! 
 Without the Matrix there is no hope.   No hope at all! 
 WRECK-GAR Don't look behind door number two, Monty. It's time to play End-of-the-line-my valentine! Geroni-roni-doo-ron-ron-i-mo! (he charges) 
 Get gone! 
 A roars alongside Springer on his motorcycle and throws out laser barbed grappling hook, trying to hook Springer. Springer ducks first pass of hook. 
 as he hurls GRAPPLING HOOK AGAIN 
 as he catches HOOK BY THE CHAIN AND YANKS IT 
 He looks over, astonished. 
 It's not hard to knock 'em down. It's getting them to stay down that's the trick. 
 as she fires at a Junkion who is trying to swerve her off the road knocking him off the motorcycle... The Junkion looks down at his missing arm, digs around in the junk for a minute, comes up with another, and then transforms to a motorcycle. 
 as Junkion rides over to her, starts belting her with junk sword 
 They're indestructible! 
 as he skids, stopping his Exo-Suit as he reacts to what's ahead 
 They're everywhere! 
 as he stops and Arcee, Daniel, Perceptor and Blurr stop around him. They close ranks and look out at the Junkions grimly 
 Perhaps they're not as vicious as they look. 
 reacting to Wreck-Gar's noises and eyeball display 
 (to Perceptor) Positive thinking gets    on my nerves. Suddenly, all react to    sound and wind of passing space cruiser    their P.O.V- HOT ROD, KUP AND DINOBOTS    IN CRUISER as it shoots past and banks,    coming back for a closer look 
 (V.O.) It can't be....it's.....Hot Rod!     He's alive! 
 as he looks up at passing Cruiser and waves 
 And Kup and the Dinobots!    We're saved! 
 I wouldn't count on that! (indicating Junkions) 
 Not since the Crocodillos of Strontero have I seen such a sight.... 
 Maybe they make me king, too! 
 Don't hold your breath, your majesty. 
 WRECK-GAR as he watches Cruiser descend and start gliding in for a landing 
 WRECK-GAR Steady as she goes, mob! Snoopy visitors get mud in the eye bye and bye, and film at five! (gives thumbs up sign, RIDES OFF) 
 Everything must go by midnight! With a SINGING ROAR of musical, tribal excitement, the Junkions sweep Springer and our friends along with them, following course of landing Cruiser to 
 as Hot Rod steps out with big smile and hand full of energon sticks followed by a very wary Kup, and the Dinobots with Wheelie riding Sludge's neck. 
 (aside to Kup, still holding smile) Guns aren't exactly friendly. 
 (through his teeth to Hot Rod) Neither are they in case you haven't noticed. 
 (sotto) What was the Universal greeting again? 
 WRECK-GAR growls and slips a SNIPPER, BLOW TORCH CUTTING TOOL out of a holster and starts toward Hot Rod with it 
 
 (big smile) Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong? 
 WRECK-GAR Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong? 
 (nodding, smiling) Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong? (MORE) 
 Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong! Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong.... 
 WRECK-GAR hugs Hot Rod, and Perceptor who winces and tries to enjoy it, and then hugs Daniel, Wheelie, Arcee, laughing and dancing as SINGING goes. 
 as he reacts to Wreck-Gar kissing his leg 
 Yuck! Me Grimlock, not a kisser!   Me, Grimlock, a king! 
 claps his hands and gleefully makes noises as he hops about, dancing with Junkions until we CUT TO 
 WRECK-GAR as he stands on top of platform and RINGS JUNK BELLS AND SIRENS getting silence and smiling as he waves hands all around 
 WRECK-GAR Have a nice day and please, close cover before striking, friends! Amigos, buddies and side kicks, Breep drit, aw rootie! So say the Junkions! (holds hands over his head) 
 Where did you learn to talk like that? 
 WRECK-GAR We talk T.V. You talk some T.V.? 
 looks around nervously. 
 I talk some TV. And now, Hot Rod for the news. Don't touch that dial. Void where prohibited. JUNKIONS cheer wildly while the Dinobots react with uncertainty 
 WRECK-GAR By George kimosabes your smashed up, blotto friend, soon like brand new with ninety day warranty all iciban parts and labor is! 
 WRECK-GAR Happy motoring! Cock-a-doodle-do! 
 You're all alive... 
 The matrix! 
 It's gone... 
 And with it, all hope. 
 No... (inspired) The matrix will not fail us. 
 Didn't you hear Ultra Magnus. We don't have it anymore. Galvatron does. 
 Then we've got to trust in ourselves, and no matter what they odds, destroy Unicron. 
 WRECK-GAR Yeah! Destroy Unicron... Kill the grand poobah.... Flush cosmic troubles down the drain. 
 (almost chanting) Destroy Unicron... Kill the grand poobah... Flush cosmic troubles down the drain. 
 Listen,   I don't want to rain on anybody's parade,   but how are we going to move the army to   Unicron. We don't have enough room on   that ship. 
 WRECK-GAR No fuss, no muss. (to others) Hurry, hurry. Sale must end! Rush right on down to bridge and test drive latest with no obligation. 
 You have ships here? 
 WRECK-GAR New, improved Junkion planet, is sleek sexy import with turbo handling. 
 What's he talking about? 
 This is what I call traveling in style. 
 (V.O.) Listen to me, or suffer the consequences. 
 Aren't we getting pompous? 
 I now possess that which you most fear. Unicron LAUGHS and the force of it rocks the surface of the planet, knocking Galvatron to his knees. 
 You will do my bidding, or... Unicron roars with laughter. 
 ...taste my wrath. 
 You underestimate me Galvatron. 
 For a time, I considered sparing your measly little planet, but now you shall witness its dismemberment! 
 No!!! 
 Decepticons...we're under attack...Scramble - Then his voice is cut off as... 
 Stop feeding him, you fools! 
 I don't believe it. 
 Wow! 
 (V.O.) Doesn't it remind you of something, Kup? 
 (entranced) Nope, never seen anything like it. 
 I knew there had to be a first time.... (using intercom) Battle stations! 
 UNICRON'S CHEST Galvatron, the matrix hanging around his neck. Transforms to Cannon and fires up at... ... A bright panel on Unicron's chest... 
! 
 WRECK-GAR (V.O.) Patented enamel resists fire, rain and corrosion. Five year warranty, satisfaction guaranteed. 
 Or your money back! 
 ... tears it in half. 
 WRECK-GAR (V.O.) Unshakable, unbreakable, unbeatable. And for a limited time we include... 
 Free bonus surprise! 
 (V.O.) Most unscientific, but... effective. 
 (V.O.) Graaaaaaaaaaa! 
 Where's Hot Rod? 
 Sees something in the distance. 
 I don't know, but I hope they didn't get him. 
 Debugoids! 
 Quick!   This way. 
 The Autobot Matrix! 
 It will do you no good, Autobot.   It cannot be opened. 
 Not by a Decepticon. 
 It is strange that we should find ourselves as allies... 
 Suddenly, his body is violently twisted, and his arms are almost broken off. 
 Uhhhh... 
 Destroy him, or feel yourself torn from limb to limb. 
 Of course, my master! 
 He peers into the gloom. 
 Weapon drawn. 
 Puny Autobot, you lack even Prime's courage. There is no response. 
 Unicron now stands atop Cybertron, fighting the various ships that swarm around him like bees. ... Rays streak from his one good eye. ... (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 Me Grimlock kick Butt. 
 Me, Grimlock, need new strategy. 
 He looks o.s. towards the others. 
 Help... 
 Daniel! 
 I'm okay.    They don't even see me. 
 They must not programmed to catch flesh creatures. 
 Us, on the other hand... 
 Daniel... Try to find help! Arcee fires... 
 UNICRON'S STOMACH This is the central processing area for Unicron's "food" and "energy." A long conveyer belt drops junk into a clear, bubbling vat, where it is separated into raw material and energy. The energy, which comes out in raw form, goes into a machine and is crunched into energon cubes, while the solid material, is separated into it's component metals and plastics, formed into ingots and sent elsewhere in an assembly line fashion. 
 watches this with awe until he sees... 
 He dashes to the shores of the glowing lake... 
 Cliffjumper! Jazz! 
 Bumblebee!     Dad! 
 Shut off the control, Daniel. Daniel looks around. 
 A ..     which controls the whole thing. 
 He runs up a catwalk towards it.... 
 What do I do? It doesn't have any buttons or anything. 
 Shoot it, Son. 
 But I don't have a gun. 
 Use your exo-suit. 
 Hurry! 
 Starts frying the command console! 
 I can't stop it! 
 turns around and sees this. 
 Dad! 
 Son. 
 You did it! 
 Come out, Autobot. We all must die sometime. 
 stumbles backward. 
 No, I will crush you with bare hands. Hot Rod transforms back to car and tries to race away... ... Galvatron jumps after him and catches him... ... Hot Rod, nearly pinned by Galvatron transforms to humanoid mode. 
 First Prime, then Ultra Magnus and now you. It is a pity Autobots die so easily or I might have a sense of satisfaction now. Hot Rod desperately gasps and pulls at Galvatron's hands... 
 WRECK-GAR Ashes to ashes. Junk to junk. 
 Gasps. 
 Die! 
 On Hot Rod, his hands, nearly dead, spring to life for a moment and grasp the Matrix which hangs from Galvatron's chest. 
 A miraculous transformation takes place. ... Hot Rod begins to grow at an alarming rate. ... Age shows on his face. ... He is stronger and wiser. 
 Optimus! 
 Nooooooo! 
 This is the end of the road, Galvatron. With that, he picks up the Decepticon and throws him through... 
 I'm almost out of energy. Suddenly, he looks up and sees one of the creatures explode above 
 That's what I call the nick of time. 
 Let's burn rubber! 
 I knew you had potential, lad! 
 Autobots, transform and roll out. Rodimus Prime transforms into truck mode as the other Autobots also transform. Daniel and Spike jump into him. Then, in a continuous line, he shoots off, the other Autobots racing behind him. 
! 
 
