 
 (O.S.) Nothing yet. 
 Wait a minute -- there's Hal. (beat) And his date. 
 
 How do they look? 
 (O.S.) He's signalling "okay." 
 (O.S.) Where's Gabe? 
 (O.S.) Right where he's supposed to be. 
 Excuse me -- I know you're my salvation, and all -- do you think you could rescue us before your smoke break? 
 Maybe you could tell me why I am rescuing you. 
 Basically -- I've fallen down, and I can't get up... 
 (into radio) Rescue One -- have located helpless climber, please prepare idiot line for transport, over -- 
 
 Rescue One -- please remind me to tell you about the time I hauled your hero here down Mt. Huntington on my back, over -- 
 (O.S.) (through radio) Hal, if I hear that story one more time, I'm making you limp down the entire three thousand feet, over -- 
 (to Susan) This guy showing you a good time? 
 Now, remember -- keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all times -- 
 (laughing) Fuck you -- 
 
 Ready? (sees she's afraid) Did he tell you about the time he almost made it up Everest? 
 He said you gave him a bad oxygen mask -- 
 Well, if he's bored you with that bullshit, then this has to be the best part of a bad date. Right? 
 Ready? 
 (scared but tough) Okay -- 
 I can't -- 
 Yes you can. (reassuring) You can do it. Don't look down.  The whole way across, don't look down. Look at me. Just keep looking at me -- and you'll be okay. 
 Sure? 
 Yeah. (beat) I have always depended on the kindness of Rangers. 
 
 
 
 (loud, in control) Hold on. I'm coming out to get you. 
 
 
 Keep looking at me. Hold on -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Take this. (Gabe does) Afraid of flying? 
 Falling. 
 Midsize? 
 Any size, any color, any model. 
 How long will you be needing it? 
 (flat) Just under six hours. 
 (O.S.) You aren't wasting any time, are you? 
 
 I knew you'd be coming by. Today. 
 If you're in that much of a hurry, why don't you ride with me? 
 This is new... 
 It's a thermal scope -- picks up body heat of lost hikers -- 
 Still find the dead ones the old fashioned way, I guess. 
 You could have said goodbye. 
 (shakes head) If I did, I'd have to listen to you tell me one more time that it wasn't my fault. 
 (angry) Today -- especially today -- you get to hear it again. The harness clip broke.  Cold stress -- one in a million equipment failure. You and Hal could have checked it from then till now and it still would have happened. (beat) You did everything right -- 
 -- If I did everything right, Susan Collins would still be alive. 
 Do you really believe all that?  That it wasn't our fault? 
 (turns to Gabe) Yes. Yes, I do. 
 I'm not sure what I wish more, Maggie. That you meant what you said, just now -- or that it were really true then. 
 Maggie, where the hell have you been? I've got two climbers out -- 
 Brett and Evan are up there again to jump off the spur. Their wives called twice. I want you in the air and I want them found before the storm system moves in. (Maggie hesitates) Now. 
 Christ. You're in charge of Rescue now? 
 There was a vacancy. Maybe you heard about it. The last guy lost his nerve and lit out of town. 
 Well, you're a better man than I am, Hal. Nothing rattles you. 
 (steering Gabe away) Gabe! Long time, son -- why don't you come meet some of the new guys -- 
 Good idea. Say, Hal? (beat) Why don't you come with me so we can show these rookies how to death-rig a woman properly? 
 Take the Bronco to where you're going. I've already been. Then go back to wherever it is you like to hide. And stay there. 
 
 Tell Wright the San Francisco shipment is ready. 
 (phone already out) Right away, Mr. Travers. 
 (into phone) Good -- good. I'll be right down. 
 (O.S.) You can't go in there -- 
 (O.S.) Watch me. 
 Walter Wright? (flashes badge) Matheson. FBI. We need to talk. 
 We'll be fueled and ready in ten minutes, Mr. Travers. 
 (an order) Be ready in five. 
 (O.S.) Go ahead and take ten. We'll need the time. 
 (flashes badge) Matheson. FBI. 
 (looking down at it) Your parents must be proud. (to Wright) What the fuck is this about? 
 Small problem with the shipment, Travers. (to Matheson) Tell him what you just told me. 
 We got word that somebody's been observing your currency shipments -- this load, the $5,000s -- over the last three deliveries. 
 (laughs) There isn't a hell of a lot anyone can do but observe. (beat) This is the most protected shipment we've got -- and the most useless for a thief. Those bills aren't in circulation. You think five thousand dollar bills are easy to pass? Who the fuck would try? 
 This guy might. 
 Who is he? 
 (patient) His name's Eric Qualen. One of the East German spies who got shut out by the reunification. The CIA issued an inter-agency warning about him right after the wall came down. He's got nowhere to go and nothing to lose. He's also got the international connections to get rid of bills like these -- and he's probably desperate enough to try for them. Fifty million bucks buys a lot of sanctuary. 
 Could you get to the part where I'm supposed to care? 
 (shows him more photos) We had two agents monitoring him. These two -- Gleason and Quinones. Their last report said he was going to try to take this shipment. 
 (turning away) Thanks for the tip. But I've got work to do. 
 (stopping him) Did I say "last" report? I think I did. I mean last fucking report. These guys have vanished. 
 You have my sympathy, but -- (exasperated) There's a reason we do things this way, all right? Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight. The only time this is on the ground is at the mint, or on the Presidio runway in San Francisco. Either way, someone would have to shoot his way past a couple of thousand guards. 
 If you're worried about an inside job, forget it. I checked the plane from top to bottom an hour ago. And these three are my best against. Even if one of them did go skydiving, they wouldn't get far. Each case has an electronic tracer with a range of one hundred miles. 
 (facing down Matheson) I haven't lost a bill in eight years. And I'm not scrubbing this shipment because you scare easily. 
 (an easy smile) Who said anything about stopping the shipment? (beat) I've been tracking Qualen for almost a year. If he pulls something, I want to be in on the party. 
 This is cleared from the top, Travers. Matheson will accompany you on the flight to San Francisco. (beat) Show him every professional courtesy. 
 
 Rescue One to base, over. 
 (O.S.) Rescue One -- have you sighted them? Over -- 
 Negative, Hal -- storm's already moving in -- I can't see them, and winds are too strong to stay up here -- over -- 
 (O.S.) Rescue One -- abort. They'll be all right. Brett and Evan are dumb enough not to log in, but they're smart enough to have storm gear. Head back to base. (not unkindly) Maybe you can catch Gabe before he leaves. Over. 
 I don't think he's planning a long visit, Hal. (back to business) Rescue One heading back to base, over and out. 
 (freezing) Way to check the weather, Brett. 
 (shivering yet macho) Hey. If it were easy, it wouldn't be worth d-doing. 
 Just enjoy the view, huh? (Matheson says nothing) Relax. I mean, what could happen in the air? 
 (to other agents) Stay put! Don't panic, goddammit! 
 He's coming in too slow. 
 (cool) No -- we're going too fast, and we're too high up. Push flaps forward twenty degrees and drop to five thousand feet. 
 (to agent) You got any rifles? 
 Forward compartment -- left side -- 
 
 What the hell are you doing -- 
 Checked the plane from top to bottom, huh? You fucker -- (clicks hammer back) Put your hands behind your head! It's over! 
 Calm down -- give the gun to me -- 
 (to other agents) There's a couple of dead bodies in the front compartment -- they're FBI agents -- 
 He's losing it -- 
 Goddamn it! Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the fucking shipment! (back to Travers) Don't make me shoot you! 
 Don't make me laugh. 
 (to mouthpiece) Move into position. 
 
 
 (into radio) More -- more -- keep it coming -- 
 
 (into radio) Locked on. Move into lateral position. 
 Moving into lateral position. 
 We're right on the edge of the storm -- let's move it. 
 This isn't going to work -- Wright will suspect something. 
 So what. He'll sift though a plane that went down in a storm -- (gestures to bodies) -- find enough pulverized bone for six men heroically killed in the line of duty -- (finds three suitcases) -- and just enough of the right kind of ash. 
 We get twenty-one gun funerals and they write off fifty million. It's perfect, as long as you hold the plane steady -- so concentrate. 
 (into radio) Travers -- hurry it up. 
 (into radio) On my way. 
 That charge is going to blow both engines -- the plane'll go down like a rock, so clip yourself on to the end of the cable with the money as soon as I get over. (an afterthought) And make sure you bring the right cases. 
 (into the headset) Dip the plane. I'm coming over. 
 QUALEN'S JET 
 (shouting over the wind) Why didn't you send the money over? 
 (shouting too) Somehow, I didn't think you'd have waited for me if I'd sent it first. 
 (shouting to cockpit) Get underneath the jet! The cases will slide over! 
 (shouting) Lower! Get underneath it! 
 It's dragging us down! Disconnect the cable! 
 
 So much for phase one. (to Travers) Now what? 
 Now -- we call the police. 
 Look -- I know there's a storm, but that wasn't thunder. 
 (unconcerned) Hal, when you've been in this line as long as I have -- 
 (O.S.) (panicky) Mayday -- mayday -- downed DC-3 -- mayday -- 
 Rocky Mountain Rescue -- come in, mayday -- 
 Downed charter flight alpha-charlie-niner-- (keys mike to "garble" transmission) -- dead, seven seriously wounded, acknowledge -- 
 Acknowledged, mayday. What's your position? 
 (O.S.) ("panicked") Don't know -- position unknown -- landed on top of some mountain -- only visual bearing is a facing cylinder-type formation -- over -- 
 Got to be Comb Bluff. (keys mike) Acknowledged, mayday. Winds are too strong for us to get a copter up there -- can you and your passengers make it through the storm? Over -- 
 (O.S. Negative -- cockpit is on fire -- fuselage broken into three sep-- ("garble") --ed in shock.  Need medical supplies, including insulin, repeat, insulin, as soon as po -- 
 Mayday -- come in, mayday -- 
 Not bad. The insulin was a nice touch. 
 
 Maggie? 
 Hey there -- 
 Hi. (beat) Could you introduce us? 
 Sure. Gabe Walker -- this is A27. A27 -- Gabe. 
 Not the tag -- what do you call him? 
 Her. I call her Lucky. 
 (bends down, eyes wound) Poachers? (Maggie nods) Bastards... 
 They got the mother -- and left this one behind. Too small to make a decent trophy, I guess. 
 About four months, right? (Maggie nods) Christ -- it must have been just about his -- I mean her -- first flight -- 
 Time to change the dressing. 
 You can't do that alone -- 
 I've had to learn. She trust me -- 
 I'm making her nervous -- (beat) You hold her, I'll do the dressing. 
 Got some fight in her -- that's good. (beat) What happened to Dave? 
 The usual. Flew off -- never calls, never writes -- 
 I'm glad to see you, Gabe. But I kind of wish you hadn't come. I was almost used to you being gone. (beat, quiet) Why are you here? 
 (pauses) I thought I came back to see if I'd learned to live with it. Well, big surprise. Coming back just tore me open all over again, like it all happened yesterday instead of a year ago. Nothing's changed. Including the way I feel about you. (beat) I didn't realize it till I saw you at the airport. But I came back for you, Maggie. 
 Does that mean you're going to stay? 
 No. Not here. (beat) I want you come with me. Start over, somewhere else. 
 (incredulous) You come back after being gone a year, and you expect me to -- (beat) You don't live here any more, Gabe. Your choice, remember? But this is my home. I'm not leaving. You can stay with me, or you can go alone. It's still your choice. 
 (O.S.) Now there's an easy call. 
 What the hell do you want? 
 (beat) I need your help. A plane's gone down on Comb Bluff. This storm would blow a copter all over the place -- but we can climb up to it. 
 "We"? (beat) Talk to somebody who's still on the payroll. You've got a half dozen new guys -- 
 -- who couldn't climb that wall now if there were stairs cut into it. But you've soloed it. 
 During the summer. On a bet. 
 This is a little more important than a bet. Just a few injured people with no first aid or shelter, camping in a zero degree blizzard. They'll be ice sculptures by tomorrow morning. 
 (shakes his head) Maybe you missed the headlines -- but I don't do rescues any more. They're bad for my conscience. (beat) Fuck this one up on your own. 
 Play it again, Gabe, about how we killed her. I was there too, remember? 
 (hot) Not like I was, pal -- her fingers brushed mine on the way down -- 
 (right back) -- and I was the one who had to deal with her family when you fucking tore out of town. (takes a breath) We lost her. Whatever anybody says about cold stress and the clip, you and I have to live with that. But right now, there are some more people who need our help, and they shouldn't die too just because you've got a problem keeping the past in the past. 
 I don't want the responsibility. 
 Walk away and you are responsible. They'll die. I can't do this alone. (Gabe slows but doesn't stop) You know what else, Gabe? You can go anywhere you want, but if you don't do this, now, you're going to be stuck on that goddamn ledge for the rest of your life. 
 (indicating gun) That thing's dead weight. Completely useless for an ice climb. 
 Just backup. 
 (not a challenge) I'll lead. I left a few bolts last time I climbed this -- I think I can find some of them. 
 Save the rope for when it gets tough. (beat, realizing) That bet was for you to free climb the wall. 
 (further up) Tell you what, Hal -- if we're still alive tomorrow morning, I'll give you the twenty bucks back, okay? 
 (shouting down) Anchored! 
 
 
 
 (shouting down) Rockslide! 
 
 
 
 HAL - FALLING 
 
 
 
 (shaken, voice gone) Anchored -- (shouts this time) Anchored! 
 
 (breathless too) You're sure this time -- 
 (looking up at gun) Don't say it -- 
 (wheezing too) It's kind of hard to resist -- 
 GABE                         HAL It's not dead                It's not dead weight -- you                weight -- I am. are. 
 
 (into mouthpiece) Have they arrived? (two beeps in response) Good. Return to the plane and cover your tracks. 
 (to others) Get ready. 
 Come on -- the hard part's over. 
 (grim) That's it. 
 I thought the fuselage was broken. That looks pretty cozy. 
 (puzzled too) The pilot was hysterical. 
 Something's wrong here -- 
 Does this look like a prank to you? Come on -- 
 Relax -- we're here to help -- 
 Don't try to talk -- 
 (hoarse whisper) Where? 
 -- Where? What are you -- 
 You said "we". Where are the rest? 
 What's for dinner? (Kynette tosses packet) Ugh. "Dried Beef Slices With Barbeque Sauce." (tosses it back) Try and make this edible. 
 Hal Tucker. (to Gabe) Where's yours? 
 He doesn't have one. Just a wallet. 
 Gabe Walker... (notes photo of Maggie) Very attractive. 
 My ex. 
 Too bad. Let me tell you what's on for today. We'd like you to help settle a wager. You see, we lost some luggage -- 
 (showing them the blips) See these? Now I've bet the gentlemen behind you that you know enough about this mountain range to lead us to each of these, quickly, and that you'd be happy to do so. They bet me you couldn't and wouldn't. (guns are clicked) Now tell me -- who wins? 
 Good dog. Now let's get this expedition started. 
 Okay. Connect the dots. 
 This way. 
 (sotto) We don't have to do this. We know these mountains -- they don't. If we can get ahead -- 
 Can you climb faster than they can shoot? 
 We've got to try something. Think we'll get a finder's fee after they get all their "luggage"? 
 Sure. All the bullets we can eat. 
 That's not what really worries me. 
 There's something else to worry about? 
 Yeah. Once they've got what they're after -- they're gonna need a copter to get out of here. 
 (realizing) Maggie. 
 Hold it. (beat) It's up there. 
 Fetch. 
 I'll need the ice axe. 
 (laughs) You've got to be kidding. 
 (sighs) Okay. How about some tape? 
 Crampons too. 
 I don't trust him. 
 (indicating wall) Where could he go? 
 I'd rather he didn't show us. (beat) We don't need two guides. 
 (shrugs) You win. Kill him when he gets down. 
 Jesus. 
 (impatient, shouting) Lower it down -- now! 
 (O.S.) (shouting down) I've got a better idea. Why don't you come up and get it? 
 (shouts to Heldon) Get him! 
 
 
 (shouting) Bring the money down, or we kill your friend! 
 We can't. (frowning) And he knows it. 
 
 
 Come on -- 
 
 
 
 You son of a bitch -- 
 No. We need him to get the rest of the money. (he isn't backing down) If he dies we lose everything 
 (to Hal) Get us out of here. 
 What the hell -- 
 
 Brett -- you're not going to believe this -- but a couple of guys are holding a gun on Hal and forcing him up the bluff -- 
 (O.S.) I believe it. 
 
 What the fuck is going on here? 
 Let's catch up and find out. 
 
 (O.S.) -- Come in, Rescue Unit -- over -- 
 (keying mike) Rescue Unit -- what's going on, Hall? -- over -- 
 No tricks, no procedural codes, no personal messages -- just tell them everything's under control and you're taking care of the wounded. 
 (keys it) We've reached the wreckage -- top of Comb Bluff -- six injured, but they're responding to treatment. Everything A-OK. Over. 
 (O.S.) Everything isn't okay, Hal -- I'm coming up after you -- over -- 
 Negative, Maggie. Winds are too high, and the passengers' injuries are all superficial. We're going to ride out the storm here -- over -- 
 Have her come up. 
 Forget it -- downdrafts would wipe her all over the peaks -- (Travers starts to argue) -- Not that I expect you to give a shit, but it's our only copter. You'll be stuck. 
 (O.S.) I can handle the winds -- 
 (breaking in) Forget about it, Maggie, that's an order -- acknowledge -- 
 Acknowledged. Let me talk to Gabe -- over -- 
 (O.S.) (hesitates) You can't. He's taking care of passengers. Just like I should be. Over and out. 
 (snatching radio away) Good. You might live longer than your friend. Now -- (takes out monitor) -- what? 
 The next one's on top of the peak. This'll be long, but easy -- more like a hike than a climb. 
 (suspicious) It looks like a winding route. 
 There's a more direct route. The East Face. But it's the wall on the other side, and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather. Only a psycho would try it in a snowstorm. 
 
 (furious) Okay -- I know it's not in San Francisco. I know it's not here. I know it's not in any fucking airport from here to Montana. Where it's not - we got that covered. Now, do you have any ideas on where it is? 
 (walking to a map) There's no radio contact, sir. At all. We're not receiving the tracer signal from the cockpit's flight recorder. Radar lost it after it went low here. 
 We have to assume it went down in the storm. 
 Air search? 
 (shakes head) That storm hasn't quit yet. Weather service says we've got it until tomorrow morning at least. Even if we could get a plane up now, it'd be impossible to see anything on the ground. And -- 
 -- The roads are shut down, right? 
 Most of this area doesn't even have roads. 
 (rubs his eyes) Keep two copters on full standby. And let me know the second that storm starts to wind down. 
 (teeth chattering) A steambath. (spikes himself up) A steambath -- and a bottle of whiskey. (new foothold) A steambath with a bottle of Glenlivet. And a fire. (new handhold) A steambath -- with a bottle of Glenlivet -- and a steak. (new foothold) A steak soaked with Glenlivet, cooking over a steambath on fire. 
 
 GABE'S FACE 
 
 (sighing) Sorry, Gordon -- I promise I'll have it back tomorrow. 
 Come on -- tourists take this trail. 
 
 Is this it? 
 Yeah. This is it. 
 Good. Get out of the way. 
 (smiling) This way. 
 
 
 (calling behind) It's over here! 
 A 
 (incredulous) He's still alive. (furious) He's still alive! (to Qualen and the others) He can't be far away -- spread out! 
 (to Hal, brandishing gun) Put your hands on your head. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GABE'S POV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (to Kynette) Follow him! 
 (gestures with light) After you. 
 Well -- look at the bright side. (beat) At least you've only got to make the split five ways now. 
 
 Please still be there -- oh, please -- 
 (mouth full) Mmm. Just like -- chicken. 
 We've got a fix on the plane, sir -- we're getting a reading on the flight recorder tracer -- 
 Any visual? Any radio contact? 
 Not yet -- 
 (heading to the door) Get the copters ready. We take off in three minutes. 
 The winds are still too strong -- 
 Sorry to hear it. We're still going. The plane might be intact. 
 Sir -- 
 Shut up. That fifty million isn't coming out of my pension. 
 Still interested in staying alive? 
 (pointing to map) It's up here. Somewhere on the Tower. There's a way to cross over to the top in about half a day. 
 Show me. 
 (O.S.) They're heading toward the opposite edge. An easy way down. 
 I'll cut around this side, and wind up in front. You come up behind them -- quietly. And we've got 'em. 
 Brett -- they've got five guns -- 
 And you can collect them all after I get the drop on 'em. Let's get moving. 
 
 
 End of the line! 
 (nervous now) You heard me! Drop the guns! 
 "End of the line"? That's classic. (beat) You've got style. So, I'm going to give you a three-count to figure out how to turn the safety off. 
 Nice try. I've got one of these at home. Now drop 'em. 
 Hey -- where's the other guy -- 
 (shouting) Brett, behind you! 
 
 (turning to face Hal) Time to -- 
 What are we going to do -- 
 You came up here to jump the spur -- (pulls Evan's chute out of his pack) This'd be a great time to do it. 
 (panicked) But -- 
 (quick) Listen -- they don't know you're up here -- I'll draw their fire, you've got to make the jump and get help. 
 I don't -- I -- uh -- 
 (exasperated, grabs chute) Unless you want to do it the other way around? 
 EVAN'S FOOTPRINTS 
 
 
 
 Stop! 
 
 
 
 
 EVAN - FALLING 
 GABE - WATCHING 
 Come on -- wait till you're out of range -- don't pull it yet -- 
 
 
'S 
 
 
 
 Was that Walker? 
 No such luck. (to Hal, smiling) Cheer up. Everyone should die in a spot this beautiful. 
 (quietly) Don't worry. You will. 
 Maggie -- what are you doing -- 
 I'm going to go nuts if I sit here one more hour. 
 Still a little breezy out, Mag -- 
 (over engine's whine) You coming? 
 Forget about it. He's smart, but he's not invisible. 
 
 
 
 What can you confirm? 
 Well, sir -- it crashed. That, I can confirm. (condescending) We've been here just about one hour. These events take months to analyze. So if you'll excuse me -- 
 No, I don't think I will. The reason the FAA pays you is to exercise your vast, amazing knowledge of these "events". So I expect you to come up with some stunning insights, something a slow-witted fuck like me hasn't already observed. (gesturing to wreckage) One: it didn't blow up in mid-air, because the debris isn't widely dispersed. But was there a bomb on board that could have disabled it? I wonder. (pointing back) Two: There wasn't an attempted landing. Otherwise, there'd be debris to the east of the wreckage, where the plane was coming from. Did it come straight down? That's got me scratching my head too. (gesturing back to wreckage) And three: the flight recorder's tracer led us here in the first place. So where is the goddamn thing? That one's got me all aflush with curiosity. 
 (a little cowed) You'll be the first to know. 
 Oh, I believe you. 
 I thought you said there was an easy way across. 
 There is. You might not like it much. 
 Of course -- we'll have to do it hand over hand. Seems I forgot my harness. Sorry. 
 Don't be. Lead on. 
 HAL'S FACE 
 GABE'S FACE 
 I didn't need to see that. I really didn't. 
 
 Got 'em -- they're under the trees -- 
 Hal! Gabe! 
 It's Evan. (she stands, looks up) Parachute failed. 
 (not unkindly) Damn fool. Why would anybody try that in the middle of a storm. 
 Why would anybody try at all. (sighs) Get the bag. 
 Should've taken that left turn at Albequerque. 
 
 It's just like any other side move -- you can't see where the fuck you're going, that's all -- 
 
 (garbled) Much better. 
 
 
 (motioning down) Bring it down here. 
 Maggie -- 
 Just do it, Frank. 
 Maggie, this is dumb -- 
 No it isn't. I'm going to find Brett -- I don't want to have to talk to his widow too. Fly Evan's body back to base -- I'll call you when I've found Brett. Or Hal. Or Gabe. Or anybody. 
 
 (motioning up) I'm going back. 
 Look -- this part is nothing, believe me -- 
 Walker should be coming up by now. 
 
 (winded) So much for the easy part. 
 
 He's on the way up. I could hear that jacket before I could see it. 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Then get the money, kill him and get back here. Now. 
 (into radio) I'll wait till he comes to me. 
 
 
 (into radio) Bulletin. The climber isn't Walker -- it's a woman. 
 Rotten weather for a climb, huh? (aims barrel) I have two questions I'd like to trouble you with. Ready? 
 This first one's easy. Do you know a man named Gabe Walker? 
 Yes. (breathless, scared) Where is he? 
 You don't know either? I am sorry. That was question number two. (lowers barrel) Thanks for your time. 
 
 
 
 
 Come on -- 
 Where? -- 
 Here. 
 Today, goddamit! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This way. (off Maggie's look) I like the outside of the mountain better too, but -- 
 
 Stop. 
 We can't -- 
 I need to stop. 
 (looks at Maggie) I'm glad to see you -- but Christ, I wish you hadn't come. 
 Don't tell me -- 
 (disengaging) He's still alive. 
 For another two minutes. 
 It hurts just looking at you. 
 (still panting) Try it from this side. Do you still have your radio? 
 It's not going to work in here. 
 Let's give it a try. (she hands it to him) I'm in bad need of a ride. (keys it) Come in, Rescue Unit -- 
 (O.S.) (over radio) -- Come in, Rescue One -- 
 Patience. 
 (O.S.) (over radio, broken up) -- Come in, Frank -- 
 Is there anybody else on the radio? 
 I take a year off and the department goes to hell. (keys it) -- Come in, Rescue Unit -- 
 A 
 A 
 (O.S.) (via radio) Come in, Frank -- over -- 
 Try to get thirty million in entertainment out of this, because he is definitely in for thirty million worth of pain. 
 INSERT - TIMER 
 
 You sick fuck -- 
 Don't worry. They may still be alive. That was the small one. 
 
 Jesus -- that's some flare. 
 
 Are you all right? 
 (terrified, coughing) Why are they doing this? 
 
 (looks up) We might be able to get up that way -- there's an opening -- 
 No -- there could be another bomb up there -- even if there isn't, we could get another cave-in. The only sure way out is through the side. 
 I've got something here. 
 Let's have it. 
 There's an unconfirmed report of a distress call made from a plane that crashed. 
 That's really, really interesting, but -- (gestures around) -- kind of old news, don't you think? 
 This call was supposedly made from a plane that crash landed. After it landed. 
 (waves it off) Sounds like they got it wrong. Next time you interrupt my work make sure it's something I can use. 
 (smiling) Come on -- we're almost out. 
 A 
 
 Miss me? 
 
 
 
 (looks to Hal) You might say a few words for your friends -- this is the one that will bury them. 
 
 What happened? 
 I'm not sure -- I set the timer -- 
 (keying radio) Gabe, it's a dud -- 
 Move! 
 
 
 When I was seventeen, I was a sentry on the East Berlin boundary. There was a problem, then -- too many defectors were managing to sneak through the wilderness to the west. A man would take them through, every night of every week -- a man like your friend. (beat) He had quite a sense of humor. Every time he got someone through, he'd radio us at midnight to let us know how many. "Five tonight." "Eight more have been freed tonight." No one could find the route. It made me look bad. (beat) I looked day and night and finally I found it. A tunnel. I didn't tell me superiors. I put a charge there, with a timer to trigger a radio receiver on the detonator. At midnight. Our friend made his radio report, and I heard him say "seven" before the explosion. (beat) They pulled eight bodies out of the tunnel, and I was promoted to intelligence the next day. 
 Thanks. We couldn't have killed him without you. 
 Knock this in the side. Make it firm. 
 (O.S.) Bad news. There's another bomb up there. We've got to move quick. 
 (O.S.) Good news. There's a cave down there. 
 
 Maggie -- come in, Maggie, this is Rescue One -- 
 
 There's our ride out of here. Everyone out of sight -- except you, Kristel. (hands her radio) Make the distress call. You're so good at it. 
 (frantic) What are we going to do? 
 (defeated) Die. I'm sorry, Maggie. I'm sorry you got into this. 
 What are you doing? 
 He didn't think a distress call from a crashed plane was "important"? (Davis nods) Get me a fucking radio! Now! 
 (over radio) Come in, Maggie, over -- 
 (O.S.) (over radio -- "weak") Alpha Charlie Niner -- please -- help -- 
 (over radio) I copy, Charlie Niner -- what's your position -- over -- 
 (over radio) Sit tight, Charlie Niner -- I'm right on top of you. 
 (shouting, waving) Frank! Down here! Frank! 
 Forget about it. He can't hear you. (hands Maggie some rope) Tie these together. Tight. 
 (realizing) -- Are you out of your mind -- 
 This is rope from the Gordon exhibit. The way guys climbed then, they'd tie on three at a time -- this rope'll take around nine hundred pounds. 
 Gabe -- this rope is sixty years old -- 
 (misses the point) Yeah, they made it pretty good then. Each of these strands ought to hold about 300 pounds before snapping. 
 (dazed) Ought to. About. (beat) Will it hold? 
 Depends on how big a breakfast you had. You want to go first? 
 (shouting) Swing towards it -- and drop! 
 What the fuck -- 
 What -- who are -- 
 Don't worry. I'm here to help. 
 (recovered) Glad to hear it. 
 Jailhouse load. First chamber's empty -- (aims gun) -- the rest aren't. Forgive me, but things have been a little strange this morning. 
 
 Stop! (explaining) You'll damage the helicopter. 
 (to Kristel) Answer that. 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Calling Rocky Mountain Rescue -- come in, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- over -- 
 (keying radio) Rocky Mountain Rescue One, over -- 
 This is Ross Stuart, Federal Aviation Administration -- please identify -- over -- 
 Copy, FAA. This is Margaret Deighan, Rocky Mountain Rescue. Over -- 
 (O.S.) We have an unconfirmed report of an air crash in your area, and a distress call on this frequency -- can you confirm -- over -- 
 (keying mike) Copy, FAA. Distress call came at approximately eleven hundred hours yesterday. I investigated -- the call turned out to be a false alarm. Over. 
 Please repeat, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- distress call was a false alarm? -- over -- 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Repeat, distress call was a definite false alarm -- we've had several here. Somebody's sick idea of a joke. Do you require further assistance -- over -- 
 Not from you. Thanks, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- over and out -- 
 I don't want to say I told you so. But I did. Can I go back to work now? 
 I almost believed you myself. 
 
 (quiet) Goodbye, Frank. 
 Time for number three. Unless you want to have a longer conversation with him elsewhere. 
 (low) Fuck off. 
 I think I'll wait here. You just murdered three of my friends. Sooner or later, whoever's chasing you is going to show up and return the favor, and I'd love to watch. 
 Suit yourself. You see, we just had a little interface with several branches of the federal government -- one of whose members I know has zero imagination -- and I can tell you, the cavalry just isn't going to make it by this week. (beat) No, you're taking us where we want to go. Because you want to return that favor and you want to do more than watch. You want to kill me -- more than anything, even more than you want to keep on breathing, and with a little more time you pray you'll get that chance. (tightens trigger) Am I right? 
 Are you okay? 
 My ears are ringing -- but I'm all right. Gabe, what's going on? 
 (shows money in his pack) This. That plane crash -- it's a half dozen guys who were smart enough to steal fifty million bucks, but dumb enough to drop it all over the range. They've got Hal as a bird dog -- and right now they're heading for the rest of it. 
 Where? 
 It's close to the lake -- Hal's probably leading them on the slowest possible route down to it. (stiffly gets up) I can get there first -- all I have to do is make it along the north wall to the Bitker ladder -- 
 "All?" Jesus, Gabe -- what do you expect to do then? 
 (aching) Something -- subtle. 
 I'm going with you. 
 No way. You're climbing back down -- try to get to the station or find some help. 
 I'm just as good a climber as you are -- and right now, I'm definitely in better shape. 
 (hard) And you're definitely not going -- 
 Okay. Come on -- 
 -- but the second you slow me down, I'm leaving -- (slips on sore leg, Maggie catches him) -- I'm leaving you behind. Understood? 
 (helping Gabe out) Anything you say, Gabe. 
 (O.S.) One of the currency cases. 
 We've tested the ash inside -- it's the right paper. 
 What about the men? 
 It's -- hard to tell. But forensics says yes. All of them were in the plane. 
 (sags with the news) Everything's accounted for, then -- time to head back and start making excuses. (beat) Fifty million bucks up in smoke, and I just don't give a shit. It's one more run of the press. But we lost five good men and they aren't so easily replaced. (beat) Especially a guy like Travers. 
 Qualen. How far along are you? 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Not as far as we'd be with the helicopter. 
 (O.S.) (over radio) We have less than half a tank of fuel, Eric -- if we burn it up treasure hunting we'll never get off this rock. Now -- how far away are you? 
 (keys radio) It looks like two miles, but -- 
 -- it'll take some time. 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Time we have -- Walker's dead, Wright's an idiot. And our guide -- 
 (keys radio) What about him? 
 (O.S.) (over radio) As soon as he becomes a convenience instead of a necessity -- kill him. 
 (keys radio) Agreed. 
 
 Gabe? (beat) I'll go first. 
 (shakes his head) If I don't go first, I might not go at all. 
'S 
 
 OVERVIEW - GABE 
 
 (winded, shouting across) Think you can beat my time? 
 
 
 (to himself) Shit -- she is in better shape. 
 
 (enjoying it now) Quit sandbagging it -- I haven't got all day -- 
 
 
 
 That -- tears it. (gasping) You're not coming any further. 
 (just as breathless) Gabe -- you're going to get yourself killed -- 
 (breath almost back) Maybe. But I'm not getting you killed. (she starts a reply) Look, Maggie. I don't know what'll happen when I catch up with Hal -- but I've got to know one thing for sure -- that you're making it off this mountain. Alive. 
 Okay. 
 Get on the trail and stay out of sight. (beat) I'll see you on the ground. 
 I give up. What was it? 
 ID says this used to be your pilot. (beat) And we found him seven miles east of the wreck. 
 A hijack. (beat) The plane was hijacked. Son of a bitch -- 
 Oh, give me a break. Your pilot lost it when the flight started going south, and he bailed -- 
 Excuse me -- but there's no parachute there. Check it yourself. 
 Sir -- we found the flight recorder -- it was driven twenty feet deep into a crater. It was demolished, but we salvaged the recording -- 
 (grabbing it away) I've heard a thousand of these, Wright -- whoever was at the stick is going to begin by screeching the Lord's Prayer and wind up screaming "Oh, shit" at ground zero -- 
 (O.S.) (shouting, rushed) -- the money's been stolen -- Travers and the pilot were in on it -- the pilot's dead, but Travers took the cash and made a mid-air transfer to a jet flown by Qualen -- controls won't respond -- (screaming) shiiiiii-- 
 Guess we're both right, Stuart. Thanks for your expertise. (turns to pilot) Well? (jerking a thumb back) You'll be waiting till Groundhog's Day for him to pull his head out of his ass -- let's get it in the air! 
 
 Hasn't gotten any lower in the last year. (coiling for jump) Bitker, you cheap bastard. Would another four feet have killed you? 
 
 A 
 
 Almost there. 
'S 
 
 Oh, no -- you didn't lose another one, did you? 
 What about him? 
 (over his shoulder) Kill him! Now! 
 Tell me -- where would you like the first half dozen shots to go? 
 (hands up) As long as you're taking requests -- how about -- the base of your spine? 
 
 
 (tagging headset radio) Travers. Get down here. Now. 
 
 Have you found the money? 
 (O.S.) No. Walker has. 
 
 
 You would have lived longer, if you weren't such a smartass. 
 You telegraphed this kind of stunt with that joke snowman. Too bad for you we're not all gullible. 
 Good thing for Qualen you are. 
 (pauses, wary) What do you mean? 
 When he comes back, he's going to shoot you and the other guy, grab the money, and take off with Travers. 
 (squeezing trigger again) No sale. Say "night-night" -- 
 (talking fast) He already blew up one of your pals in that crevice. And I've been in that copter. It goes a hell of a lot farther with two people than with four. (beat) Am I wrong? Give him a buzz. 
 You've got my attention. 
 You've also got all the money. And I can show you how to get off the mountain with it. Right now. 
 
 
 (keying headset radio) He's hiding twenty yards in -- be careful. 
 (keying headset radio) He's right behind you! 
 
 (into radio) Something's moving fast down the hill -- is it Tucker? 
 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Answer me! Is it Tucker? 
 
 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Thanks loads. (beat) I couldn't have killed him without you. 
 
 
 How much further? 
 (stops) It's right over there. 
 It's a storage locker for the rangers. Everything you need to get off the mountain is in there -- skiis, food -- I'll show you -- 
 Don't move. 
 Skiis, food -- and maybe guns too, right? (moves backward) Keep walking. Not too close. 
 We'd make better time walking straight ahead. Qualen's not going to be hopping down the bunny trail too much longer. 
 (walking backward) Right. So I'd better have one less problem when he arrives. 
 (knowing this means him) Don't fuck up. You still need me to show you a route off the mountain. 
 You've worn that one out, Walker -- (snaps back bolt) -- I'll find my own way down. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Frank! Down here! 
 
 
 Hop in. I know someone who'd like to see you again before he dies. 
 
 (O.S.) You've come a long way to die. 
 
 If you were smart, you'd have left your friend behind. I would have. There's no shame in staying alive. 
 (aims down) But you're not smart. And now you're going to die from an overdose of heroism. 
 
 (wiping the gash) Stalemate, isn't it? 
 (winded) Not any more. 
 Far more intimidating when it's loaded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 A 
 
 (eyeing Gabe's ruined shirt) Nice outfit. (hands him his parka) I know you never liked the orange, but -- 
 Didn't care for the Smokey The Bear hats, either. That's why I quit. (pulls on parka) You all right? 
 I feel better than you look. I can live with that. 
 Hardly seems worth zipping, huh? (serious now) Frank? 
 It's not over, Gabe. Travers took the helicopter. 
 (into radio) Qualen -- Kristel -- come in -- 
 May I? (dons it, keys it) They can't talk right now, Travers. Kristel's busy making snow angels -- and I'm not sure, but I think Qualen is still falling. (radio silence) Any messages? 
 (O.S.) (over radio) Gabe? 
 (keying it) Maggie -- 
 (into radio) You wanted to make a trade earlier, Walker -- still interested? 
 (O.S.) (pause) I've got the money. Fly to the lake. And if you touch her -- 
 Now what? 
 I have no fucking idea. (holds Qualen's gun) Empty. 
 (smiling) Not for long. 
 (sagging against rail) Why can't anything be easy? 
 Stay over there -- 
 Look -- let me -- 
 -- what, throw snowballs at him? Just -- whatever happens -- get Maggie out of here. 
 (relenting) Count on it. (beat) And Gabe? Thanks for tagging along. 
 (smiles) Thanks for asking. I forgot how much I enjoyed rescue work. 
 (O.S.) (from radio) Come in, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- urgent -- come in -- 
 (over radio) Remember that bet you made? About whether I could find the money for you or not? (holds pack over drop) You won. 
 (into radio) I'll kill her -- 
 (over radio) You do, and the spring thaw's going to be worth thirty million bucks. (pause) No rush. I'm sure you've got lots of time. 
 (into radio) All right. Drop the gun first. 
 (into radio) When she's safe on the ground. 
 (to Maggie) Get out. 
 (shouting) Run! (she doesn't) Run! 
 (into radio) Now come and get it. My arm's getting tired. 
 (shouting) Don't you want to count it? 
 
 
 Don't spend it all in one place, you son of a bitch. 
 
 He's going to run Gabe down -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cheer up. It's a beautiful spot to die. 
 
 I'm no expert -- but what do you make of that "event"? 
 
 
 (mumbling) Forget it. No fucking way. I'm staying right here. I've spent the night on walls before -- some of the best nights of my life have been spent lashed to walls -- 
 Remember -- keep your arms and legs in the vehicle at all times -- 
 
 (too tired to shout) Fuck you -- 
 (winded, coiling the rope) Jesus Christ -- you think you could have put a little less effort into that climb? I mean, what have you done for me -- lately? 
 
