 2 
 INSERT - WATCH 
 What's this, then? 
 CAPTAIN'S VOICE - folks, we're a little over two and a half hours from touchdown in Atlanta, but if you look out your windows on either side of the aircraft, we'll soon be crossing the southern section of the Rocky Mountains, a range which includes more than 50 peaks rising above 14,000 feet. The chain's loftiest point, Mount Elbert, at 14, 433 feet should be coming into view as we pass over central Colorado shortly.. 
 You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, Doctor.. 
 They're ready and waiting.  You'll soon be with old friends. 
 Sorry it couldn't be under happier circumstances. 
 He was quite a man.  Did he know before the end you two had succeeded? 
 ..not in time to save him. 
 You carry them together?  Safely? 
 CAPTAIN'S VOICE You Captain again.  We've experienced a slight but abrupt drop in cabin pressure.. 
 (into radio) Pan, pan, pan, Denver Center.  This is Trans Pac Flight two-two-zero-seven, 747 heavy.  We are not reading you.  We're unable to maintain cabin pressurization. We have initiated a descent to one six thousand. 
 CO-PILOT Captain, I don't..can't.. 
 (in the same tone) You keep calling me Dmitri.  You really shouldn't. 
 - no. 
 - pull the NO2 tank and dump it, it's potential evidence.. 
 (the 'captain' into shot) All done, chief.. 
 (what else) - right - (kidding) - don't go too far ahead of me now - 
 Not possible.. 
 Checkpoint Charlie plus 30, altitude minus two-zero-thousand.  Airspeed one-seven- niner knots.. 
 It's that time.  Go. 
 Terrain, terrain.  Pull up, pull up. 
 Whoaa.. 
 You're welcome. 
 Identity confirmed. 
 Good morning, Mr. Hunt. 
 SWANBECK'S VOICE Your mission, should you choose to accept it, requires you to recover a stolen item, designated Chimera.  Essential to the mission is the recruitment of a civilian -- a Miss Nyah Nordoff-Hall.  She is a highly capable professional thief currently active in Spain. 
 If I let you know where I'm going - 
 Do you know me? 
 No.  Should I? 
 No.  You just looked as if you did. 
 No.  Just as if I'd like to. 
 Oh.  Well.  I think that can be arranged. 
 Not tonight.  Bad timing.  Sorry - 
 There's not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad. 
 Look, it's either you or the rent and I don't mind telling you it's not an easy choice. 
 What if I pay the rent? 
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh? 
 Go find the wealthy lady you came with and next time we meet - I'll pay your rent. (kissing him, sweetly) Now bugger off. 
 (her fondest hopes confirmed) Mmmm. 
 Decisions, decisions. 
 What are you doing here? 
 Think you're the only one who can pick a lock? 
 (not altogether pleased) I see.  You're not just another pretty face.. 
 I take it you prefer tenors. 
 Would you mind if I'm on top? 
 Oh, either way works for me. 
 ETHAN'S VOICE You're never gonna find it there. 
 (she jumps, dropping the torque wrench) Damn it!  Find what? 
 His ex-wife's Bulgari necklace that goes up for auction Tuesday. 
 - right..where is it? 
 Far right. 
 Where's the bloody - 
 (plucking it off his chest, offering it up like a mechanic under the chassis) - torque wrench. 
 - this is very disconerting.. 
 Hey, you put me here.  I just do what I'm told. 
 - right.. 
 (having sat up) I wouldn't do that. 
 Do what? 
 That. 
 Well, Senor de l'Arena the goods news is that the heat sensors were activated.   But Miss Nordoff-Hall, my associate - 
 - did feel that she had rather too long to work on the safe before they triggered the alarm, isn't that right Miss Hall? 
 Oh yes.  Absolutely.  Much too long I should yes. 
 Under the circumstances I think we would recommend re-setting the senors to respond to a lighter load.  How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall? 
 Indeed. 
 Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer.  we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow.  Shall we? 
 The necklace? 
 I'm missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace.  Even after I botched the job, I could've walked out of there with the bloody thing. 
 At least you walked. 
 If you weren't going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with it? 
 Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together. 
 May I say something, no offence?  You look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind? 
 Working under adverse conditions.  Highly adverse conditions. 
 Sounds smashing.  I'm in.  Muchacho, mi carro, por favor!  Now be serious.  You couldn't possibly want me off tonight's performance.. 
 You didn't do that badly. 
 (as she moves to her car) You're apologizing for me?  Quite the gentleman.. 
 (opening the car door) Not really.  I triggered the alarm.. 
 Hey, the Bulgari job last week was flawless.  And I've always been partial to pale yellows. 
 (as he leads on the car) I don't do laundry, or put up with cheeky bastards who set me up on their territory so they can poach on mine. 
 (tentatively) Hola.. 
 Hi.  Would you mind slowing down? 
 Where did you get this number?  I don't even have it! 
 ETHAN' VOICE Would you like it? 
 Pull over and listen to me, will you? Just listen.. 
 Listen to what? 
 I need your help and I thin you can use mine. 
 Your help?  What are you talking about? 
 Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch authority.  I can make them go away. 
 Oh bloody hell.  You're a spy. 
 (to himself) I deserved that. 
 (half to himself) Slow down, slow down. 
 (realizing she's in trouble) Uh-oh. 
 No! 
 Oh..oh.. 
 Don't look down.  Just..look at me. That's it..that's it.. 
 What's you name? 
 Ethan Hunt. 
 Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about? 
 ...more than I thought.. 
 Awfully short notice.. 
 Care to wait a decent interval? 
 Who wants to be decent?.. 
 So what've you got against spooks? 
 When they've got your recruiting technique?  Not a thing. 
 Oh.  Well..this isn't exactly by the book. 
 They've got a book for this? 
 They've got a book for everything. 
 The only other spook I knew was a liar. Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth.  He'd lie about his favorite color.  But then I reckon it's an occupational hazard.  All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies. 
 Not revealing information doesn't necessarily make someone a liar. 
 That's not the point.  In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't. 
 Which is? 
 That they're lying. 
 So where did I got right? 
 You're not a liar.  Or you're an awfully good one.. (then) ..this thing these blokes pinched.. 
 I don't know that they 'pinched' it. Don't even know that they're blokes. 
 Well, then, what I am I doing here?  I assume I'm meant to be some sort of thief-to catch-a-thief.. 
 So do I.  Sort of. 
 Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid? 
 Of what? 
 Ask a question, you get an answer!.. 
 Damn, you're beautiful. 
 That's because I'm on my back. 
 I don't think so. 
 Are you gonna be here a while? 
 Si, senor. 
 I'll pick'em up on my way out, okay? 
 Fetival's a pain in the ass.  Honoring saint by setting'em on fire. (turning to Ethan) Sit down, sit down. 
 Sorry I didn't let you know where I was. 
 Don't be.  Wouldn't be on vacation if you did. 
 Well.  You're sorry and I'm sorry. 
 Why did you phrase it like that? 
 Like what? 
 'You're sorry and I'm sorry.' 
 You gotta be kidding. 
 
 ..I'm fine..and you? 
 I'm fine and you're fine.. 
 Let me ask you something.  You have any idea what the hell he's talking about? 
 An idea, yeah. 
 Like? 
 Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a hurry.  And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier.  So let's get on with it.  He's still in Sydney? 
 Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich is dead.  So is his colleague, Gradski, but that happened earlier.  We had Nekhorvich on a flight from Sydney that crashed in the Rockies.. 
 If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight? 
 You were there. 
 
 When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you.  Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice. He double you, what?  Two, three times? 
 Twice. 
 What did you think of him? 
 You know we had reservations about each other.  Isn't it a little late in the day to be asking me that? 
 Not necessarily. 
 Airline record list Captain Harold Macintosh as the pilot for Flt 2207.  as far as the media and all governmental agencies are concerned, Captain Macintosh died on the flight, but in fact he missed it.  He did, however make the next flight - in cargo, stuffed into a rather small suitcase considering his size. 
 So there's one thing we know Ambrose doesn't. 
 Then you do think it was Ambrose. 
 Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it. 
 Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers? 
 Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground. 
 The question is why?  What was this Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying? 
 Right now only Ambrose knows that. 
 In any case, you've got to recover Chimera and bring it to us. 
 In order to do that, I've got to figure out how he plans to make money with it. 
 - right.  In fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts. 
 'Terrorists?' 
 Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio- weapon business. 
 If that's what you're thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane.  Locating him in time to stop something like that - 
 - is where Miss Hall comes in. 
 (blindsided) Excuse me? 
 Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously.  She walked away and he's wanting her back ever since.  We believe she's our surest and quickest way of location him. 
 (acidly) And then what? 
 Then makes sure she continues to see him. Gets him confide in her and report to you. 
 You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief. 
 Well, then I mislead you.  Or you made the wrong assumption.  Either way we're asking her to resume a prior relationship, not do anything she hasn't already done. 
 She's got no training for this kind of thing. 
 Go to bed with a man and lie to him? She's a woman.  She's got all the training she needs. 
 I don't think I can get her to do it. 
 You mean it'll be difficult. 
 Very. 
 Well it's not mission difficult, Hunt. It's mission impossible.  Difficult should be a walk in the park for you.  If you can think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose, you're welcome to try.  Oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job. 
 Senor, senor!  Your flowers. 
 Yes.  They're very nice.. 
 
 What's the population of Seville any idea? 
 Five, six-hundred thousand. 
 There's nearly 2 million in London. 
 And six billion in the world. 
 That's lot of people out there..how many of them, I wonder, are capable of something like that? 
 Sean Ambrose, for one. 
 Right... 
 (grimly amused) Not that it matter much but..I seem to recall you staying something like, 'I was hoping we could work together.' 
 This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah. 
 But it is what you'd like me to do. so tell me to do it.. 
 Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean's life. 
 I'd like a little more conviction.. 
 So would I.  But it's not mine to give. 
 (archness there) You've either got it or you don't.  Let your conscience be your guide? 
 Something like that. 
 But I don't have a conscience.  I'm a bloody thief. 
 You can be a thief and have a conscience. 
 No.  You can be a thief and have a conscience:  Not me.  Why did you have to tell me about this! (pouring herself a drink) What do I have to do to get away from this guy?  When you're with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I'll be at some out-of- the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does.  And it looks like he's done it again.  You know his definition of a  true paranoid? 
 I don't. 
 Someone in possession of all the facts. (she turns away, pauses) Are you telling me I have to do this? 
 Generally, I don't favor coercing someone. Not when there's a chance my life could end up in their hands. 
 And that's the only reason? 
 Can you think of a better one? 
 Not me.  I was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical. 
 Look, would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this? 
 Much. 
 Then feel better!.. 
 Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-I'm- not-nad' message.  Not after the way we broke up. 
 What wouldn't make him suspicious? 
 Probably that I needed him in some urgent way..destitute - in serious trouble..the kind I couldn't possible sort out myself.. 
 Serious trouble, Nyah, is something I can always arrange.. 
 This little chip sends a coded signal that can be picked up only by our computer. 
 ETHAN'S VOICE When it's in your ankle we can track you within three feet of anywhere in the world. 
 Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but I guarantee he's monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else - he's got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of there. 
 This doesn't seem to be accomplishing much. 
 Well, I mean it's not a total loss.  It is keeping a very capable thief off the street.. 
 Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know.  Maybe he's lost interest. 
 (to Nyah) Your lawyer to see you. 
 What lawyer? 
 Well, here we go. 
 Stop and look for something in you purse..kneel down.. 
 Limo's waiting. 
 - Ambrose will have counter-surveillance second to no one's.  When and if he contacts you, push this button before you actually end up under his roof it'll scramble your transmission to us. 
 When will you be there? 
 Before you are. 
 How can you possibly?  I've got to get right on the plane.  I'm leaving now. 
 You don't trust me. 
 Oh, I do.  But as we know I'm a very poor judge of character. 
 He's got you on Qantas flight 2735.  It's going to be delayed. 
 Yes? 
 You'll be fine.  I'm going to lose you. 
 Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without giving two week notice. 
 Well, forewarned is forearmed.  And while we're at it, be especially sensitive to any sudden change in Ambrose's plans, especially any involving you.. 
 ETHAN'S VOICE Welcome to Australia, mate. 
 Thanks - mate. 
 It's the transponder. 
 Put in the coordinates and let's get a visual.  The visuals aren't coming up. 
 The satellite doesn't work as fast as I do. 
 (a jaundiced eye, to Ethan) It certainly is.  How did we get so lucky? 
 
 
 POV - MOVING 
 
 It's okay.  She scrambled the transmission.  Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position. 
 Can't we speed this up. 
 With what?  This is the only computer that'll do this. 
 It is, Billy. 
 We don't know what we've got because we don't know what he's got, where he's got it or what he's doing in Sydney with it. 
 Not much luggage. 
 I left in a bit of a hurry.  I'm terribly grateful, Sean. 
 How grateful? 
 Well that depends. 
 On what. 
 How hard you had to work to get me out of there..how in the world did you ever find me? 
 (stopping) How I usually find you, Nyah. 
 How do you that. 
 Magic... 
 Ahh.. 
 No flies on her. (checking her on a scanner screen) No bugs either.  She's clean. 
 (drily) All cats are. 
 A myth..just a myth...shouldn't you be checking out their countersurveillance? 
 ..or hard wired.. 
 Ethan, here's Nekhorvich, and here's his boss 
 Not at all.  But how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site? 
 ..then Cambridge..Harvard..entrepreneurial efforts..in efforts..in 1989, acquired Biocyte in hostile takeover.. 
 MCCLOY'S VOICE We at out state-of-the-art solar powered Biocyte building recognized that eternal vigilance is the price of health.. whether it's funding the teaching center at the Royal Prince Edward Hospital, removing aerosol products from the marker or braving the influenza quarantine at Bruny island late last month..at Biocyte your life..is our life's work.. 
 (quietly) ..Biocyte workers at Bruny Island. 
 Your room. 
 (yes) Mmmm. 
 And my room? 
 Thought you could use a little something to wear. 
 No changing room? 
 
 You're not interested in seeing how it looks. 
 Oh, I am.  Later.. 
 Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth? 
 Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules.  In the myth, Bellerophon killed Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world.  I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in Bellerophon. 
 That simple, huh? 
 Why not? 
 Did you say something? 
 
 I said you're beautiful, Nyah. 
 Only because..it's spring..chalk it up (looking him dead in the eye) - to spring fever. 
 Won't do, love.  It's not spring.  It's nearly autumn..You're in Oz.  everything's upside down and backwards here. 
 (more direct) Maybe that's it, then.  Everything's upside down and backwards... 
 Luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month, including photos of the victims. 
 Right.  I guess there aren't many flu epidemics in the middle of summer. 
 Yeah?  I've just rolled up a snowball and tosses it into hell. 
 ETHAN'S VOICE Now we'll see what chance it has. 
 Twenty-four mil.. 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE Thirty-seven million pounds.  That's a promising bid. 
 We'll need this at the track.  Well then. Sorted. 
 (pointedly) Not everything.  Why do you think she's really here? 
 From her point of view or mine? 
 Wasn't exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago..The question is, do you trust her? 
 One considers her timing, of course - getting nicked within a week of the plane going down.  Suggestive, even borderline suspicious, but hardly conclusive. 
 Well, you've thorough about it, at any rate. 
 Tell me, Hugh.  You don't exactly hang on Nyah's every word and gesture, do you? Fairly ratty nail, that. 
 Sean.. 
 You're not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hair-splitting nuance, are you? 
 Sean, please.. 
 Suppose she is some sort of Trojan horse sent in by IMF to spy in us, why should I deny myself the pleasure of a ride or two? Or don't you think I can learn more from her than she can from me? 
 (in pain) I do!.. 
 Now Hugh, you must realize that some of us have the burden of sex to deal with..and my dear chap.  I may or may not know why she thinks she's here, but I'm willing to take the risk, because Hugh, I am gaging for it.. 
 (surprised) You won. 
 (looking at her ticket) I suppose I did. 
 What made you pick that nag?  She'd never won a bloody thing. 
 'Thief in the Night?' 
 Say no more.  I'm off to grab a drink. Still favor Bellinis? 
 A Naturally Vain.. 
 Pardon me? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE You can speak as if I'm right by your side. 
 (picking up binoculars) Where are you? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE At the mounting enclosure, just off the tracks at two o'clock. 
 How's it going?  Everything okay? 
 Just like old times. 
 Just like old times? 
 Just about.. 
 Tell me who you've run into at Ambrose's. 
 (a breath, then:) Near as I can tell, there's at least a half-dozen other blokes about the place. Maybe more.  Hugh Stamp, an old mate of Sean's, is the only one I recognize, bit of a creep and then some.. 
 
 We know him.  He's over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on.. 
 - Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to me.  Then there's the blokes in the annex at the back of the house. 
 Have you met them? 
 Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door. 
 (looking into Champagne Bar) I've no doubt. 
 ETHAN'S POV 
 I'll be damned.  It's McCloy, the Biocyte 
. 
 Nekhorvich's boss? 
 Yep. 
 Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them -- thirty- seven million on the London Times.  What's that about? 
 Bids from possible Chimera buyers -- to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money -- 
 Looks like Ambrose is showing McCloy how to use a digital camera.. 
 Whatever McCloy's looking at, he's not happy about. 
 Ambrose just pulled the memory card out of the digital camera and put it into an envelope, put it in his inner left jacket pocket... 
 Left jacket pocket? 
 Roger that. 
 Confirm.  Left jacket pocket. 
 Left jacket pocket confirmed. 
 Nyah, Ambrose is heading back.  There's an enveloped inside -- 
 -- his left jacket pocket. 
 Affirmative. 
 
 (after a brief pause) Where do I meet you? 
 Betting table twelve off the paddock. Nyah, are you up to this? 
 I'll muddle through. 
 See anything you like? 
 Yeah.  Naturally vain -- but they're about to close the betting table and I haven't a sou.. 
 (laughing) Nyah! 
 Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed. 
 Would you mind terribly? 
 I've no doubt.. 
 (reaching into his pocket for money) Hold on. 
 To win? 
 What else? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE Luther, smallest digital you got.  Ready to transmit.  Betting table twelve. 
 
 
 
 Say again? 
 Whatever you're about in future, watch your step.  Never know who you might run into... 
 Where's the loo then? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE How'd you do?  Don't turn around. 
 I managed. 
 You noticed.  What're you going to do? Spank me? 
 BILLY'S VOICE Stamp's out of the loo. 
 ETHAN (CONT'D) (looking into camera) This is going to take a couple of minutes.. 
 
 There in twenty, Ethan.. 
 BILLY'S VOICE Stamp's a little shaky, but headed your way, mate. 
 Copy that. (to Nyah) Who do you like?  In the race? 
 (nervous, she's heard Billy too) What race are we talking about? 
 I'm booted up.  Go, Ethan. 
 BILLY'S VOICE He's heading down the stairs, now.. 
 I want you out of Ambrose's place. 
 BILLY'S VOICE He's one tier from the bottom. 
 What are you talking about? 
 I want you out of there. 
 Why?  What's happened. What did you see? 
 Nyah, you've done more than enough.  Even the best of snake charmers get bit. 
 Ethan, tell me - 
 BILLY'S VOICE Twenty, nineteen.. 
 I want you out of Australia! (more quickly) ..I don't know how much more plainly I can put it. 
 How do you suggest I go about it? 
 He's touched your heart.  You're overwhelmed.  You need to think it over. You'll meet him somewhere in a month.  If You're not out in 48 hours I'm coming in and getting you out.  Give me the ear piece. 
 
 Get your bet down? 
 Just.. 
 Your nag is making a run for it on the outside! (lowering binoculars) Bloody hell, Nyah! 
 AMBROSE (CONT'D) You picked another winner! 
 Well, that's good, isn't? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE Dr. Segi Gradski, Nekhorvich's colleague and lifelong friend.. 
 Six hours later. 
 Here's a victim from the Bruny Island outbreak. 
 Nekhorvich said 'However we travel, I must arrive at my destination within 20 hours hours of departure.' 
 To Australia.  It's made so many convicts feel at home.  Here's hoping it does the same for you.. 
 Sean, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about... Isn't going to be easy for me to say. 
 (jocular) Then don't say it. 
 I don't know what to do about you, Sean. I'm more than a bit muddled.  I need time. 
 To do what? 
 Sort it all out. 
 And you're going to have time.  There's been a change of plans. 
 A change of plans? 
 Yes.  We won't be able to have dinner tonight.  Something's come up.  I hope you don't mind. 
 Oh, no, not at all.  Maybe just a bit. 
 Ulrich will be about.  He'll look after you. 
 Lovely. 
 I thought you were going to dinner. 
 (pulling up something on the computer) Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory card. 
 Where is it? 
 In the envelope in my pocket.  My right.. jacket..pocket.. 
 Chimera attacking human blood.. 
 What manic invents  disease like that in the first place?  Why would he do it? 
 I don't know, but Nekhorvich was not a manic.  Get me a twenty on Nyah. 
 She must still be on the property. 
 I told her to get outta there. 
 George.  George.  George. 
 Bloody room..just..shut your eyes, shut your eyes. 
 What's happening here?  You're dead! 
 (confused) It was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about Gradski? 
 International, please.  I'd like to make a reservation on the next available flight tonight. 
 Where to? 
 Where is next available flight going? 
 Fine.  I'll take it. 
 Ulrich?..Ulrich!... 
 Easy, easy, easy, shhh! 
 Oh Ethan!.. 
 Are you okay? 
 I am now.  Get me out of here.  Just get me out of here. 
 It's going to be okay. 
 How could I possibly be infected? 
 You have Bellerophon. 
 You took it!  All of it!  And what if I need it? 
 Oh, please!  How was I to know they had to be treated with Bellerophon within twenty hours? 
 You still don't get it, do you?  You want to make an omelet, you break a few eggs - I needed to know just how bad the disease was - in the real world, not the lab.  And you never know til you try.  You thought you were genetically splicing together strains of influenza to create a cure for all influenzas.  But I saw you creating a disease so terrible in Chimera that the cure would be priceless. 
 Well, the thought had occurred to me.  I needed Chimera in order to peddle Bellerophon.  For hero to be appreciated, you need a monster. Now that's not so difficult to understand, is it?  Look, time was a shot of penicillin could knock off every bloody bug in the zoo!  Not anymore!..have you any idea the R&D money it takes to float one little pissy boutique antibiotic that's barely effective against one strain of one bacterium?  If I couldn't makes money killing the microscopic little shits that are out there, you'd help me put one out there I can make on!..there it is.  I've confessed.  I, John C. McCloy, am in business to make money.  Lilly's making billions feeding Prozac to depressed dogs.  Pfizer doesn't even know where to put the money they're making on Viagra, and let me tell you that shit didn't do a thing for me even at twice the recommended dose, Jesus, who do I have to screw to get a a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated and let's go back to work!.. 
 Ethan, you know what frightens me most when I'm with him?..the thought of never seeing you..how are we getting out of here? 
 Nyah, it's very important not do anything to alarm Ambrose.. 
 What?  You told me to get out of here.  I thought you were here to collect me.  I was so relieved. 
 (with growing urgency) No time to explain.  You've done well, and we're so close.  So close.  It's critical that you do whatever Ambrose asks.  Don't worry - it'll be over soon.. That's a promise.. Come on, now off you go! 
 (disgusted by what he's heard) So Ambrose has Bellerophon and McCloy's got Chimera. 
 Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich on the plane, but he didn't get the Chimera virus. 
 Yeah.  Why else would he come back to Australia?  If he had them both, he could sell them anywhere. 
 I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he's sitting on a cure without a disease. 
 You've got the voice print, I'll get us in.. 
 You were right.  Hunt stung McCloy tonight.  He knows.  They'll be going into Biocyte... 
 Good..then we go where he'll be, don't we?  Well done, Hugh.  Well done. 
 
 - where's George.  My regular driver. Where is he? 
 Luther, do you have the building up and running? 
 Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their storage structure.. 
 Nyah still on the property? 
 Okay, here you go - 
 Let's start from the inside out. 
 All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab on the forty-second floor, the heart of the building. 
 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Chimera itself is kept in two places: in production vials in an incubation room and housed in a small airtight chamber - inside three injection guns. 
 BILLY'S VOICE Mate, you kill it in both places, we're laughin' and we go home. 
 Now how to get in there. 
 No garage entrance.  Lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol. 
 If you look at Hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security. 
 Not going in from the ground.  Show me the atrium. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE (unhappily) The atrium?  One of a kind.  Runs down the center of the building.  Provides 24-hour natural light via mirrors and daylight storage cells.  Optimal growing conditions for the virus.  Ends in a glass floor which doubles as part of the lab's ceiling. 
 Hey, atrium roof closes at sundown. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE And if the louvers are open for more than thirty seconds at night, the Civil Emergency alarms are tipped.  Those even I can't stop.  Thirty seconds total to get you in and the cable out. 
 Security? 
 Thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop. 
 I'm not waiting 48 hours.  When we're done at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's, I'm going in and getting her out. 
 No, Hunt will prefer to engage in some sort of acrobatic insanity to enter Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where security is minimal.. 
 I'm not ready! 
 I'm gone.. 
 (frantically working controls) C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon! 
 ETHAN'S DESCENT 
 LUTHER'S VOICE ..nineteen..eighteen..seventeen... 
 LUTHER'S VOICE (low) ..sixteen..fifteen.. 
 Luther, I'm looking at security. 
 (utterly shocked) Oh. Uh. Commencing diversion. (sotto voce, typing swiftly) Alarm in cosmetics. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Gotta get that cable out. 
 GUARD #2'S VOICE (on phone) AY!  what's the matter with you?  Can't you hear the alarm's gone off in cosmetics? 
 (sarcastic) Right.  Then I guess I'll have to trot off to see who's pinching eyeliner, won't I. (exits, grumbling) I'll even check the stairwell on the way. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE (low) Three..two..one.. 
 BILLY'S VOICE Cable's clear. 
 Transponder activated..Reading package and Cable is clean. (exhaling, relieved) He's on his way. 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE He'll make the attempt at the only possible time for both of us, 11 P.M. - when the guards rotate and the buildings air-filtration generators go active, covering the sound of his break-in.. 
 
 Ethan, the generators are about to go active. We'll be out of contact for eleven minutes. 
 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE The frequency of the generators operate to our advantage - cutting radio communication from his team for the next eleven minutes.. 
 Not exactly, mate. 
 Billy.  I think we got a problem.  Nyah's on the wing.  Up early.  Billy, do you copy? 
 ..in the building... 
 BILLY'S VOICE Say again. Sounds like you're saying 'she's in the building.' 
 I am. She is. 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE Ethan does it the hard way to avoid confrontation.  Neutralizing security guards is simply too distasteful to him.. 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE I've never found that a problem... 
 LUTHER'S VOICE The question Is 'how many of 'em?' I can't get thru to Ethan. Not 'til the generators go off. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Not for another eight and a half minutes. 
 
 MCCLOY'S VOICE John C. McCloy.. 
 A 
 It looks like Nyah's headed toward an elevator. 
 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE If Hunt actually manages to squeak thru the atrium he's liable to make it to Chimera before we will.. 
 She's in the elevator heading toward Ethan. 
 BILLY'S VOICE How much longer before you can reach him? 
 Five and a half minutes. (looking at his chronometer) He's breached the hot zone.. 
 AMBROSE'S VOICE On the other hand we know where Hunt will be and he doesn't know we're coming.. 
 (female) Alert.  Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-and- temperature-level-outside-optimal range. 
 
 BILLY'S VOICE How're we doin', then? 
 He should've have killed the virus in the incubation area..Nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab. 
 BILLY'S VOICE What can we do' mate? 
 (staring at them) Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one. 
 Subject is contaminate free.  Zero contaminate factor.  Subject contaminate free. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE He's still got three injection guns in the test lab..They're loaded with doses of Chimera which he'll destroy by firing into a hyper-thermal chamber. 
 - twenty-seven, twenty-six, twenty-five, come on, Ethan we're almost there!  I-I'm off sensitive for this.. 
 
 (realizing what he's in for) Oh - oh - oh - 
 (to Ulrich) Get it. 
 Those were two explosions, your van and your safehouse, in case you didn't hear them both -- I believe that means you've also lost a friend. 
 And you couldn't walk to tell me about it. 
 (yelling) Hold your fire, dammit! 
 (smiling) Fight a bit of a cold.. 
 And you're happy about that? 
 Beats fighting the flu, I'm here to tell you. 
 You know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you.  Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes. 
 I would've thought the hardest part was exercising restraint.  Curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off.  You were in such a hurry to knock off that 747, you never figured out where the virus really was. 
 I knew where it was. 
 Oh.  then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the CDC scientists in Atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a Petri dish, doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the anti-virus and still have it be effective.  You knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for. 
 Stop!  Put a sock in it!  Hit that bloody gun and you'll spray the bloody virus all over the place! 
 There it is, guys, the last of it. 
 Yep.  You've provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer. 
 What was the top bid? 
 Why, you going to make me a better offer? 
 Than thirty-seven million pounds?  Not really. 
 (not amused) Somebody's been slipping you our mail. Come on out here, you bad girl. 
 She doesn't belong here, Sean.  Let her go. 
 She wouldn't  be here if it wasn't for you, Hunt.  from this moment you're responsible for what happens to her, and if you're looking out for her well-being, I suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me.  Ball's in your court, Hunt.  What've you got to say? Nyah's waiting for your answer. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE (breaking through the static) Ethan, Nyah's in the building!  Do you copy? 
 
 (dryly) Thank you. 
 Oh, Hunt, please! One can't hold Nyah responsible for her actions.. 
 In other words, you're calling her a flake. 
 You know women, mate.  Like monkeys, they are.  Won't let go of one branch til they've got a grip on the next...get it, Nyah.  I'll cover you. 
 (not much more than body length from Ethan) This isn't exactly working out the way you thought it would, Ethan.  Sorry. 
 
 (frustrated in the extreme) You..bitch! 
 You're not going to shoot, Sean.  Not this bitch.  She's worth thirty-seven million pounds. 
 (outraged) What did you think you were doing! 
 I wasn't thinking!  Just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that's all. 
 - you who don't have a conscience. 
 (something of surprise to her) I guess I lied..You can't get both of us out of here, can you? 
 No. 
 Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late.  Before I start killing people. 
 No. 
 I'm infected with Chimera.  You know you don't have a choice.  Just do it now. 
 We've got 19 hours and 57 minutes before you start killing anybody.  I'll get Bellerophon into your system by then. Just stay alive.  I'm not gonna lose you. 
 (reading the paintings titles) 'Dreaming of Birds and Flying Fox,' 'Bushfire Dreaming,'  'Wind Dreaming,' -- oddly appropriate - 
 (tight-lipped) Not yet.  We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage. 
 We could lock down passport control and all ports of authority, but that won't stop Ambrose, and beyond him, we don't know who else we're looking for -- all terrorist bank accounts of which we're aware are stable.  No deposits, no withdrawals.  Therefore no suspects. 
 We think we've got our finger on the buyer. 
 Do you?  Even assuming you're able to prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've now got an additional problem.  You destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte.  If Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now, he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so of Miss Hall's blood to market. 
 Yes, I believe that's right. 
 But that leaves another seven or eight pints of Chimera. 
 You mean that leaves Miss Hall. 
 Yes, I believe that's right.  Now my understanding is that 20 hours after exposure, the victim becomes infectious. Highly infectious. 
 SWANBECK (CONT'D) You noted the time of exposure? 
 SWANBECK (CONT'D) - good.  Then if you manage to get hold of Ambrose, and obtain what he's got, you've got - (glancing at the chronometer) - 8 hours 57 minutes and twenty-three seconds to destroy the largest remaining source of Chimera on earth. 
 She sacrificed herself.. 
 Brave girl.  If you can get hold of Bellerophon with the time limit, you may spare her the ultimate sacrifice.  But in either case you've got less than nine hours to kill her or cure her.  After that it's out of our hands and a matter of worldwide material law.  And Hunt.  However you obtain it, we want you to preserve a sample of Chimera.  Bring it back alive. 
 SWANBECK (CONT'D) Something else? 
 Aren't you even curious?  About why she did it? 
 No.  I can't afford to be curious.  And neither can you, Hunt.. 
 Feel like pleading for your life? 
 (with an edge) Not as much as you feel like hearing it. 
 God damn it, Nyah!  Why did you do it?  Why did you save that bastard? 
 If it'll make you feel any better I won't do it again. 
 If it'll make you feel any better, you're going to take a lot of Aussies with you and make me a lot of money. 
 What are you talking about? 
 In just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid Mary of Oz.  G'day. 
 Luther?..Luther. 
 Ethan, I keep telling you there's not a chance of locating Nyah til I access the satellite and there's not a chance of doing that til I get this thing booted up and running!  How much time does she have left? 
 Ninety-seven minutes, twenty-seven seconds. 
 Right. 
 Wrong.  All we've got to worry about is Ambrose.  Nyah will take care of Nyah. 
 Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninety-seven minutes, Nyah will kill herself.  So, first things, first. Swanbeck said there's no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts. 
 ETHAN'S VOICE Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do - 
 BILLY'S VOICE Ethan's out from under the bridge and on the south-east face.. 
 BILLY'S VOICE Ethan, Ambrose and his tem have over the bridge - 
 Copy that. 
 BILLY'S VOICE You all right, mate?  From here it looks like very security.  What's it look like like from there? 
 Risky. 
 Breached the structure at the ten o'clock grating.  In the tunnel moving toward the target. 
 It's a DNA match.  The blood's loaded with Chimera. 
 Well, then.  You've got both the virus and the anti-virus, Chimera and Bellerophen. Which means I've thirty million for you 
 Not exactly.  Wallis? 
 (off Biocyte figures on laptop) More like two-two point two million. 
 In any case we don't want your cash. 
 Then what do you want? 
 Stock, Mr. McCloy.  Stock options, to be a little more precise.. (into the phone) - cut her loose..right in the center of town..the more crowded the better.. (punching off, to McCloy) How quickly can you manufacture more of the antivirus. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Ethan, just picked up an Ambrose call - Nyah's been dropped off.  I think she's alive. 
 Where is she? 
 Somewhere in Sydney. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Ethan?  Do you copy? 
 ETHAN'S VOICE 'Somewhere in Sydney?'  Care to harden the target? 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Can't.  Until I can get the GPS up on our computer..it's still down.. 
 The clock is ticking.. 
 Bellerophen?  No time at all once I've got it. 
 Good.  Biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof. 
 (alarmed) What are you talking about? 
 An outbreak of Chimera. 
 Where? 
 In downtown Sydney for a start. 
 -- now here's the way it's going to work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are.. 
 Ninety-three point four million. 
 Which means, Mr. McCloy, we have to get our hands on four hundred and eighty thousand options.  We'll borrow your thirty million to buy those options.  Your stock's never sold above thirty-one dollars a share.  We'll agree to buy at fifty. 
 Outrageous.  I won't let you take control of my company. 
 Sit down.  You'll be a billionaire.  Better than being broke.  I've got terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies standing in line.  Ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy. 
 Run that bastard down. 
 We're running short on time, Mr. McCloy. We've got to conclude our business. 
 Yes, start the transfer. 
 (to Wallis) Follow it.  Let me know. 
 You broke our deal. 
 You're too trusting.  Raise your hands slowly. 
 (to the accountant) Keep it going. 
 STAMP'S VOICE Sean, this rat's reached the end of the maze. 
 (into walkie-talkie) Is he alive? 
 STAMP'S VOICE More or less. 
 Bring him to me. 
 Not for seven more minutes. 
 Sean.  Transfer complete. 
 (apprehensive) What exactly do you intend to do with him? 
 Ethan?  Ethan?  Do you copy? 
 Well, mate, maybe this is one of those times we shouldn't follow orders. 
 (to Ethan) What have you got to say for yourself. Hunt?  Any last words? 
 Afraid he's got no choice.  I believe I broke his jaw. 
 Hugh, I'm impressed.. 
 (anxiety mounting) What do you intend to do? 
 You needn't watch. 
 - right.  We don't have a lot of time, Hunt.  whatever you've got to say, say it now. 
 (to Billy) The field of fire is too heavy.  Back off and pinpoint their positions. 
 (into walkie-talkie) Hunt's heading for the bridge.  Coming in at twelve o'clock high. 
 Clear that bridge for me. 
 LUTHER' VOICE Roger that. 
 BILLY'S VOICE They're tracking you on the left, Ethan. Prepare for some fire. 
 The target is located. 
 Ethan, the computer's up.  I've got Nyah. She's moved out of the city. 
 Luther, say again. 
 She's on the North Head Bluff - approaching the cliffs.  One klick away. 
 (over increasing static) Copy.  She's only got twenty-eight minutes left.  Track ahead and pick her up. 
 We won't be able to cover you. 
 You're breaking up.  Track ahead and pick her up.  You've got me on GPS.  Bring her to me. 
 Billy, North Head.  Haul ass. 
 Get him. 
 Shut up.  I know what I'm doing. 
 (to Billy) Range is two kay. 
 We're down to seven minutes 23 seconds.. 
 LUTHER'S VOICE Ethan, we've got her.  Tracking to you now. We're reading 5 minutes 19 seconds. 
 (to Billy) Bearing two one zero.  About 3 klicks. (into microphone) Ethan, we're moments away.. 
 Go ahead.  Use it Hunt.  It's not a bad way to go.  A lot better than the way that bitch is going to die. 
 Hunt.  You should have killed me. 
 Sorry, Ethan.  I don't quite know where to begin.  Any suggestions? 
 You'd like me to conduct my own debriefing. 
 Why not?  You've done just about everything else on this operation. 
 I'd thank you -- but I'm not sure that was a compliment. 
 Of course it was.  Anyone whose operations requires the level of disinformation that yours do, is bound to get a little flak here and there.  You try flogging the stories on CNN I've had to come up with about what's been going on around here the last few days.  At any rate, it's been most instructive -- what they'll swallow, or what they'll broadcast with a straight face. (picking up a file) Miss Hall's blood, it appears, has absolutely no elements of the Chimera virus.  Not even antibodies. 
 Yes, I gathered as much. 
 And the only other remaining sample was in the canister you recover from Ambrose. 
 Yes. 
 And that appears to have been destroyed. It also contained the anti-virus, Bellerophon. 
 Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera. 
 But you were under specific instructions to bring back a living sample of the Chimera virus.  I'd be very interested to know how, after you'd managed its recovery intact, it subsequently got destroyed. 
 By fire.  That's the best way, really. 
 So you didn't fail mission, you simply changed it. 
 No, I don't.  But in this case - 
 In this case, it wasn't a bad idea.  In face, it was a pretty damn good idea. Just don't make a habit of it.  And, as for Ms. Hall, in light of her efforts, her criminal records will certainly be expunged.  I'm assuming you approve. 
 I do. 
 Where is she now, by the way?  Do you know? 
 I don't.  No exactly. 
 Well, Hunt, what are your plans? 
 Not sure.  Some sort of vacation.  I'll let you know where I'm going. 
 Oh, you don't have to do that. Wouldn't be a vacation if you did. 
 This incident in the wake of rumors suddenly surfacing about Mr. McCloy and Biocyte's financial difficulties -- including criminal allegations of insider trading, embezzlement, conspiracy to commit fraud, and stock parking -- have, understandably, sent stock prices of the pharmaceutical company plummeting. 
 (worried) So what did he say? 
 Good job.  And thanks. 
 (dryly, looking at Billy) And the check's in the mall. 
 Always nice hearing from you man.  Stay in touch.. 
 (a tad wary) Do you know me? 
 
 No.  Should I? 
 No.  You just looked as if you did. 
 No... 
 Oh.  Well.. 
 
