 A 
 
 CLOSEUP - MAN 
 SUPERSCRIPT:    OCTOBER, 1963. A small country town. Normally quiet at this hour, the street is tonight alive with trick or treaters dressed as witches, goblins and superheroes making their annual door to door rounds. 3   EXT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT                                     3 GLADYS PERRY, 30 going on 45 due to single motherhood and having worked two fulltime minimum wage jobs the past ten years, looks out the window with disgust and pulls the curtains closed. 4   INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT                                     4 Gladys retreats   from the sparsly decorated living room to the predictably drab   linoleum kitchen. At the table, hands on their laps, sit   her children, NAOMI and RUTH, twin girls aged 10, and PHILLIP,   a quiet boy of 8. (CONTINUED) 
 Judy Baumer is going as a twirler. 
 But she's so fat.     I'd go as Cinderella... or Peter Pan. 
 Peter Pan's a boy. Tinker Bell's a girl. Phillip could go as Peter Pan... 'cept you gotta' fly. 
 Phillip could go as a bump on a log. The girls giggle and Phillip frowns. 
 Why can't we go just once? 
 Caus' we jus' can't, ok? Gladys sets milk and butter on the table and stares directly at her son. 
 Our personal beliefs lift us to a higher place. 'Sides, Halloween is nothing but the Devil's work. 
. 
 (in unison) Trick or treat!!! Gladys simply stares at the children before looking to Mr. Hughes. 
 I'm sorry but we don't take no part in Halloween. (CONTINUED) 
 MR. HUGHES Excuse me? Phillip arrives at his mother's apron. He stares at the kids with relish. In the near window, Ruth and Naomi steal a look through the window. 
 We're Jehovah's Witness. Superman locks eyes with Phillip. 
 Hey, Phillip Perry. 
 Hey, Billy Reeves. 
 How'd ya' know it was me? 
 Go eat your supper, Phillip. 
 MR. HUGHES Come on, kids. Let's go to the next house. Sorry for the bother. Gladys closes the door firmly and locks it. 6   EXT. HUNTSVILLE STATE PRISON - NIGHT                        6 A green Impala pulls up to the main entrance and stops. A GUARD steps from his office to greet the driver, LARRY, a pudgy 55-year-old prison employee wearing a loud plaid jacket. 
 Evenin', Larry.   Forget somethin'? 
 Goin' to Austin tomorrow.      Gonna' take some work with me. 
 Work, work, work. When you and me gonna' go out and grab a cold one? 
 Sooner the better. The gate opens and the Impala passes. 
 Damn if the old man ain't right. Jerry smiles, turns and grabs the old man by the shirt. 
 And this goes to the roof? 
 Used to... afore they walled it over. 
 If it don't I'm gonna' rip your tongue out. 
 Get yer' damn hands off me! Jerry laughs and joins Butch, who is already well on his way to bending open a slot in a corrugated metal air shaft hidden behind the wall. 8   EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT                                      8 Superman and Dancing Skeleton, no longer with adult super- vision, fill water balloons at an outdoor water spigot. 
 Make 'em small so you can heave 'em. 9   INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT                                       9 An assembly line at the kitchen sink as the twins wash and Phillip dries the evening dishes. Gladys sits at the kitchen table, reading religious pamphlets and keeping a watchful eye over the process. Several THUDS resound through the house. 
 What in the world? Phillip jumps down off his stool and races into the living room. 
 Bombs away! Dancing Skeleton does his best Warren Spahn and tosses a wet fastball at the door. 
 Here's your trick! At the window, Phillip, his nose pressed to the pane, stares expressionless at the onslaught. He barely flinches as a BALLOON SPLATS only inches away. Gladys arrives and pulls the curtains shut once more. 11A   EXT. PRISON - NIGHT                                         11A Butch kicks the top off a ventilator shaft and rolls onto the roof. Jerry follows as Butch shimmies to the wall. At the edge, Butch and Jerry survey the yard as a searchlight routinely bathes the walls in a circle of light. 11B   THEIR POV - GREEN IMPALA                                    11B parked almost directly below them, next to the Administration office of the prison. 
 You'n'me must be livin' right, Butchie boy! 
 Let's get something straight. I don't like you. As soon as we're on our way, that's it. 
 Who said I liked you? Butch slides down and hangs from the ledge before dropping on the roof of the building below. 12    INT. ADMIN OFFICE - NIGHT                                   12 A SOFT THUD causes a Guard to look up, but only momentarily as he spots Larry departing, files in hand, waving goodbye. 
 Have a safe trip now, Larry. 
 (to Larry) Keep yer' mouth shut. 
 (to Larry) Gawd I'd love to blow yer' head off. 
 'Night, Larry. 15    INT. CAR - FLOORBOARD - NIGHT                                   15 stuffed and hidden half on the floor and half under the mats are Jerry and Butch. 
 'Night, Larry. 16    OMITTED                                                         16 16A   INT. SMALL, WELL-LIT DINER - NIGHT                              16A A weathered finger drops a quarter in a jukebox. 
 (O.S.) B-5.   Haven't heard that one in awhile. The woman, MAE, 45, a dog-tired waitress, punches in the numbers and returns to her post behind the counter. A lonesome HANK WILLIAMS tune pours forth. 
 Not since last night.     How's the pie? RED GARNETT, 60, a grizzled but handsome Texas Ranger, sits at the counter slowly chewing. RED Kinda rubbery.   It was better yesterday. (CONTINUED) 
 Same pie as yesterday. Not much call for rhubarb. Sell one slice a day. In the background we hear a SIREN. Red turns and watches a police patrol car whiz past, lights on. 
 Yer off duty. Tell me, if I stopped bakin' 'em would you still come by every night? Red, preoccupied, takes another rubbery bite. RED I don't know. 
 Naw, Red Garnett, you don't come in here for the coffee and pie. You come in here for the company. To see me. Another patrol car races past.   Red's eyes follow it. 
 Now that I've said that, I'll go   one better. What say I cook you dinner at my   place sometime? Steaks, baked taters,    cold beer, the works. Well?... I'm askin'    you out. She turns to face Red but he's gone. A coupla dollars lie next to the half-eaten pie. All she can do is sigh. 
 Long time, no see. What are you doin' here, Chief? RED Couldn't sleep.   Whattaya got? (CONTINUED) 
 Guy holdin' his family hostage. She kicked him out, served him divorce papers, he came back drunk and pulled a .38. Fired two shots but we don't think anybody's hit. Actually you might know the guy from your sheriff days. Hayden Webb. Been on suspension for awhile. Ring any bells? RED Yeah.   Lemme talk to him. 
 No can do.   Police jurisdiction. Red tastes the coffee -- cold. He spits it out, pours the contents of the cup on the ground and walks toward the front yard. Sergeant follows. RED And how are you guys doin'? 
 We got specific rules to follow in these kinda situations, Red. (gives in) He won't talk. Jus' keeps yellin', crying and waving his gun around. Red moves forward into the yard. 
 At least use the megaphone, you stubborn jackass! But Red ignores and arrives at the front door.   He knocks. RED Hayden, this is Red Garnett. We worked together a few years back. Mind if I come in? The YELLING inside STOPS and the door opens a crack.   HAYDEN, 35, distraught, peers out. 
 'Evenin', Chief. RED Leave it to the P.D. They got a three- ring circus out there and not one cup of hot coffee. You mind? Hayden mulls it over, then opens the door. 
 Julie, put a pot of coffee on. She slowly gets up and moves to the kitchen, still weeping. RED Appreciate it.   Jus' what is it you want, Hayden? 
 I dunno... I want my job.    I want my family. RED What'd they suspend you for? 
 I answer a call in South Austin. Girl gettin' raped, that's the word. I bust in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the shit outta her with a tire iron. 'Help me, help me,' she says. I take the guy down. He bites me. I break his arm. Case closed, right? No. She was his wife and they both sue me and the department. The guy's about to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he can't pump gas. They have chump change in the bank but they got the best lawyer in town. Three months I'm goin' crazy. No pay. Then my wife leaves me and I get served divorce papers by John Reese -- a sheriff's man. You know how embarrassin' that is? What's happenin', Chief? I mean, everybody's got a fuckin' lawyer! Julie emerges from the kitchen and retakes her seat. RED You love her?    Love the kids? 
 Yeah. 
 Then why do you hit me! Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it at her. Red calms the situation... (CONTINUED) 
 I swear to God I think I do. RED Naw, Hayden, I don't     think so. I think you love her. You know      what else I think? That you'd like a way out     of this whole mess... That's where I come     in. 16E   EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                                16E Sergeant and other cops stand around and watch the house. 
 Well, I'll be damned. 
 The front door opens and Julie emerges with her two kids. She takes a few cautious steps, then runs to the police. 16F   INT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                                16F Red sits on the coffee table, unloading Hayden's gun.       He opens the cylinder and drops the shells to the floor. A calmer Hayden exits the kitchen with Red's coffee.       Red accepts it, takes a sip. RED Hits the spot. Hayden starts to sob a bit.      Red hands over a handkerchief which Hayden accepts. 
 No cuffs, huh, Chief? RED Okay.   You ready? Hayden nods, they stand. Red picks up his hat, sticks it on his head, opens the door and holds it for... Hayden, transfixed by the multitude of lights outside.      He gulps. RED We'll walk out together, okay? Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol. (CONTINUED) 
 Any good officer has a back-up. Red holds his palms out and takes a step toward Hayden. RED Lemme have it, Hayden. Hayden points the gun at Red, freezing him. 
 Was I a good officer, Chief? Red nods. 
 Was I a good deputy? The kinda man you could depend on to do what's right? RED Yeah. Hayden smiles. 
 Thank you. Then he turns the GUN on himself, swallows the barrel and BLOWS his brains out. DISSOLVE TO: 16G   EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT (LATER)                                16G Hayden's dead, covered body is carried out the door.    Julie screams and sobs, still holding her crying children. 
 Got a call, Chief Garnett.   They're lookin' for ya downtown. Red slowly walks away.   The little boy's eyes follow him. 17    INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - NIGHT                                  17 It's a small town version of a 7-11, kept open by an owner anxious to cash in on the later night munchies of beer drinkers. Good idea. Bad luck. (CONTINUED) 
 Hey, wait up! Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a quivering hand. 18   INT. D.P.S. - TEXAS RANGERS HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT               18 It's very late, after midnight, and only a handful of people, half of whom are cleanup crews, shuffle through the offices. A light from an office at the end of the hall catches our eye. A MUFFLED  VOICE over the phone... RED (V.O.) I understan' your concern, Johnny. 19   INT. RED'S OFFICE - NIGHT                                      19 Red, behind a huge    ranchstyle desk covered with files and paper, sips coffee    with one hand, works a buffalo nickel through magician's    paces with the other and balances the phone receiver in    the crook of his neck. RED (on phone) Cons are creatures o' habit. Like old coyotes, they'll crawl back into familiar holes. Uh huh... Yeah... Sure yer' right. Listen you go back to bed and I'll call you in the A.M. with an update. I'll have the files by then. Say hullo to the Mrs.. Red sighs, puts the PHONE back in the hook and stares at it until it RINGS again. 20   INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT (JUST BEFORE DAWN)                    20 The CLANGING wind up alarm CLOCK reads 5:30 and Gladys opens her eyes and gently quiets it with a touch. She groans and rises, not happy but used to the daily ritual required of her. 
 There's a Buick. 
 Don't want a Buick. Want a Ford. 
 Ford's leak oil.     A car's a car. Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop. 
 Then take the Buick. 
 Soon as we cross state line I'll do just that. (beat) I'm tired of riding around. I'll check down the block... for a Ford! Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks away. Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up and sees... 
 as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back, turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner. BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the door without a sound. 24   INT. PERRY KITCHEN - NIGHT                               24 Gladys steps into a slip and snaps her bra while cracking eggs into a skillet. By rote she salts, stirs, and pops bread into the toaster. 
 Thank you, Phillip. Go wake up your sisters. Phillip dutifully steps down and returns to the living room. Gladys works to adjust her slip, then grabs plates and silverware and takes them to the table. 
 I take mine fried. 26    INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                         26 Gladys gasps at Jerry's face pressed against the screen, but controls herself when he brandishes the pistol. He motions for her to open the back door. She does. He slides into the room and sits down at the table. 27    EXT. ON STREET - NIGHT                                       27 A Ford sits in a driveway. In the far b.g. a back porch light glares. Butch ENTERS FRAME, looks at the light, turns to the Ford and starts to jimmie the lock. No luck. He rises and looks to the light. 28    INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                         28 Jerry stuffs a piece of toast in his mouth, grins at Gladys and makes a motion to the counter. 
 A lil' on the bland side.   Gimme' that ketchup. She picks up a bottle of Heinz and inches toward him. When she gets close, he grabs her and forces her onto his lap. He holds the gun to her throat and whispers in her ear. 
 Don't got a man around here, do ya'? 29A   INT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                29A MR. CUMMINGS, 70, puts on his glasses and peers through the window. 
 Feed me, sweet thing. Her shaking hands raise a forkful of eggs to his lips.    He licks them once then gobbles with gusto. Phillip enters the room and stops dead in his tracks. 
 Well lookie here, you do got a man! Jerry smiles at Phillip while he kisses and licks Glady's neck. At once, Phillip darts across the room at Jerry, who backhands the boy with his gunhand, sending Phillip sprawling. Butch blasts through the door in an instant. With a swift kick to the head, Jerry is knocked senseless onto the floor against the cabinets. The gun slides across the floor and lands at Phillip's feet. 
 (holding his ear) I'm bleedin'! You happy? Butch gives Jerry an icy stare and kneels down to eye level with Phillip. Butch looks at the gun and then at Phillip. 
 What's your name, boy? 
 (scared shitless) Ph...   Phillip... 
 Well, okay Phillip. Reach down and pick up that pistola. 
 Give it to me. 
 (to Jerry) Shut yer' mouth. (to Phillip) Pick it up and bring it over here. (CONTINUED) 
 Now say 'stick 'em up.' 
 (hesitant) Stick 'em up... 
 MR. CUMMINGS Standing outside the screen door, gun leveled. Before the old man can utter a syllable, Butch grabs Phillip and points the gun straight at Cummings. Jerry jumps up and grabs Gladys. 
 Put the gun down, old timer. You couldn't hit me anyway. Probably shoot the boy. The PHONE RINGS. 
 Leave it be. The twins wiping sleep from their eyes, wander into the room. 
 Mama?... 
 It's all right, honey. PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do with the gun he's pointing at Butch. 
 You deaf?!!! 
 Set it on the ground. Cummings reluctantly obeys. 
 We gotta' get the hell outta'here! (CONTINUED) 
 Shut up! In one fluid move he rips the phone from the wall.    The silence is deafening. 
 (re: Gladys) I vote we bring her with us. 
 No. 
 How we gonna' get outta' here without a hostage, tell me that? The whole goddam neighborhood's awake. 
 We'll take the boy. Silence.   Gladys can't believe her ears.   Then... 
 Nooooo!!! Jerry tosses Gladys aside. She collapses onto the floor. The TWINS instantly start to CRY. Phillip winds up and hits Butch as hard as he can. Butch picks him up, directs Cummings into the kitchen with the gun and nods for Jerry to lead. 
 You'll get him back. I swear it. 
 (O.S.) Phillip!!!!... Butch flips Jerry the gun, tosses Phillip into the passenger seat, leaps over the hood and into the driver's seat. The CAR STARTS and SQUEALS away. Neighbors, aroused by the noise, exit their homes clad in robes, nighties and curlers. 
 Ain't you folks ever heard of sleepin' in?!! 33   EXT. PERRY YARD - DAWN                                          33 Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN, levels it and FIRES a BLAST... A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust. 
 Nice shootin', Fred. 34   INT. RED'S OFFICE - DAY                                         34 Garnett, still in the same clothes, rests the phone receiver in his ear while he shuffles through the files before him. Red's deputy and boy friday, TOM ADLER, 40, lank, thinning hair, with a face as soft as Red's is hard, warms up Red's coffee with a jolt from the Chief's favorite plaid Thermos. RED (into phone) Yes, Johnny, I do understand that... The jabbering on the other end of the phone line continues as Red's eyes squint to read the files. 
 INSERT - FILES The first is Jerry's, complete with a grinning mug shot in the upper right hand corner. There are several pages in the file, but Red's fingers quickly peruse the top rap sheet before turning to... INSERT - SECOND FILE It's Butch's and again Red's fingers start to move down the page then they stop and move to the photo of Butch at the top of the page. 
 RED'S FACE A hint of recognition.    The jabbering continues... CLOSEUP - PHOTO OF BUTCH A little younger than now.    A younger con with the grim facade of a man facing hard time. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Red?     Red, you there? 
 (a whisper) Red?.... RED (to Adler) Huh? 
 (a whisper) He's talkin' to ya'. 
 (V.O.) Have you heard a word I've said?! Red comes to... RED (into phone) Yeah, Johnny. Jus' thinkin' is all.... 
 (another whisper) Press has been waiting almost an hour, Red. Red nods then notices someone at the door and motions her in... SALLY GERBER, 28, cute in a plain, no nonsense way, with giant curls accenting her round face in step with the latest hair fashions, enters the room, closes the door behind her. She's nervous as hell but trying to hide it. Red motions her to have a seat while he finishes his call. RED (into phone) Yeah.... Clear as a bell... Mi' sabe. Red hangs up the phone, takes a draw on the coffee mug and looks again at the file. He seems lost in time. 
 What'd he say? RED (distracted) Who? (CONTINUED) 
 The Guvner', Red. Red closes the file. RED Reminded me it's an election year. Red turns his attention to Sally. RED You drink before noon? SALLY (confused) Uh... no. RED Good.     Last one I had was on a liquid diet. SALLY Last what? RED Secretary. 
 (remembering) Penny Munroe. SALLY I believe you have me confused. I'm here from Huntsville. Assigned by Governor Connally. Red is confused.     He turns a blank expression to Adler. 
 Rings a bell, Red. Believ' they sent us something about her this mornin'... RED Who sent?... 
 ... Guvner', Red. Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands it to Red. (CONTINUED) 
 ... Here it is. SALLY (introducing) Uh, I'm Sally Gerber. Criminologist with the State Prison System. Sally offers her hand. Red, perusing the telex, ignores but Adler shakes somewhat reluctantly, not sure if he's supposed to like her or not. 
 Tom Adler.   Deputy. State Police... System. 
 (into phone) On our way, Marge. 
 Gettin' antsy, Red. You scheduled it. Adler hangs up, grabs Red's tie and coat from a brass rung on the wall and hands them over. Red puts down the telex, stares at Sally and reluctantly attempts to make himself presentable. SALLY The idea is that an understanding of the particular behavioral case histories should, in parole situations, help the subject to avoid habitual traps and, in penal escape situations could, conversely, identify those self-same traps as an aide to apprehension. (CONTINUED) 
 #1 Is the prison employee with them? RED Was when they left the prison. Sally and Adler enter the room and stand beside the lectern observing. Red notices them. (CONTINUED) 
 #2 What's the rap sheet on these guys like? RED Long as Christmas eve to a kid. Haynes was doin' 40 for armed robbery and Pugh was ridin' 20 hisself for manslaughter and assorted parole vios. 
 #3 Is there any indication of... RED ... Lemme' finish, Billy. This mornin' another hostage was taken... from a private home in Madisonville. A boy, age 8. Grabbed him out of bed. 
 #1 Any sex offenses on Haynes or Pugh? RED Yer' askin' if they're preverts.   Well, one is. 
 #4 You got inter-agency cooperation on this? RED Texas Rangers as the criminal investigation arm of the D.P.S. share responsibility with the F.B.I. due to the kid being taken. But I doubt they're out of bed yet. A few chuckles. 
 #3 Red, how do you plan to apprehend the escapees? RED Officially I can only say we have a full manhunt team on their trail and we'll proceed with due haste. 
 #3 And unofficially? Red hesitates a moment, something's bothering him, then blurts out... RED Unoffically? I'm gonna' hunt 'em like the rabid dogs they are. (CONTINUED) 
 Yes I do. Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting... 
 You doin' anything tonight? Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the room. 
 I'm serious! 36   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                         36 Butch is driving with Phillip in the front seat beside him, still in his underwear. Jerry, in the backseat, leers at Butch, aims out the window and FIRES ONCE. 
 We got a handful of caps and yer' shootin' water tanks. He's a smart guy, huh, Phillip? Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles, almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it. The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car speeds off down the highway. 
 All right, that's it, boys.   Chief's got work to do. Red and Adler move through the parking lot to SAUNDERS, 50, an aide to the Governor. Saunder's seconds are a PHOTOGRAPHER, young and energetic, and SUTTLE, 35, dark-haired, with a cowlick. Saunders shakes Red's hand and they turn to gaze upon... '60-STYLE AIRSTREAM MOBILE HOME parked in the middle of the lot hitched to the back of a new Chevy truck. The Airstream is painted in state colors and sports banners, decals and logos. 
 So whattaya' think? Saunders motions for the Photographer to come closer and take pictures. He moves in next to Red and poses as the camera clicks. 
 We are very proud of this baby. Governor Connally special ordered it so state officials and dignitaries can ride in the parade in Dallas. You know President Kennedy's comin'? (CONTINUED) 
 Latest technology, oversized engine, complete kitchen and sleeping quarters, gun racks, frig, stove, the works. Even got a hot line phone straight to the Governor's office. Red stops circling and nods to Adler, who scurries away. RED Fine piece of machinery. 
 What's more, as soon as it gets back from Dallas it will be at your requisitioned disposal. Perfect for lots of situations -- a headquarters on wheels. Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips it off. RED We'll take it. 
 Uh, Chief?.... Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc. and stack them in a pile outside the motor home. The Photographer continues to snap photos. 
 (to Red) Whattaya' doin', Red?! (to Photographer) Stop takin' pictures! Red does away with the parade banner.   Saunders follows behind and tries to reinstate the decal. 
 It's jus' not possible, Red. The Governor's gonna' ride it in a campaign parade tomorrow. RED Guvner' hisself told me this manhunt was top priority. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Saunders) S'cuse me. (to Red) This here's Bobby Lee. He's a specialist with the Feds. They want him to tag along. Red stares hard at Bobby Lee, then nods.   Bobby Lee steps into the Airstream. 
 Please, Red, ya' gotta' believe me... Red spots Suttle, 35, bright-eyed, with a cowlick, sitting at the wheel of the Chevy truck. RED Who are you? 
 Dick Suttle, the driver. RED Not anymore.   Bradley. BRADLEY, 35, glasses, moves to the truck and gets in. Suttle shrugs and steps out. Saunders stops Suttle and turns to Red. 
 This man stays with the vehicle wherever it goes, Red! RED (to Suttle) You know how to operate the gadgets? 
 Yessir. RED (to Suttle) Grab a seat. Suttle sets himself in the passenger seat of the truck. Sally emerges from the building, ticked off, carrying an armload of file boxes, and makes a beeline for Red. Saunders gently touches Red's shoulders; a final plea. (CONTINUED) 
 Please Red, I'm beggin'. I mean, what am I suppose to tell the Governor? Sally arrives but before she can spit out a word... RED Tell John that Miss Gerber here checked me out on it. Red whistles and the ENGINE REVS. Red closes the door as the motor home pulls away. Saunders runs beside the passenger side window and yells in to Suttle, who stares out the window. 
 Not a scratch, you hear me, Suttle? Not a scratch! Saunders stops, breathing hard, next to Sally.   She's pissed and overloaded with files. 
 about 20 yards down the way, comes to a stop.    A second later the door opens and the steps pop out. Sally walks toward the bus but when she arrives at the door... ... LAUGHTER filters out of the Airstream.   The Airstream moves another 20 feet then stops. Sally waits a full five seconds, then she blows the hair out of her eyes and, against her better judgment, moves cautiously forward, the file boxes getting heavier by the minute. Again, when she gets close... 
 Why the hell we stoppin'? 
 You said you had a cousin near here. 
 So? 
 So give him a call. See if we can shack there til' things cool down. Jerry thinks it over, leans forward and, in one quick swipe, grabs the keys from the ignition. Then he laughs and crawls out on his way to the phone booth. (CONTINUED) 
 Why'd he take the keys? 
 So I won't leave him. 
 (a tad hopeful) Would you leave him? 
 Oh yeah. In the b.g. Jerry rips the 20 page phone book in half and returns to the car, half pleased with himself. He tosses the keys to Butch, who starts the car and drives off. 
 Musta' moved. Prolly' couldn't have heard 'em anyway. Goddam ear's still bleedin'. You ever try that shit again... 
 What? 
 What? 
 You were in the middle of threatenin' me. 
 (from the movies) Ain't a threat. It's a fact. Butch reaches over, takes Phillip's hand and places it on the steering wheel. 
 Here kid, take the wheel. Phillip, scared at the prospect, nevertheless does his best to see over the dash and keep the wheel straight. Butch turns back over the seat to confront Jerry. 
 In two seconds I'm gonna' break your nose. That's a threat... (CONTINUED) 
 ... And that's a fact. Instead of expressing outrage, Jerry slinks back down in the seat wearing a look of pure hatred. 
 I'm gonna' kill you for that. 
 And that's a threat. Beginnin' to understand the difference? Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and turns into... 45   EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY                                       45 The Impala brakes to a dusty stop near the front of the store, which is bordered by a giant hay field. 46   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                      46 
 Okay, Phillip, listen up. I'm gonna' run in here and get some smokes. 
 Get beer. 
 Here, hold it like this.... And point it right between his eyes. 
 What the hell?... 
 (to Phillip) If he so much as moves you pull the trigger ... right here... Put your finger on it. Jerry snickers and then laughs maniacally. Butch reaches over and cocks the pistol. Jerry's guffaws stop on a dime. 
 Yer' a fuckin' crazy man. (CONTINUED) 
 And that's a fact. I believe yer gettin' the hang of this. Butch steps out of the car and heads for the market. 47   INT. STORE - DAY                                             47 Butch enters.   A short fat man with a fishing cap is sweeping up. 
 How-do.    Where's yer' sodees? 
 Hot in the first aisle.       Cold in the back, in the cooler. 48   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                      48 Phillip's slightly shaking hands hold the pistol pointed directly at Jerry's head. 
 You ever shot a gun before, boy? No answer. Phillip steals a glance at the store, anxious for Butch to return. 
 Powww!!!...    It'll knock you on your ass. 
 Be quiet, mister. 
 Naw. You ain't never shot no gun before. Livin' in a house with three split tails... no Daddy around. You'll prolly' grow up queer, you know that? A bead of sweat rolls down Phillip's cheek. 
 Now I'm gonna' lean up here real slow, okay? So we can talk. Jerry raises his hands, palms up and slowly leans forward in the back seat. Phillip's hand quivers but he doesn't pull the trigger. 
 There we go. Now we can have a 'man to man.' You are a man, ain't ya'? 
 Those are cute little underwears you got there, boy. Say does your mama sew yer' name in 'em, initials or anything? Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly pulls it open. 
 Whatcha' got in there? Jerry sneaks a peek. 
 Kinda' puny, ain't it? Phillip, diverted, looks down.    In a flash Jerry grabs the gun. 
 The hand is quicker than the eye. Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it -- empty slots. 
 (re: Butch) That sonofabitch. Hell's bells, no shells. 51   INT. STORE - DAY                                               51 The Old Man puts down his broom and ambles to the register. 
 This be all for ya'? 
 This and a carton of Chesterfields. (beat) Are those .38 shells? Gimme a box. The Old Man puts the cigs and shells on the counter and starts to tally the bill on a notepad. (CONTINUED) 
 With deposit comes to four dollars eighty. Butch reaches in his pocket and extracts the wad stolen from the convenience store. The Old Man takes note. Butch selects a five and places it on the counter. 
 Land's sake.   What line of work you in? The Old Man bags the goods, but Butch takes the shells and puts them in his coat pocket. 
 Used cars. Buy 'em, fix 'em up. Sold a Cadillac down in Madisonville this mornin'. 
 Don't say. 52   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                            52 Jerry puts his gun hand around Phillip's neck and pulls the sobbing boy closer. Jerry rests his face on Phillip's neck. 
 Come over a little closer. As Jerry    groans, Phillip seizes the moment and bites Jerry hard on    the ear. Jerry screams and drops the gun, which Phillip    picks up and carries with him as he scurries out of the car    and into the hay field. Jerry, in pain, now with both ears bleeding, crawls out of the back seat and gives chase. 
 no longer stumbling, now grinning maniacally, gives chase, whistling as if calling for a lost puppy. 
 I'm gonna' find you boy.    You best come here. 
 gun in hand, stumbles, falls, gets up, keeps running. He falls again and crawls to a stop. He wipes his tears and balls up on the ground trying to make himself invisible. 
 The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field. 55   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                              55 Jerry, crouching, moves through the field -- eyes peeled for any sign of Phillip. Phillip lies still. He hears the hay rustling near him and he looks up, squares his body and points the revolver at... 
 a little frustrated now, but still moving forward. 
 (a whisper) Hey boy. Hey boy. You better hope I don't find ya'. He spots something -- a dash of color -- and begins to crawl faster. He parts a thick batch of hay and looks up into the gun barrel and eyes of ... 
 
 Whatcha' gonna' do? Hit me with it? Butch reaches into the coat pocket with his free hand and shows a shell or two. Jerry's grin drops. 
 (pleading) Me'n you are friends!!!! 
 Thick as theives. 
 hears a GUNSHOT and runs for his life back toward the store. 
 (to Old Man) You got a phone? 
 Naw. 
 Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone. The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip. 
 Well... Get in. 57   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                            57 The truck and Airstream barrel down the highway. 58   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                          58 The place is a functioning mobile headquarters now. Adler on the short wave and tacking up a map, Bobby Lee still in his corner, Red and Sally sitting across from one another at the "kitchen table". 
 Got a spot on 'em. A store right outside of Benhur. About 20 miles from here. Adler sets down the mike, sticks a tack on the map and stands back. RED All right. Push the roadblock on 288 north by 50 miles. Kaiser calls in the instructions. (NOTE:   Kaiser's radio transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time we're in the Airstream. In addition, his  and Adler's direc- tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all scripted.) (CONTINUED) 
 Ya' figger' they're that far along? RED Hell, I dunno'and neither do they. They're jus' happy to be out. It's a high speed Sunday drive to them. 
 Sunday drive. I like that. Never heard you use that one before, Red. Sally is watching Red and listening to all of this with a troubled look on her face. Red notices... 
 What makes you so sure they won't stay together? Sally hesitates.    Red notices... RED You got somethin' to say, spit it out. SALLY Their situation is one of accommodation. They won't be together long. Silence.   Sally continues. SALLY Haynes and Pugh are opposites. Haynes is a criminal's criminal -- armed robbery, mano y mano confrontation. Pugh, on the other hand, has a rap sheet littered with molestation and petty crime. They'll split sheets soon. 
 (still on attack) What about the hostages? They gonna' flip a coin to see who gets to keep who? Red rises and walks to the sink.      He rinses a spoon. (CONTINUED) 
 Thankyew. (beat) Are you gonna' shoot me? 
 No.    Me'n you are friends. (CONTINUED) 
 If I was choosin' a runnin' buddy, I'd take you over him any day of the week. 61   EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY                                          61 The RV slides to a stop in the gravel parking lot which is full of state and local police. Red exits first, followed by the others. A LOCAL SHERIFF walks up to greet. RED We got a positive I.D.? 
 Yessir, with only the boy as hostage. But not five minutes ago we found something else. 62   EXT. HAY FIELD - DAY                                            62 PAN FROM a fingertip UP an arm and TO the face of Jerry Pugh. A clean bullethole has left him with a third eye, a bloody back and an entourage of late summer flies. We hear the CLICK of a photographer's CAMERA. BOOM UP TO Red, Local Sheriff and other bystanders. RED Least now we know who's in charge. 63   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                         63 Butch notices that Phillip is pretty somber as he tugs on another RC. 
 Whattaya' thinkin' about? 
 Nuthin'. 
 If I guess you tell me? Phillip nods. 
 You thinkin' about yer mama? Phillip sits still.    That was it. Butch brings the car to a stop.    He points to the horizon. Desolate. (CONTINUED) 
 I hear ya', Phillip, but look around. I can't very well leave you here, can I? 64   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                            64 The Impala rests in the fork of a dirt road. 65   INT. IMPALA - DAY                                          65 
 Lemme' ask you somethin'.    You right or left handed? Phillip meekly holds up his right hand.    The car races forward. 
 Then that's the way we'll go. You ever ridden in a time machine before? Phillip shakes his head. 
 Sure you have.    Whattaya' think this is? 
 A car. 
 Yer' lookin' at this thing bassackwards. This is a 20th Century time machine. I'm the captain and you're the navigator. Butch points forward through the dash. 
 Out there... that's the future. Butch taps on the rearview mirror. 
 Back there... that's the past. If life's moving too slow and you wanna' project yerself into the future you step here on the gas. See? He does so and the Impala surges forward. 
 And if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in, well hell, just step on the brake here and you can slow it down. (CONTINUED) 
 This is the present, Phillip.   Enjoy it while it lasts. Then he laughs uproariously and steps on the gas. 66   EXT. ROAD - DAY                                               66 The Impala spins out, kicking dirt in all directions. 
 (V.O.) Yessir. Time travelin' through Texas! We got to find us a Ford. My daddy always drove Fords, you know that? 67   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                          67 The Airstream sits in the parking lot of the store.   Bradley and Suttle sit up front in the truck. INT. TRUCK - DAY Bradley turns the knob on an intercom speaker system next to the radio. 
 It's an intercom speaker system. You can get and give instructions to and from the rear of the vehicle. 
 How's it work? 
 You push the power button but if you've got the volume turned up... Bradley pushes the power button. The SYSTEM SQUAWKS LOUDLY and then CREAKS TINNILY. Speakers blown. 
 ... you'll blow the speakers.   Sheeeit... INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY Red cringes, his ears still ringing from the squawk, and turns to stare at the front of the RV. (CONTINUED) 
 (quiet; to Suttle) This thing's prolly' got a warranty. You oughta' make a list of all the things that are wrong. INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY Red shakes his head and stands in front of the map, placing thumbtacks at crossroads indicated by the circle mark. 
 That oughta' put his pecker in a sling, huh, Red? (remembers Sally) Sorry, ma'am. SALLY (ignoring Adler) Shouldn't these be roadblocked as well? She points to several other unmarked roads. RED Sooner or later he'll get on a main road. We don't got the manpower to roadblock every farm to market. 
 In a perfect world, Miss Gerber, we'd lock arms and thrash the bush til' he turned up... SALLY In a perfect world things like this wouldn't happen in the first place. Adler hears something on his headset, turns to Red. 
 Locals are heading out.   Wanna' follow? RED Let's sit tight.    He'll turn up. 68   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                          68 The Impala travels slowly along the road until it edges to a stop by the entrance to a small farmhouse with a truck and car parked in a long dirt driveway. A farmer on a combine works a small field. 
 Ok, Phillip, we're gonna do some  car shoppin'. You ever play cowboys   n' Injuns? See that Ford sedan? Now I want   you to sneak on over there like an Injun  and take a peek and see if the keys is in  it. Phillip hesitates. 
 Don't have to if you don't wanna... but I'd appreciate it... You bein' the new navigator and all. Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out. 
 Hey, Phillip, check for a radio, too. 70   EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY                                            70 Phillip, still in his skivvies, legs cut up and muddied from his escape from Jerry, sneaks up to the car and quietly peers into the open window. The keys dangle when his small hand touches them. Phillip closes the door, looks around and then runs pell-mell to the passenger window of the Impala. 
 It's got keys and a radio.   I checked. 
 Good man. 
 Can we stop at a fillin' station. 
 What for? 
 Number one. 
 This here's nature, Phillip.   Pee in the ditch. Phillip scrambles to the ditch to relieve himself while Butch steps out of the Impala, tosses the keys into the field and walks toward the Ford. (CONTINUED) 
 Start, you sonofabitch! The Farmer runs faster, comes closer... 
 Hey, that's my car! Hey!!! Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to relieve himself. 
 Get in the car, Phillip! The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them madder than a wet hen. Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through him. 
 Phillip!   Get in the car! Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it closes. 71   INT. FORD - DAY                                               71 The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his best to fend off flailing hands and fingers. Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol. Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's hand as hard as he can. (CONTINUED) 
 Aaaaaayyyyyy!!!! The Farmer releases his grip on the door and falls backward, summersaulting into the adjacent ditch. Butch places the gun back under the seat. 
 Goddam, boy, how many RC's did you drink anyway? 
 Four. 
 One thing's for sure. You got one helluva set of chompers. 72   INT. TRUCK - DAY                                               72 Sitting still. Bradley tries to light a cigarette with the lighter but gets no heat. 
 (to Suttle) Lighter don't work. Put that on the list. INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY Bobby Lee sits alone in the back corner of the main room of the RV. He just sits and stares, occasionally smiling cynically at Sally. 
 (into radio) Highway 16 north. Four miles south of Desdemona. Got it. (to Red) Stole a vehicle. Kaiser radios up front, the ENGINE STARTS and the Airstream moves. RED (to Adler) What kinda' shape's it in? (CONTINUED) 
 What's that? SALLY The Ford he stole. 
 Owner told the locals they only drove it to church, but it does have a bad emergency brake. (to Sally) How'd ya' know it was a Ford? SALLY He likes Fords. 
 Looks like you was right, Red. He's off the farm to market and onto a spur. Whattaya' wanna' do? RED Beef up the I-20 roadblock. Adler gets more news through the headsets. 
 What's that? (beat) Red, the locals wanna' know if they're to take a clean shot if they get one? Red stares out the window for what seems like an eternity... 
 (V.O.) Come back...? Come back Mobile One. Adler, are you there...? RED Tell 'em what I said. 
 (into mike) Uh... no. 
 (V.O.) Was that a negative? (CONTINUED) 
 No, er, yes. No means negative.     Same thing. Over. Red sees Sally peering at him over the top of her file.      He glances around at the other sets of eyes. RED I don't want some half-ass Sergeant York taking pot shots with a deer rifle. Adler puts the headphones back on. Bobby Lee smirks a bit. 
 (to Sally) I suppose you figger' he'll jus' give up. SALLY Maybe, maybe not. 
 Well now there's a safe bet. SALLY I'll give you a safe bet. The boy's in better hands now than he was. RED The third eye Pugh's sportin' on the way to the morgue shouts otherwise. Sally flashes Red a look back. Bobby Lee rises and moves past Red on his way to the toilet. 
 (casually) Then why not shoot to kill. Red just stares at Bobby Lee as the younger man moves slowly past him to the toilet. Adler on the radio... (CONTINUED) 
 (to Red) They've forwarded the stolen vehicle license to the roadblocks. You still wanna' go to the farm? Red pulls out a package of Red Man chewing tobacco and mulls over the question while he slaps a wad into his cheek. RED Yeah.     I gotta' hunch. 73   INT. FORD - DAY                                                   73 
 You got blue eyes don'tcha', Phillip? Never met a blue-eyed Phillip before. Who you named after? 
 My daddy. 
 You and your old man get along all right? 
 Yeahsir. 
 Toss the ball around, play grab-ass in the yard, that sorta' thing? 
 Nawsir. 
 Why the hell not? 
 He ain't around, really. 
 Well he is or he ain't.       When's the last time you saw him? Phillip shrugs. 
 Me'n you got a lot in common, Phillip. The both of us got blue eyes, we both like RC Cola and neither one of us has an old man worth a damn. (CONTINUED) 
 (a bit defensive) My Mama says he'll prolly' come back. Prolly' when I'm ten or so. 
 Well... she's lyin' to ya' pure and simple. He ain't never comin' back. Disappointment registers on the boy's face. 
 Guys like us, Phillip, we gotta' be on our own. Seek foolish destiny, that sorta' thing. 
 What can I do ya' for? 
 (to Phillip) Tell him your name. 
 Phillip. 
 Fill-er-up it is. The attendant starts to pump the gas. 
 See there! All you gotta' do is say your name and people are waiting on you hand and foot. Like a goddam king or somethin'. Phillip can't help but smile at the notion. 75   EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY                                               75 Bradley and Suttle lean against the parked RV, chatting. 
 You responsible for engine maintenance on this thing? 
 Uh, yeah.     I'm the full time driver. (CONTINUED) 
 What?   Why? 
 You notice how it keeps    wanting to slip a bit goin' into second.     Feels to me like somebody's been a little    heavy-footed with the clutch. (beat) I'd take care of that if   I was you. PAN TO: an ambulance door opens and the Farmer, strapped in, is rolled toward it as his wife, sobbing, attends to him. 
 No bodies this time, thank Gawd. RED You got the keys to this thing? 
 Uh... naw... RED Get me a crowbar. (to Sally) You might wanna' wait in the boat. 
 You ready to get out of those skivvies and into some britches? Phillip nods. 
 Well all right then. But first we gotta' come up with some A.K.A.'s, fake identities, ya' know. Names to call each other when we're around other folks. (beat) Go ahead and think one up. Whatever name you want. 
 Any name I want? 79    EXT. STORE FRONT - ESTABLISHING - DAY                          79 A small time Dry Goods store with a sign over the entrance proclaiming: "FRIENDLY'S - The Friendliest Store in Texas!" 80    INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                          80 A small, well-organized country dry goods store with a dozen or so aisles carrying everything from DDT to used boots. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, hello there and welcome to Friendly's. Looks like the little fella' needs some pants. 
 As a matter of fact. Shoes and new skivvies, too. He'll tell you his size. Go with the lady, Buzz. Phillip, still in somewhat of a daze, doesn't recognize his own "name". 
 Buzz! Phillip snaps to, cracks a smile at Butch and follows the lady to the children's section of the store. 
 Buzz, what a cute name.   Like a bee. 
 
 CHILDREN'S AISLE Lucy is holding jeans up to Phillip's waist. 
 It'd be easier if I knew your size, but we'll get it right. Phillip's eye catches something... (CONTINUED) 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP mesmerized by the display. 
 takes a roll of electrician's tape. He tears off a strip, attaches it to the back or his hand and tugs. It holds tight. 
 
 wearing the Casper mask. 
 Why look.     It's a friendly ghost.   Say 'Boo.' 
 (unconvincingly) Boo. 
 Not    very scary but you'll have a whole year    to work on it if your Daddy lets you    have it. Good price, too. What'd you    go as this year? 
 A bandit. 
 (realizing his find) Aw... shit... 83   INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                               83 Butch, with a handful of supplies, including the rope and tape, makes his way to the register. (CONTINUED) 
 Whattaya' think? 
 Look good. He adds them to the pile of stuff. 
 Will that be all for you today? 
 You folks are about the grinninest bunch I ever seen. Paula laughs, then drops her grin, looks behind her to see Mr. Willits is watching, and whispers... 
 Old Man Willits holds a contest ever' month. The friendliest clerk gets a $20 bonus. (beat) There's a ballot box at the front. 
 Mr. Willits adjusts his black and white TV and settles on a local news broadcast. 
 (V.O.) (on TV) ... the hunt continues for Butch Haynes, who escaped last night from the maximum security unit over in Huntsville. Haynes, six-one, 185 pounds, with brown hair is considered armed and dangerous. He was last seen... 
 Paula checks Butch's items as Lucy and Phillip emerge from an aisle and drop a pair of jeans and sneakers onto the counter. 
 Here's the clothes, but Buzz has his heart set on a Halloween costume for next year. It is half off. (CONTINUED) 
 MR. WILLITS pays more attention to Butch as the newscast continues. 
 (V.O.) ... Haynes is believed to have an 8-year-old boy with him as hostage. CLOSEUPS - BUTCH AND WILLITS Each checking out the other. 
 (to Phillip) We'll get it next time.   Go get in the car, son. 
 (into radio) Okay, Pete, I'm all set down here.    You? 
 PETE, 40, probably Terrance's uncle, slides his black and white to the opposite end of the street and puts it in park. 
 (into radio) Copasetic. Let's just keep him tied up til' the state boys get here. 85   INT. RV - DAY                                                   85 
 They've got him penned down in Noodle, north of Abilene. 86   INT. FRIENDLY'S - AT COUNTER - DAY                              86 Paula bags the items, including the jeans. 
 CLOSEUP - WILLITS staring straight at Butch. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH shakes his head at Willits -- "Don't even think about it". (CONTINUED) 
 walks toward the front door but stops short when he sees, once again, the Halloween display. 
 pays Paula, then stuffs a $20 in her blouse. 
 You are truly the friendliest clerk I ever met. She blushes a "thank you" as Butch makes a hasty retreat to the door. 
 (an afterthought) Thank you for shopping Friendly's! 87    EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY                                       87 Butch exits the store, spots the blackandwhites, and slides into the middle of a group of old-timers moving down the sidewalk at a leisurely pace. 88    INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                        88 Phillip stands at the costume display, looks around, then grabs a Casper costume carton, stuffs it under his T-shirt and walks quickly to the door. 89    EXT. SIDE ALLEY - DAY                                        89 Butch slides away from the Old Timers and into the Ford. 90A   INT. FORD - DAY                                              90A 
 Dammit, Pete!!! 92   EXT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                          92 Phillip steps out the door.    He spots the crash and watches as... The Ford blasts back into the alley in a hail of dust. 93   INT. FORD - DAY                                                93 Butch, driving like a maniac, turns into the back alley and steps on it. All at once he mashes on the BRAKES and comes to a SQUEALING stop. 
 
 I knew something was wrong from the get-go. 
 Look, he left his little boy. 
 And look, the little rascal has... he's no better than... 
 What?!... 
 He's got that Casper costume.   He stole it! 96   EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY                                         96 The FORD emerges from the side alley once more and SQUEALS onto Main Street. (CONTINUED) 
 can't believe his eyes... HIS POV - FORD is COMING STRAIGHT FOR him, hell bent on destruction and picking up speed. BACK TO SCENE Terrance sticks his black and white in rapid reverse and backs down the street at 40 mph. 
 (V.O.) (on radio) Get the hell outta' there. We can't lose both vehicles! TERRANCE'S POV - FORD is GAINING ON him -- he can actually SEE Butch's grimaced face -- when suddenly it goes into a dusty fishtail, does a 180, and barrels in the OPPOSITE direction. 
 antsy as hell, stuck, wondering how this whole thing is going to play out. He's suddenly aware of the peering eyes behind him. Lucy bangs on the glass. 
 (yells) Buzz! You little shit.   Shoplifting is a crime! 
 
 Up to you, Buzz... 
 He's frozen for a second, his knees knocking, teeth chattering, the works. Lucy appears behind him and the glass door... 
 (to Phillip) You'll never get away with this, little mister! Phillip dashes to the Ford and makes a swimmer's starting dive into the open passenger window. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Pete?... Pete?   You okay?... 99    INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY                                        99 Paula emerges from behind the counter and stares at Lucy, on the ground amidst glass and mayhem. 
 Say what you want. I'm keepin' the twenty. 100   EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY                                        100 Two young, country boys stand by the side of the road. One, FRANK, tosses an egg from hand to hand while he watches the horizon. The other, BILLY, approaches, crawling through a barb wire fence dragging something behind him. 
 Hurry up.   Someone's comin'. 
 Sure enough, a hail of dust signals the approach of a vehicle a mile or so away. Billy crawls into the ditch next to Frank. We see what he's dragged from the field -- a scarecrow with a floppy hat and red bandana. 
 Stick it in the road. Hurry up. Billy does so, propping the scarecrow into a sitting position with a forked stick. Then he races back to the ditch and slides in next to Frank to divide the eggs. (CONTINUED) 
 We got seven eggs. I get four to throw and you get three... since it was my idea. Billy nods. 
 Here they come.   Aim for windows and get ready to run. The car crests the hill, followed by another, and another and a final one, all Highway Patrol, all with their lights on and 
. 
 Oh shit! 
 Here, take them nasty skivvies off and put on yer' jeans. He spots Phillip's not so successful effort to hide the costume box. 
 Whatya' got there? 
 A ghost suit. 
 From the store?   You kyped it? Phillip nods, expecting the worst. 
 Well, hell, Phillip, put it on. 
 You ain't mad? 
 Let's unnerstan' each other here. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 BUTCH (CONT'D) Stealin's wrong, ok? But if there's somethin' you need bad and you ain't got the money, then it's okay to take a loaner on the item. It's what ya' call an exception to the rule. Phillip tears into the box, rips out the costume, looks at it, starts to take off his underwear then balks. Butch notices. 
 What's wrong? 
 Nuthin'. 
 What? You don't wanna' get undressed, is that it? Phillip shrugs. 
 You embarrassed caus' I might see yer' pecker? 
 It's... puny. 
 What? 
 It's puny. 
 Well hell, lemme' see. Phillip still hesitates. 
 Go on.   I'll shoot ya' straight. Phillip gingerly pulls off his underwear. Butch smiles a broad grin. 
 Hell no, Phillip, it's good size for a boy yer' age! Phillip, remasculated, smiles and starts to put on the costume. 
 Here they come. 
 Bobby Lee who sits by himself, whittling away at a stick and leering at her. Adler is at the map, holding the shortwave mike and wearing the earphones. Behind him, Red stares out the window. 
 Haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes for the boy. Red comes to and turns to Adler. Sally smiles almost to her- self. She was right -- Haynes is looking after the boy. Everyone knows it, but no one says anything. 
 One puzzler though. They say the boy could have gotten away but didn't. SALLY Probably scared to death. 
 That's not all. The kid stole a Halloween outfit. 
 With the pit stop in Noodle looks like he's headed for the Panhandle. Red sighs and groans. Unpleasant news but somehow he knew it. He moves to the back room for another shot of Geritol. SALLY (to Red) What? 
 There's more roads than people in the Panhandle. (CONTINUED) 
 (over his shoulder) Poor counties. They tend to half finish roads then start on another one. 
 But if anybody knows them backroads it's Red. Sally lifts her head, watches Red reenter the room, then stares out the window. 
 (sotto voce) What's she doin', Red? SALLY I killed a man when I was eight. Silence. Nobody seems willing to play along.    Red turns from the window to Sally. RED How'd ya' kill him? SALLY Shot him with a pistol. There was always one around the dance hall. That's what they called it but it was a whorehouse. We lived there. Red moves away from the discussion and stands at the front of the Airstream, staring out the front window. 
 What'd the authorities do? SALLY The victim was wanted by the locals so the whole thing got shoved under the carpet Cajun-style. 
 They didn't even stick him in juvy? (CONTINUED) 
 Sounds like things are goin' okay' now? SALLY They were.     For awhile.   When I'm twelve mom dies. 
 What happened? SALLY Delilah Jane Haynes hung herself in the bathroom of the brothel. Could have saved herself the trouble. Post-mortem check uncovered last stage syphilis. 
 Where's yer' father? Red's face tells us he's listening. SALLY Nobody knows where he is now. Ditched when I was six. He was a small-time felon. Popped up again after Mom died -- he'd just been paroled. Moved us back to Amarillo. A year later I'm in trouble again. 
 Yeah?     Kill somebody else? SALLY Took a joyride in a Ford coupe that I just couldn't resist. 
 Hell, that's no big deal. SALLY Judge gave me four years in Gatesville, toughest juvy farm in Texas. 
 That's where the son-of-a-bitch learned to be a criminal. Seen that before, ain't we, Red? Red doesn't answer.     He seems in a faraway place. (CONTINUED) 
 (smart ass) So, Butch, why don't you tell us where yer' goin', save us the trouble o' huntin' you down? SALLY Where I'm going isn't as important as 'Why am I going there?' 
 (tired of the game) Shit. 'Caus' I'm runnin' and they're chasin' and I'd jus' as soon go north as south as east as west. It's a fun lil' parlor game, lady, but right now Butch Haynes don't have the slightest idea where he's headed! 104A INT. FORD - DAY                                                104A Phillip, now fully-attired in his Casper outfit and mask, is looking at a folded map while Butch drives. 
 An inch is 24 miles. Hold yer' pointin' finger along the line of the road. You got three lines on your finger, don'tcha'? Each one's an inch. So how many inches to Childress? Phillip holds one finger to the map, then another. 
 One, two... six. 
 Yer' a helluva' navigator, Phillip. A lot smarter than Jerry. But I guess that's not sayin' a lot. Something catches Phillip's eye. 
 Lookie there! 104B HIS POV - TRUCK AND AIRSTREAM                                  104B coming TOWARD them on the highway. 105   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                          105 Bradley, driving, tinkers with a broken windowshade. Suttle yawns, comes to, notices the broken windowshade and gives Bradley a look. Bradley, caught, just smiles. 
 (excited, too) Seen one of them in a magazine. It's called a motor home. They're new. Kinda' like a house on wheels. Butch HONKS the HORN TWICE and waits for a retort. 107   INT. TRUCK - DAY                                                  107 Bradley smiles, looks to Suttle, who nods an "okay."    Johnson sits on the HORN for TWO solid BLASTS. 108   INT. FORD - DAY                                                   108 Phillip laughs and waves. 
 Butch is hard to make out, but there's no mistaking the Casper outfit Phillip wears with pride. BACK TO SCENE SALLY You said the boy stole a Halloween costume... What character? 
 I believe it was Casper... Casper the friendly ghost. SALLY That was them.   They just passed us. RED Turn this thing around! Adler jumps on the radio to the truck. 
 (into mike) Turn it around! That was them! 110   EXT. ROAD - SAME TIME                                             110 The Airstream slows to a grind, pulls off the narrow shoulder and begins to make a wide U-turn. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) We'll never make it. Stop! It's a close fit but the Airstream just survives a brush with a burm. The TRUCK PEELS away with Airstream in tow. 111   OMITTED                                                        111 111A INT. FORD - DAY                                                 111A Butch checks his rear-view mirror and gets a puzzled look on his face. IN REAR-VIEW MIRROR 
 It's... it's not safe to go over 65 with this much load! The speedometer reaches 80.   The ENGINE SCREAMS. 111C INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                            111C The whole thing is shaking, twisting, bumping.    All aboard try and keep their balance. 
 (to Adler) Tell him to pull up next to 'em! 
 Phillip turns around backward in the seat to watch. 
 They're goin' fast! 
 Phillip, you get in the back seat and lie down on the floor. (CONTINUED) 
 Why? 
 Hell, I don't know. 'Caus' I said so! 111E INT. TRUCK - DAY                                                111E Suttle is scared to death while Bradley is loving every minute. The ENGINE starts to STEAM. 
 Yer burnin' up the engine! But Bradley pays no heed. 
 Hold on, Phillip! 111H EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 111H 
 Don't!!! 111J EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 111J The truck, in an attempt to enter the field, misses the flat spot, hits a burm with its front right tire and flies into the air. (CONTINUED) 
 
 Red spots the same but before he can cuss... 111L EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 111L The Airstream veers off the road and into the rocky field. Trees, scrub brush and boulders are no deterrent for the sleek silverfish which seems to be moving even faster than before. 111M INT. TRUCK - DAY                                                111M Steam, smoke pouring from the engine. Suttle, covering his eyes, sneaks a peek behind and screams when he sees no Airstream behind them. 
 Ahhhh!!    They're gone!!! Bradley looks in the rear-view mirror, turns around and screams, too. Without visual guidance... 111N EXT. FIELD - DAY                                                111N The TRUCK BLASTS into a mesquite tree, runs halfway up the tree, then dies a horrible death. 111-O INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                           111-O It's an anti-gravity room what with the files, coffee, maps and bodies flying around. 
 Uh... Red? 
 They wanna know if the boy looked okay? SALLY He was laughing and waving. RED Don't tell 'em that. 112   INT. GOVERNOR'S OFFICE (AUSTIN, TEXAS) - DAY             112 A large group of very serious advisors sit and stand in a circle around the Governor's desk. Across from GOVERNOR CONNALLY sits a nervous, near tears GLADYS PERRY. An AIDE on the telephone, turns to the Governor. 
 They say the boy looked A-okay. Governor Connally nods, sighs, and reaches hand across the desk and touches Gladys's shoulder. 
 He'll be fine, Mrs. Perry. This whole nightmare will be over and done with very soon and you'll be home with your boy. I promise. Gladys, distraught, nods. Governor Connally discreetly nods to a photographer in the group while keeping his hand on Gladys's shoulder. A CAMERA'S FLASH causes everyone to blink in reaction. The Governor shakes it off and continues... (CONTINUED) 
 I want you to know that I personally okayed the use of a brand-new high-tech mobile home from which to conduct the manhunt. It's an amazingly futuristic piece of law enforcement equipment. Another FLASH. 113 OMITTED                                                           113 thru                                                                  thru 115                                                                   115 115A EXT. FIELD - DAY                                                 115A 
 Butch sits on the hood of the Ford, which is stopped on an asphalt road which, a few feet farther, turns into dirt and a few feet farther a dirt clod field. (CONTINUED) 
 Started this road 20 years ago and it still ain't finished. (beat) Appears to me we got a decision to make. Phillip, aka Casper, exits the car and, imitating Butch, leans against the car. 
 It's up to you, Phillip. We can backtrack to the highway or we can try it on foot. 
 Where we goin'? 
 INSERT - CARD It's at least 20 years old, crumpled. It unfolds to reveal a beautiful green valley with a snow capped mountain behind it. BACK TO SCENE 
 It's Alaska, Phillip. Last of the wild frontier. 
 It's pretty. 
 It's beautiful! 
 You been there? 
 Naw. Just got the one postcard. But anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. You feel like a hike? 
 How far? 
 Can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred miles. Phillip seems a tad apprehensive about the prospect. (CONTINUED) 
 Yer' prolly' right. Go give our supplies a check. Phillip returns to the car and emerges with the paper bag once full of soda, candy and jerky. Butch surveys the countryside. HIS POV - PAN COUNTRYSIDE Typical midwest Texas; flat, dusty, barren.     A mile or so away sits a home -- a small ranchhouse. BACK TO SCENE Phillip returns with the bag and pores through it. 
 How's it look? 
 A soda... some gum... half a Moon Pie. 
 Rations for one at best.    Come on. Butch strides straight into the rocky field. Phillip lingers a moment, then sticks the half eaten moon pie in his mouth and follows, hurrying to catch up. 117 OMITTED                                                           117 thru                                                                  thru 122                                                                   122 122A EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DAY                                     122A Suttle limps around the broken-down silver junker, his hands covering what his eyes can't bear to see. 
 Now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety chain? Suttle turns and glares. 
 Yes!!! 
 Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of the door and calls to Red... (CONTINUED) 
 Governor's hot line, Red. Governor insists that he have the mobile home back for the parade tomorrow. Red just stares at Adler, then sighs, removes his hat and scratches his head. RED (isn't it obvious?) Tell 'em to come and get it. 123   EXT. DUSTY FIELD - DAY                                            123 Butch continues his hell-bent brisk pace in the field of dirt clods. It's all Phillip can do to keep up. 
 Where we goin'? 
 We're goin' trick r' treatin', Phillip. Phillip stops dead in his tracks. Butch, sensing that the boy is no longer following, stops, spins and faces Phillip. 
 What? 
 We ain't allowed to trick r' treat. 
 Huh? 
 My mama don't allow it. 
 Trick r' treatin'? Why not? 
 Against our religion. 
 Against yer' religion.     What kind of foolishness is that? 
 Jehovah Witness. Butch picks up a dirt clod and hurls it as far as he can.         He sighs and turns to Phillip. (CONTINUED) 
 Now, I'm askin' you, Phillip. I ain't askin' yer' mother and I ain't askin' Jehovah. Do you wanna' go trick r' treatin' or not? 124   EXT. YARD OF FARMHOUSE                                        124 Butch and Phillip cross the dirt yard and make their way to the door. 
 Ok, Phillip, all ya' gotta' do is knock on the door and when they open it you say 'trick or treat.' Got it? 
. 
 Now wait til' they come. A FARM WIFE, 65 or so, like something from a Grant Wood, only smiling, opens the door and looks out on the pair through the screen door. 
 (whispers) Now, Phillip. 
 Trick r' treat. WOMAN (FARM WIFE) Well ain't you the cutest lil' ghost I ever did see. 
 (whispers) Say it again, Phillip. 
 Trick r' treat, ma'am. 
 Well, seein' that Halloween was yesterday, I guess you'll have to trick me. You missed the caramel popcorn balls I made up special. Butch smiles, pulls up his shirt and exposes the revolver stuck in his pants. 
 (tune changed) Wait right here. Butch smiles and pats Phillip on the shoulder.    His eyes are drawn to... (CONTINUED) 
 Thankyew. 125   EXT. YARD - DAY (SECONDS LATER)                                125 Phillip, sack in hand, waves goodbye to the frightened old Woman, who shuts her door and locks it. Butch and Phillip make their way back across the yard. 
 Never underestimate the kindness of the common man, Phillip. Butch reaches up and grabs the phone line, yanks it loose and tosses it aside. 126   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                           126 
 (into mike) Spur 208 northbound. And 83 at Aspermont coming and going. (to Red) That it? RED Yeah. Adler moves to set down the mike and topples a cup of coffee. It spills on the floor. Suttle grabs a towel to wipe it up but realizing the futility of keeping the Airstream clean, he simply throws it aside. 
 You sure there's no meat in there? Spam maybe, Vienna sausages, anything like that? 
 Nawsir. 
 Well, I bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'? 
 Yeahsir. 
 Well go to it. Phillip breaks out the loaf of bread and lays out four slices on the dashboard. 
 How many? 
 Many as you want. Phillip   lays out six more slices. The dashboard is now covered   with bread. Phillip pulls out the mustard but has no knife.    Butch pulls out a stick of gum and hands it to Phillip   to spread with. As they drive  along they pass a large, happy family (Mom, Dad, girl 5, boy 7)  picnicking in the dip of a long hill alongside the highway.   From the look of their brand-new loaded down station wagon  they are on vacation. 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Mesmerized by the family. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH Ditto.    He pulls his eyes back to the road, notices something. 128   EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                128 Butch brings the car to a stop near the crest of the hill, sets the emergency brake, grabs the first completed mustard sandwich and gets out, leaving the Impala running. (CONTINUED) 
 Be right back. Don't be stingy with that mustard now. Phillip nods and continues piling the yellow goop on each of the slices of bread. 
 walks ahead to the crest of the hill, the tallest hill in the county. He takes in the 360 degree view. His eyes settle on... LINE OF CARS 
 spreading even more mustard. Every so often he sneaks a peek back at the picnicing family. 
 slips a little, then gives all at once. 
 starts to roll backwards. 
 Whooaaa!   Butch!    Butch!!! 
 
 Step on the brake! Put your foot on the brake! The middle one!! 
 panicked, slides over and grabs the wheel. Of course, he is too short to press on the brake and when he bends down... 
 swerves off the road and onto the shoulder. (CONTINUED) 
 headed by BOB, 35, their Ward Cleaverish father, looks up to see... 
 barrelling backwards toward them, swerving to and fro and followed by Butch shouting instructions. 
 (O.S.) Everybody, run!    Quick! 
 
 BOB'S WIFE Forget the car, Bob! 
 Are you crazy.    It's only got a 1000 miles on it! He jumps in the Driver's seat of the WAGON and frantically REVS it just as... 
 gains control of the wheel and steers the rapidly reversing Ford around the Wagon. 
 continues backwards to the bottom of the hill, but it has enough steam built up to head backwards up the other incline of the previous hill. 
 comes to a heaving halt next to Bob, who is near heart attack himself. 
 Bad brakes. 
 That was close. Bob gets out of the station wagon and stands next to Butch. They watch for the Ford for a second, see that it's losing momentum and smile at each other. (CONTINUED) 
 Bob Fielder. 
 Edgar Poe. 
 breathes a sigh of relief as the Ford loses momentum and comes to a stop. But then, of course, ... 
 like any car on a roller coaster, starts to move downhill, slowly at first, but then picking up speed. 
 Had me scared silly.      I've only had her two months. 
 She's a beaut, all right. Say,      Bob, what with my brake problem and all,     I sure would appreciate a lift. Me'n my boy      live about five miles up the road here. I      can pick up the car tomorrow. They notice the Ford coming back down the hill and squint to see... 
 coming straight for them, gaining speed, with Casper the friendly ghost behind the wheel. 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Screaming at the top of his lungs. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH Staring straight ahead at Phillip. Butch doesn't even flinch, standing his ground in the middle of the road, staring straight into Phillip's oncoming face. 
 The brake, Phillip! Step on the brake! Hard! (CONTINUED) 
 totally freaked, jumps down on the floorboard and pushes with both hands on the brake. SQUEALING TIRES bring... 
 to a SKIDDING halt inches from Butch's kneecaps. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH smiles at Phillip. 
 Helluva job, Phillip! Never had a doubt. 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Smiling back. 
 crawls down from the luggage rack on top of his wagon and smiles a sigh of relief. 129   EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY                                           129 Two Highway Patrol officers check licenses and peek into cars at the checkpoint. In the b.g. we see the red station wagon in line. 130   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                       130 It's   full to the brim with the Family Bob plus two, Butch and   Phillip, who ride in the back with Bob's son. As the car   approaches the roadblock Butch grabs a blanket, reclines, and   hides behind a stuffed animal. 
 Sorry for the inconvenience, Edgar. The kids like the back down like that so they can play. 
 No trouble at all, Bob. 131   EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY                                           131 Bob brings his precious car to a gingerly stop.    He pulls out his license, shows it. 
 Why the roadblock, Officer? 
 Escaped convict, sir. Just a precaution. 
 INSERT - FILE 
 (to Red) They've got two Highway Patrol cars they can give to us now. RED Tell 'em stand by. We got the     best seat in the house right here. Have     the southern roadblocks call in the    dogs and move north. Check every road,     every farm from San Angelo to Sweetwater. (CONTINUED) 
 He knows he's hemmed in. I predict we'll have him singing a different tune by nightfall. 136   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                               136 The red station wagon creeps along the highway to the whistled strains of "Old MacDonald had a Farm." 137   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                         137 Butch, truly "singing a different tune," whistles "Old MacDonald." Bob joins in and soon the whole damn Family Bob is whistling the tune. Bob's daughter PATSY, 5, red hair, freckles, starts jumping up and down on the back seat, singing and spilling her drink. 
 BOB'S SON You're spilling!     You're spilling! Bob and his Wife immediately turn around. 
 Patsy!    Look at what you're doing?! 
 Ahhh noooo! Bob's wife grabs Patsy by the arm and shakes her. Butch con- tinues to whistle softly, almost eerily, but he's watching closely. 
 BOB'S WIFE Look at what you did! It's all over the seat of your father's new car! The little girl    starts to cry while Bob grabs at tissues feverishly and    hands them to his Wife who, leaning over the seat is wiping    hard at the stain. She grabs her daughter's arm and shakes    her, staring into her face. Butch, directly behind the little girl, watches closely. 
 BOB'S WIFE What is wrong with you?! I told you twice not to jump up and down! Didn't I!! Patsy bawls harder than ever. Bob's Wife finishes wiping and reseats herself in the front seat. (CONTINUED) 
 BOB'S WIFE (to herself) Damn that kid! The little girl is crying harder than ever now. Bob reaches back over the seat and tries to touch his daughter. 
 It's okay, sweetie. Daddy's not mad. 
 BOB'S WIFE So much for the new car smell. The little girl muffles her tears. 
 This will do fine right here, Bob.   But I do have one more favor to ask. 138   EXT. ROAD - DAY (FIVE MINUTES LATER)                           138 The entire Family Bob is standing along the roadside, their luggage and belongings by their side. The looks on their faces say it all -- Stranded. Butch hands over the stuffed animal to Patsy, pats Bob Jr. on the head and sticks out his hand to Bob. 
 Just a loaner, Bob. Not to worry.    You'll get her back. Bob reluctantly shakes Butch's hand in an attempt to impress upon Butch his most important concern of all... 
 Please, it's new. Hold it under 45... at least for the next 500 miles. 
 You know I will, Bob. Butch gives a snappy salute and is off to the wagon. 139   INT. STATION WAGON - DAY                                       139 Butch STARTS the CAR and he and Phillip slowly pull away. 
 Wave, Phillip. Phillip does so.   Bob's kids wave back.   Phillip starts to giggle. (CONTINUED) 
 They look funny. 
 Maybe, but Bob did the right thing. What if he'd put up a fight? I mighta' had to shoot him, and where would that family be then? Naw, Bob's a fine family man and that's about the best thing a fella' can hope to be. Butch floors the wagon and the CAR SCREECHES rubber on the highway. 
 
 cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along with their luggage and coolers. 141   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                           141 Adler drops his headphones and turns to Red. 
 He got through!    At Aspermont. 
 What? 
 Coerced a motorist. Red sighs. RED Well goddam, shout at Amarillo. Tell 'em we got a notion he's headed their way. Adler gets right to it. (CONTINUED) 
 Well, uh... Adler jumps up and goes to the frig. 
 Got T-bones in the frig, Red! 
 Uh, uh, those were stocked for the Governor. I don't think that he would approve of... Adler finds a plastic bag in the freezer and inspects it. 
 -- And look, Red!     Tater Tots!   Those kind you like! Red turns and looks. 
 Can't find a Coonass Waltz to save my ass. (beat) Hey, Phillip, that stuff you told me 'bout not trick r' treatin' causa' Jehovah... Was you pullin' my leg? 
 Nawsir. (CONTINUED) 
 What else ain't you suppose' to do? 
 We don't get Christmas. 
 Yer' shittin' me? 
 Nawsir.   No birthdays, nor parties, neither. 
 You ain't never been to a carnival neither, have ya'? 
 Nawsir. 
 Not even one? 
 Not even one. 
 Cotton candy? 
 Seen that once.     It's red. 
 Pink. 
 Never ate none though. 
 Roller coasters? 
 Seen pictures. 
 You know, Phillip, you have a goddammed red, white and blue American right to eat cotton candy and ride roller coasters. 
 I do? 
 MOUTH - DAY screaming.   PULL BACK to reveal... 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP still screaming in glee, the wind blowing his crew-cut straight up into the air. PULL BACK FARTHER to reveal that Phillip is firmly tied to the luggage rack of the station wagon, which is rocketing across the winding plains of West Texas. BOOM DOWN to reveal Butch, having almost as much fun as Phillip, hooping and hollering as he steps on the gas and weaves to and fro trying his damndest to hit every bump. 
 (quiet as a mouse) Thankyew, Father, for yer' 'boundiful' nature and goodness. Butch and the Waitress/cook share a smile. 
 Amen.  Now dig in, Buzz. (to Waitress) Call him that caus' he eats like a buzzard. If it's dead he'll swoop and chow. (CONTINUED) 
 You Dottie? 
 Eileen. Dottie died. Her son runs the place but... he ain't never here. 
 Never? 
 EILEEN (WAITRESS) He leaves at four. Not much traffic after lunch. 
 If you need me, I'll be right over here. She slowly sashays away to behind the counter. Butch watches her every step. Phillip chews and watches Butch's eyes. Butch turns his head and catches Phillip watching him. 
 Eat yer' food. 146   EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DUSK                                  146 
 sitting outside, rises and slides into the Airstream while BACK TO SCENE Red continues to cook with Adler and Bradley looking on. 147   INT. AIRSTREAM - BACKROOM - DUSK                                147 Sally turns on a nightlight and looks at herself in the mirror. She splashes a little water on her face and is startled when ... Bobby Lee slides in behind her. 
 Think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'? She doesn't back down, instead looking him straight in the eye. SALLY Excuse me? 
 Well yer' not smart but you are pretty. Sally stares right at Bobby Lee then moves for the door.    He shifts his position and blocks her. SALLY Excuse me. Bobby Lee smiles a crooked-tooth grin, refusing to move. 
 Work and pleasure should naturally go together don't you think? Take me, I enjoy my work. SALLY I could give a shit. 
 You got a mouth, don't ya? RED (O.S.) How you take your steak, Sally? Bobby Lee and Sally both look up to see Red standing in the doorway. (CONTINUED) 
 Anything else, Chief? RED Yeah.   Yer' in my office. The hot line PHONE RINGS... Bobby Lee flinches first and moves back into the main room. Red follows. 
 That's the Governor's line, Red! Red calmly walks past Sally who smiles a "thanks". He gives her a one finger to the hat salute, walks to the phone, reaches down and yanks out the cord. The RINGING STOPS. RED Nuthin' as impolite as callin' at the dinner hour. 148   INT. DOTTIE'S    CAFE - NIGHT                                148 Phillip, at the booth, plays with the parsley on his empty plate, which sits across from Butch's barely touched one. The boy looks over his shoulder and sneaks a peek at Butch, who sits at a barstool watching Eileen work behind the counter. (CONTINUED) 
 Butch leans over and whispers something sexy into Eileen's ear. She giggles and licks her lips. Butch feels eyes on his back and looks at Phillip, who immediately turns away from them. When Butch returns his attention to Eileen she's moved a few feet away and is refilling ketchup bottles. 
 Buzz, go ahead and chew on mine if you want. 
 No thankyew. 
 Very polite. 
 I try hard but, ya' know, since his mama died... 
 -- My mama's not dead! Butch, a tad annoyed, turns to Phillip and gives him a look. Once again, when he turns back, Eileen has moved. She's flirting with Butch, moving, bending, wiping her hands on her hips. His eyes are focused on her every squirm. 
 (over his shoulder) Okay now, Buzz, you go on out in the parking lot and chunk some rocks or something. BACK TO SCENE Phillip reluctantly slides down off the stool and slowly walks out the door. His eyes stay on Butch and Eileen, barely concealing confusion mixed with a hint of jealousy. 
 So is she dead or not? 
 (covering badly) Well his biological mother is alive. Gave him up for adoption to me and my wife. My dead wife, that is. She is, was Phil, er Buzz's stepmother, so she's his mom, was his mom, stepmom, but... she's dead. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm so sorry. But she's not.     In fact it seems to have turned her on even more. She puts her hand behind Butch's neck and slowly pulls him close for gentle kiss. 149   EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT                                        149 Phillip tosses a rock then turns to the diner. They're gone. Phillip drops his handful of rocks and walks to the front window of the diner. 
 Nosy little feller'. 152D BUTCH                                                          152D races to the side window and watches as Phillip runs into the parking lot. 
 Phillip!... 
 (a last try) I keep a cot in the back. But Butch, still at the window, just keeps breathing. 153   EXT. DOTTIE'S CAFE - ANGLE ON SKY - NIGHT (SECONDS            153 LATER) Nothing but stars swimming in black West Texas crude. 
 stands right next to the SPUTTERING NEON SIGN, staring straight up, the neon light splashing his face in a grotesque pink light. (CONTINUED) 
 Get in the car. 154   INT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT                             154 Silence. Butch drives away libidinous desires, Phillip sits quietly, staring straight ahead, now and again stealing a peek at Butch. 
 You mad at me? 
 (curt) No. More silence. 
 You kissed her, huh? 
 (much regret) Jus' barely. 
 Why? 
 Caus' it feels good. Ain't you ever seen your mama kiss a man? 
 No. (beat) You kissed her backside, huh? 
 It's, well, uh, it's kinda' hard to explain. I know how it musta' looked. (beat) Hell, I don't know how it looked.... As Butch's voice trails off silence overtakes the car. After a few seconds Butch seems happy not to have to answer any more questions. Phillip fidgits with the door handle. Several more seconds pass, then... (CONTINUED) 
 Do you love her? 
 Who? 
 The lady that cooked the hamburgers? Butch ponders this, then a grin slides across his face. 
 Yeah, Phillip, I love her. (beat) Kissed her butt didn't I? 
 (V.O.) You wanna' drive? 
 (V.O.) Yeah! 
 (V.O.) Jus' kiddin', Buzz. I'm just gonna' stop here for awhile and catch 40. 156   INT. WAGON - NIGHT                                              156 
 Things go our way we'll be in Alaska in four or five days. Get the jump on winter. Phillip looks a little sad. 
 What's wrong? 
 I wanna' go home. 
 If you wanted to go home so bad, why didn't you stay at that store today? (CONTINUED) 
 Caus'. 
 Caus' why? 
 'Caus' I stole. They'd put me in jail. Prolly' go to hell. Butch chuckles at the notion. 
 Same difference.    We'll get you home soon. I swear, okay? 
 Butch? 
 Yeah, Phillip? 
 I can drive. 
 Done proved that ain'tcha'? There's lots and lots of stuff you can do, Phillip. (gets an idea) Reach in that glovebox there. See if Bob's got a notepad or something. Phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad. 
 Good old Bob. Can you write? 
 I can print. 
 Good enough. Now I want you to make a list of everything you ever wanted to do but wasn't allowed to. Okay? 
 Like what? 
 Like... cotton candy. 
 Cotton candy? (CONTINUED) 
 Hell I don't know. It's yer' list. Butch settles in for a catnap.      Just as his eyes close... 
 Butch?... 
 Yeah?... 157   EXT. FIELD - NIGHT                                              157 Only the dome light and the LOW MUSIC bring attention to the car sitting lonely in the middle of the massive field. 
 (V.O.) How ya' spell 'rocketship?' 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH also asleep, but only his body -- his mind works over- time... DISSOLVE TO: 161   SERIES OF SHOTS - BUTCH'S DREAM                                161 (NOTE: the entire dream is a series of snapshots to a strong Coonass beat) A)   A baby snapshot of Butch. (CONTINUED) 
: 162   BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT                                             162 that FILLS the FRAME. INT./EXT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT (PRESENT) 
 Me n' the boy was just catchin' some shut-eye in yer' field. 
 Oh, it ain't mine. I just works it for Mr. Andrews. Where ya'll from? 
 Drove from Texarkana yesterday. 
 Quite a haul. 
 Said a mouthful there. 
 Well, ain't no sense in ya'll sleepin' in the car. Not when I got a fold out couch sittin' empty. 
 Wouldn't want to put you out.     'Sides we need to get back on the road. 
 No trouble t'all. Wake you up first light, fill yer' belly and send you on yer' way. 163   EXT. RURAL ROAD - FIRST LIGHT - DAY                            163 A Highway Patrol car, followed by a tow truck, breeze along the highway. 164   OMITTED                                                        164 
 We didn't pass it did we? Saunders spots the RV on the horizon. 
 There it is. 166   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            166 
 Good Gawd Almighty. Governor ain't gonna' like this. 168   INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                           168 Suttle is asleep among the rubble. He jumps to when Saunders bursts in. Saunders gasps when he sees the shape his prize vehicle is in. 
 Where are they?! 
 Uh, uh, they're gone. 
 How long?! 
 I don't know, uh, four, five hours. Saunders, dejected, starts to move some of the trash from the couch. He sits down and moans... 
 Well, goddammit, did he say anything? 
 Yeah. (CONTINUED) 
 What?! 
 Well, uh, Chief Garnett wanted me to tell you that the vehicle gets his seal of approval.... Saunders' face begins to turn red. 
 And that he wants his chair back. If he was red before, now Saunders is crimson.   A ther- mometer dropped into boiling water. 
 (scared) Aaaayyyyy! 
 (more scared) Aaaayyyy!!! Butch jumps up like a rocket and is on the floor in an instant. 
 Aaaayyyyy!!!! Cleve races into the kitchen and the apron strings of his grandmother, Mack's wife, LOTTIE. 
 He wake ya'll up? (to Cleve) Now I told ya not to do that. BUTCH AND PHILLIP, breathing hard, can't help but laugh. 
 No harm, Ma'am. 
 I'm Lottie. Mack's wife.     This here's my grandbaby, Cleveland. 
 Name's Cleve.   I'm six. 
 I'm eight.   Mine's Buzz. 174   INT. MACK'S KITCHEN - DAY                                    174 Butch, Cleve and Phillip finish breakfast while Lottie pours coffee. Cleve and Phillip, hitting it off well, are engaged in fervent storytelling. 
 We got us a creek down the way. Wanna go later? (CONTINUED) 
 Sure thing. Mack enters after a hard night's work. 
 Mornin' to ya. 
 Mornin'.   Rest done ya'll some good. 
 You wanna plate? 
 Not jus' yet. (to Cleve) Boy, go get my thermos from the truck. Cleve, still whispering and giggling with Phillip, isn't really listening. 
 Don't ya hear good, boy?! Mack firmly cuffs the boy's ear and Cleve jumps up and out the door, one hand holding the side of his head. Butch and Phillip both look up at Mack. 
 Boy don't got the sense Gawd gave a chicken. 175   INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY                           175 
 Want me to stay on Highway 70? RED Let's head on over towards Amarillo. We'll cross him there or wave goodbye at the border. 176   INT. MACK'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY                          176 Phillip sits on   the couch and watches as Butch shows Cleve a trick. Cleve    bends over, puts his hands between his legs and Butch grabs   them and pulls -- a flip. Cleve is ecstatic at the   result. Phillip and Butch laugh along. 
 Agin'!   Do it agin'! (CONTINUED) 
 (to Butch) Where's the boy's mother? 
 We left her at home this time.   Boy's night out kinda thing. Butch spots an old phonograph. 
 Say, lookie here. He gives it a spin with his finger and searches through a stack of 78s. 
 Mr. Andrews give 'em to us when he got hisself a newfangled one. Butch finds a particular favorite. 
 Jeezus. Now this is music. You know how long it's been since I heard this. 
 That's an oldie all right. Mrs. Andrews' maiden name was Bougeois -- half-Creole herself she is, but Mr. Andrews he don't like nobody to know. 'Suppose that's why he give 'em to us. 177   INT. BATHROOM - DAY                                          177 Mack drops his pants and sits on the throne. He reaches over and turns ON the RADIO resting on the wash basin. A FARM REPORT comes on just as... 178   INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY                                       178 A NEEDLE DROPS on a 78, filling the room with the SCRATCHY sounds of a Coonass waltz. Butch's eyes come to life. 
 You dance, Lottie? 
 Lawd goodness no. (CONTINUED) 
 Here, jus' follow me. He takes her in his arms and slowly but surely adjusts her movement to his. After a few rough turns they're not too bad. Phillip can't help but smile as he and Cleve watch and giggle. Butch and Lottie dance, swirling around the room. 
 Mr. Poe, you sure can move. 
 Oughta be able to. Was raised in a dime a dance whorehouse. 
 Yer' foolin' me? 
 No, ma'am. My mama would dance their asses out of the fryin' pan and into the back room fire. Butch spots Phillip and Cleve, watching, giggling. 
 Get on yer' feet, Buzz.     You'n Cleve shake a leg. 
 (encouraging) Well go on! 
 Dance, boys! The little boys do their best to emulate the adults and soon they're laughing and dancing, too. The RECORD STOPS. They all clap and laugh.         Butch hears something... The RADIO in the bathroom. 179   INT. BATHROOM - DAY                                              179 Mack sits, cleaning his fingernails with a Barlow knife as the radio announcer begins a news flash. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) Update on the manhunt for the escaped convict. Haynes is armed and extremely dangerous. He is believed to have a hostage with him, an eight-year-old boy. A finger turns OFF the RADIO. We FOLLOW the finger UP an arm TO Butch's concerned face. He sits down on the edge of the tub across from Mack and takes the knife away from him. 
 We'll be leavin' soon enough. I'll kill all of you if you try anything stupid. Mack swallows hard. 
 What's Texarkana like? I ain't never been there. 
 (through his teeth) Oh, it's real nice. I got a dog named... Phillip and a tree house and... Mack, nervous, enters the room followed by Butch. 
 Come on, Buzz.   Time for us to hit the road. 
 Whass' wrong, Mack? You look like you seen a ghost. Cleve runs up to Butch, turns around backwards and puts his hands between his legs. 
 Do me agin'! 
 (scared for the boy) No!   Boy! Get over by yer' Mammaw! Lottie senses something is wrong.   Cleve, too young to smell trouble, persists... 
 Come on, Mister, do me agin'! (CONTINUED) 
 Why'd ya'   wanna' go and hit Cleve for? He didn't   move fast enough for ya', is that it?    Or maybe he gets excited sometimes   and don't hear everything ya' say? You    make me sick to my stomach. Butch spits in Mack's face, then rises and walks over to Phillip and hands him the revolver. 
 Point it at 'em. 
 I don't wanna'... 
 Point it! 
 Now, son, you wanna' flip? Cleve shakes his head "no" between sobs. Butch gently takes the boy and lifts him to a standing position. 
 Go ahead. Put yer' hands between yer' legs. I won't hurt ya'. Cleve turns to Mack and then runs to him. Butch walks calmly over and pulls the crying child away from the old man and back to the center of the room. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Mack) He don't trust ya' no more. You gotta' earn that, ya' know? (to Cleve) Put yer' hands 'tween yer' legs, son. Cleve,    still sobbing, does so. Butch reaches down and flips    him, all the while staring at Mack. Each time he flips    the boy, Butch reaches down, grabs Cleve's hands and flips    him again. Finally he allows the frightened child to go to Mack and Lottie. 
 Buzz.    Go out to the car and get that rope. Phillip stands frozen. 
 Phillip!... Phillip slowly rises and walks away.      He stops for a moment and turns his back. EXTREME CLOSEUP - PHILLIP His eyes lock in a gaze with... EXTREME CLOSEUP - CLEVE His sobbing eyes plead for something, anything. 
 (to Mack) Now you hold that boy and tell him you love him. Mack grabs Cleve and sets him in his lap. (CONTINUED) 
 (scared) I love you. Butch cocks the revolver and slides forward.     His nose is almost touching Mack's. 
 No, old man.    Say it like you mean it. 
 This boy know I loves him, mistah'. 
 Then say it. 
 Please, mistah'. I gotta' sense about you. I know you a good man. 
 Nome', I ain't a good man. Ain't the worst neither, jus' a different breed. 183   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                               183 Phillip is at the screen door looking in.     He holds the bag in his hand. 
 Butch sits on the coffee table, which is pushed right up to Mack, Lottie and Cleve, who sit on chairs. 184   INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY                                         184 
 Say it, Mack.   Don't cost nuthin'. 
 I love you, Cleve. 
 (serious) Gawd that's beautiful. Butch spots Phillip standing at the entrance to the living room with the bag. He takes it from the boy, empties the contents -- candy, cookies, bread, sugar and all -- and picks up the rope, takes Mack's Barlow knife from his pocket and cuts off a long shank. Butch takes the rope and begins to tie up the three. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Phillip) You can go wait in the car or you can watch. Yer' old enough to think for yer'self. Phillip, unsure what to do, stands his ground. 
 Shut yer' eyes, Cleve. Mack, you and Lottie hold the boy tight. Shut yer' eyes, too. Phillip, awkwardly aware that he's going to witness an execution, starts to cry out, then squelches himself. Butch seems to be in another world now -- taken to another place and time. A slight smile finds its way to his face, then disappears. 
 Please, mistah', ain't no use in it. 
 We'll give you ever'thing we got! But Butch doesn't even hear the words. He slowly opens his eyes, pulls his chin from the pistol barrel and points it at Mack. 
 Our Father, which are in heaven, Hallo be thy name... 
 (to Lottie) Shhh... shhh... shhh... 
 ... Thy Kingdom come, Lawd, thy will be done... here on Earth as it is in Heaven. (CONTINUED) 
 Shhh.. shhh... 
 (to Mack/Cleve) Say it wif' me.... Butch looks to Phillip in a strange way, sets the gun on the floor between them, and crawls amongst the candy, gum and wrappers until he finds the electrician's tape. Phillip watches, not knowing what to do. The revolver -- cocked, resting on the floor. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH His expression is blank -- then a slight smile. For a second it's as if none of this has happened, that Butch will grasp Phillip in his arms... A DEAFENING GUNBLAST turns his expression to blank. Phillip, knocked to the floor by the revolver's kick, recovers to his knees, shaking like a leaf. The MAMBO RECORD comes to an END, but SCRATCHES ON AD 
. Butch falls back to his knees, still staring at Phillip. He looks at his stomach, where a stain of brown-red gushes through his T-shirt, and back to the boy. 
 (as if he hasn't seen him in years) Phillip?.... (CONTINUED) 
 Thanks for yer' hospitality. And walks away. 187   EXT. HOUSE - DAY                                             187 
 (to the horizon) Phillip?!... No answer. He drags himself to the station wagon and, with much effort, slides himself into the seat. No keys. He opens the door, crawls out, leaving a trail of blood, looks out to the road and starts to walk. 
 runs down the road, looking back every so often to see if Butch is following (CONTINUED) 
 makes his way onto the private dirt and starts walking back toward the main road. 
 (yelling) Phillip?!! I won't hurt ya', I swear! 
 is running out of steam on the road ahead.   He stops for a blow and looks back. 
 
 What the hell?... HIS POV - PHILLIP 
 pulls into Mack's place, and Arch gets out, peers into the station wagon, sees blood, grimaces and walks up to the house. He notices a dripping trail of blood on the porch. 
 Mack?... Lottie?... Arch enters the living room and stops when he sees Mack and family, still gagged and tied to the chairs. 190   EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 190 Butch, holding his side, the pain is worse as he stumbles along. He stops when he spots something -- a piece of white costume on the fence. He crosses the ditch, steps through the fence and walks in the same direction Phillip did. 
 That was a helluva' thing to do, Phillip. You're a hero. Prolly' be in all the papers tomorrow, how you saved those folks. Truth is, I don't think I woulda' killed 'em. I only killed two people in my whole life. One hurt my mama and one hurt you. 191   INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - DAY                                191 Adler listens in on the shortwave. 
 (V.O.) A town called Happy, over in Swisher County. RED (to Jones) How far? 
 Half-hour tops. RED (to Adler) Get on the radio and tell whoever gets there first to play it nice and easy. Sally gives him a look. 
 (V.O.) They've got the boy's mother flyin' in on a private. You want her on standby? (CONTINUED) 
 Guvner, I assume. SALLY Not a bad idea. RED Go ahead and chopper her in. After a moment of silence, Sally turns to Red. SALLY I didn't mean to pry last night. RED Yes, ya did. SALLY Look, Red, it was 20 years ago. RED Funny thing. When the judge sent him away the kid stared at me. Like he knew. Not hard or mad like you'd expect. It was... It was like he was forgiving me. SALLY Forgiving you for what?! For looking at the facts and doing what you thought was right? RED Naw.   For what's gonna happen today. 
 What say we talk this over? Settle things man to man. Then we can be on our way. I'll even let you drive. Knock that right off yer' list. How'd that be? 
 finally arrives at the creek, looking over   his shoulder all the way. He looks at the water -- deep and    running swift. Where to go? He decides and heads for the    nearest tree -- a big oak, and shimmies up to a branch ten   feet or so above the ground. 
 That's his car. Took off on foot. He's got a pistol. Mack says it looks like a .38. 194   EXT. FIELD - DAY                                              194 Butch stops to rest.   Something catches his eye. 
 
 Alaska, Phillip.     Wild and wooley. Man against nature.     Me personally, I like them odds. (beat) Did I tell you my   daddy lives there? He's the one that   sent the picture postcard. Listen    here to what he says about it... Butch pulls the postcard from his back pocket and reads... 
 (reading) 'Dear Robert'... that's my real name, Phillip. Robert. Jus' like old Bob the family man. 'Dear Robert, I just wanted to tell you that me leaving has nothing to do with you.' Phillip, still afraid, can't help but listen as Butch suffers through his memories. 
 (reading) 'Alaska is a beautiful place.    Colder than hell most all the time. (MORE) 
 BUTCH (CONT'D) Someday you can come and visit and we'll maybe get to know each other better.' Short and sweet. That's the old man's style. 'Cold all the time' -- like that's a big sellin' point. He laughs to himself. 
 He useta' pat me on the head and tell folks 'that it's some that can live life without askin' about it and it's others has to know why, and this boy here is one of the latters.' (beat) That's why I wanted to go up there. To visit the old man, I guess. Prolly' punch him one first, but then maybe we'd end up bein' friends, sit down, have a beer, talk things over.... Butch groans. He pulls his hand from his side. Blood is oozing all over the place. He returns the postcard to his pocket. 
 We'll jus' rest awhile. Then you can make up yer' mind. How's that? Phillip, still clinging to the tree, can't help but feel compassion for his friend. 195   EXT. MACK'S HOUSE - DAY                                      195 A dozen Highway Patrol cars now sit in the driveway. The Fed in charge, AGENT HENDRICKS, assigns different officers to secure the area in an incredibly organized fashion. Mack, Lottie, Cleve and Arch watch from the porch. 196   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                         196 Butch's eyes are closed. A small puddle of blood drips and becomes a rivulet running down into the creek. Phillip, still in the tree, still watching, can't bear it any longer. He slowly climbs down and drops next to Butch, who opens his eyes to the boy and smiles. 
 One thing's for sure now -- I definitely believe in ghosts. (beat) Never been shot before. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm sorry. 
 I know ya' are. Truth is, if it had to happen, I'm glad it was you. As opposed to someone I don't know, I mean. All things considered, I feel pretty good, though. Could use a beer, though. 
 What's beer taste like? 
 Oh, it's about the best thing there is. You'd better put that on the list. Phillip's eye catches something.     He stands up fearfully... HIS POV - TWO MORE PATROL CARS lights spinning, rushing down the road, kicking up dust. 197   INT./EXT. RED'S PATROL CAR - DAY                              197 Sally watches Red. When the car comes to a stop, she reaches out and touches his arm. SALLY I think our chances of this thing ending peacefully are good. He smiles a lonesome smile, opens the door and exits. 198   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                          198 
 You better run. 
 Naw, Phillip, I need me a time machine with a loud radio to take me where I'm goin'. Walkin's for squares. 199   EXT. MACK'S HOUSE - DAY                                       199 Red exits his patrol car, followed by Sally.     Agent Hendricks walks up. 
 Garnett, I'm Tom Hendricks, F.B.I., out of the Amarillo office. I understand you have one of our men with you? (CONTINUED) 
 Water tight. Like a frog's pussy. (notices Sally) Sorry, ma'am. SALLY No doubt an observation based on personal experience. Red can't help but smile. RED You got him spotted? 
 By the creek, half-mile down the road. I spaced officers in a circle around them 100 yards or so away. RED You got any problem with me handling this one? 
 What say we both handle it? Red sighs. RED Let's head on down there.     Bradley, gimme' a megaphone. 
 One other thing, Chief. Haynes is wounded. The boy gut-shot him. RED Yer' shittin' me. 200   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                          200 Phillip scoops a handful of water and brings it to Butch, who opens his mouth and drinks, A megaphoned voice interrupts... RED (V.O.) (through megaphone) Butch, this is Red Garnett of the Texas State Police. A thin, knowing smile crosses Butch's lips. (CONTINUED) 
 (yelling back) All this for me. I'm touched, but I'm afraid ya'll gonna' have to back it up a step or two. I'm headed to Mexico. (to Phillip) Lyin' to 'em, of course. 201   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                        201 
 (to Phillip) Beer. What'd I tell ya'. (to Red) Appreciate the offer, Cap'n, but ya' know I can't do that. If you and yer' pals back outta' here, I'll drop the boy at the border. (beat) If you don't I'll shoot him in the head. I mean it! Phillip, betrayed beyond comprehension, stares at Butch. 
 (to Phillip) Don't look at me like that. I don't even have a gun. What did ya' do with the pistola' anyway? 
 Threw it in the well. 
 Good thinkin'. 
 Ya' think he means it? Red mulls it over, replaces his old chaw with a fresh one and looks to Sally. RED What do you think? SALLY Based on what's happened the past two days I don't think he would. RED One thing's for sure. If he gets outta' here with the boy, we're right back to where we started. 
 If he kills the boy he'll get the chair. 
 Shit, he'll get the chair anyway.   He's killed two in two days. SALLY We don't know that he pulled the trigger on either of the innocent victims. 
 Well he wasn't at home in his Strat-O- Lounger. 'Sides, who killed Pugh? Casper? RED All right, both of you, that's enough! From the trail of blood I got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now. Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and goes straight to Hendricks. 
 Where ya' want me, sir? RED Can you shoot off a hood? Bobby Lee nods. In the b.g., a HELICOPTER circles, preparing to land. (CONTINUED) 
 That'd be the boy's mother. RED Bring her on over. 204   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                         204 Butch and Phillip watch the helicopter land. 
 See, Phillip, dreams do come true. There's yer' rocketship. 
 Think I'll get to ride it? 
 Today's the day. RED (V.O.) (megaphoned) Butch, we got the boy's Mama here. She wants to say something. Phillip is visibly stunned by the news. He crawls up to the crest of the creekside and squints, looking for his mom. 
 What's wrong, Phillip? 
 It's my mama. Phillip still cranes his neck to see. 
 Now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit, do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r' treat? 
 (better than none) I got to do one house. Butch smiles.   He has an idea. 
 Put yer' mask back on. 205   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          205 Bobby Lee carefully unsnaps the latches on his leather case and opens it on the hood of the patrol car. (CONTINUED) 
 (into megaphone) Hullo... Hullo. Please, sir, he's my only son. I'll give you money, whatever I can. Please, I want to take my boy home! I want to... The MEGAPHONE SQUALKS one final dying time and SHORTS OUT. Red hands it to Bradley, who immediately sets it on the trunk and starts taking it apart. RED (to Gladys) Yer' doin' fine. We'll get another one. 
 I think yer' tobacco spit shorted it out, Red. 206   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                          206 Phillip wears the mask.   Butch dusts him off and smiles. 
 You ready to go home? (CONTINUED) 
 (very sure) Yeahsir. 
 (yells) Hey, Cap'n, you got any candy? INTERCUT BACK and FORTH BETWEEN Butch and: RED 
 (re: megaphone) This one's shot. 
 (yells) Candy! Halloween candy! Popcorn balls, caramel apples, gum, shit like that?! RED (yells) You hungry? 
 (yells) You find me some candy and I'll deliver up a ghost. RED (to Adler) You heard him. 207   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                           207 Red nods to Adler who starts to gather sticks of gum, mints, anything from the surrounding officers. 
 Don't have another megaphone, Chief. Red just shakes his head and sighs. Bobby Lee leans on the hood of the car and places one eye behind the scope of his rifle. (CONTINUED) 
 You say when, I'll say dead. Red glares at Bobby Lee for an extended moment. RED (yells; to Butch) You got yer'self a deal. Candy's waitin'. 208   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                           208 
 (yells) One more thing. His old lady has to swear to take him trick r 'treatin' every year. Phillip strains to look for his mom.    He's upset, ready to leave. 
 Gimme' yer' list, Phillip. 
 Butch?... 
 Gimme that list. Phillip pulls it out. Butch snatches it and reads it to himself, laughing. He's on a death roll of sorts, between losing blood and being in an impossible situation he almost seems to be enjoying the macabre scenario as it unfolds. Phillip, on the other hand, is beginning to sob. 
 (yells) And she's gotta promise to take him to the fair for rollercoasters and cotton candy whenever he wants... or at least once a year... 
 I wanna' go home!... 
 (checks list; yells) And when he gets older he gets to drink beer... (CONTINUED) 
 I don't need beer!... 
 (to Phillip) Well it's on yer' list. (yells to Red) And to go out on dates with girls! (to Phillip) Not on the list, but you'll thank me later for that little addition. (checks list) Done that, got to drive, gonna' ride that rocketship. That's about it. (yells; to Red) She's gotta' promise or I won't let him go! 
 I wanna' go home, Butch. My mama's not bad! She gives me those things. 
 Don't kid a kidder, Phillip. 209   EXT. ROADSIDE -DAY                                           209 Red, exasperated, he can't believe how weird this has gotten. RED (yells) It's a deal! 
 (yells) Make her say it! Red looks to Gladys as if to say, "go ahead".   She seems reluctant. Red's frustration is showing. 210   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                         210 Phillip is near tears. He rises and starts to move for the field, but Butch grabs him with one arm, pulls him close and holds him like he's his own child. 
 I jus' wanna' go home. 
 (sincere) Know jus' how ya' feel, Phillip. 
 (to Red) Phillip knows those things are against our beliefs. RED (to Gladys) What kinda' foolishness is that? (yells) She promises! 
 (yells) Make her say it! 
 (yells) I promise! 212   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                        212 
 (to Phillip) Can we trust her? 
 She's a real good mama. Butch reaches into his pocket, extracts the remaining wad of stolen bills, unzips the Casper outfit, stuffs them into the costume and rezips. 
 (to Phillip) When you get home, hide this. If she's lyin' you can buy yer' own damn beer. Phillip quiets for a moment and stares at Butch. 
 Yer' not bad, are you, Butch? 
 Yeah. (beat) Now, Buzz, listen here. I want ya' to step out there real slow, keepin' yer' paws in the air. Then strut right over to them cops and yell 'trick r' treat.' Got it? (CONTINUED) 
 What are you gonna' do? 
 Somethin'll come to mind. Butch sticks out his hand.    Phillip shakes it, afraid. 
 'Bye, Phillip.    It's been one helluva' ride. Butch nods and smiles. 
 (yells) All right, Cap'n. Make way for Casper the friendly ghost. The friendliest ghost I know. Butch nudges Phillip and the boy starts toward the field. 213   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            213 Adler, looking through binoculars, can't help but smile. RED Gimme' them things. Adler hands over the binoculars.    Red takes a look. HIS POV - PHILLIP nee Casper, walking in his full whitehood, arms reaching for the sky. 
 Personally I think we negotiated a pretty fair deal, but if there's somethin' else you want... 
 (disbelief) Do they want to shoot you? Butch starts to lie to the boy but can't. 219   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          219 A finger strokes the trigger of a high-powered rifle. Bobby Lee -- Smiling, ready, waiting. Red shrugs and wipes his brow. (CONTINUED) 
 He thought better of releasin' the hostage. SALLY It doesn't necessarily mean that. RED (to Bobby Lee) Stay on ready. 220   EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY                                           220 Phillip holds his hand out and helps Butch get up. Butch stands, dusts himself off, grabs the boy's hand and to- gether they walk toward the field. 
 What's he up to? RED Hell if I know. 
 Keep in mind -- he still has the gun. RED (yells; to Butch) Butch! Stop and let the boy go! Put yer' hands up and let the boy go!!! (NOTE:   AD LIB instructions from Red continue as well.) 
 So I guess that's it for Alaska, Phillip. 225   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                            225 RED Stop and put your hands on your head! 
 Run, Phillip!   Come here, Phillip! SALLY (to herself) Come on, come on... 
 (a warning) Chief, we've got an armed killer and an innocent boy out there. RED (to Bobby Lee) You clean? 
 As a whistle. RED Keep him locked down.    Don't squeeze til' I say 'when.' Red holds Bobby Lee's eyes until the young Fed nods.    Then Red unstraps his holster and moves between the cars. 
 Where the hell you going? But Red's not listening, just walking, long and tall, into the field. EXT. FIELD - DAY Butch and Phillip continue to walk, Butch holding Phillip's hand. When Butch spots Red approaching he slows and then stops. Red shows his palms and keeps walking toward them.     When he gets within 25 feet he stops. RED I'm unarmed.    Toss your gun on the ground. (CONTINUED) 
 If I had a pistola I'd be headed the other direction. My partner here got rid of the evidence. (beat) Do I know you, friend? RED No... not really. 
 Hmm. Well, look I wanna' talk to the boy and then we'll take care of bidness. How's that? Only take a second. Red nods then looks over his shoulder at the patrol cars lined up like a wagon train, guns aimed, Bobby Lee peering through the scope of his rifle. 226   NEW ANGLE                                                    226 Butch and Phillip. 
 I wanna' give ya' somethin'. 227   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          227 
 He's stopped. 
 He's gonna make a run for it. 
 (to Bobby Lee) Hold him! SALLY (yells) Let the boy go, Butch! 
 (to Bobby Lee) If he makes a move... 
 Mebe' someday you'll get to go... 229   EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY                                          229 Hendricks looks through the binocs. 
 He's goin' for his weapon! 
 
 Red squints to make out what Butch's reaching for. 
 Butch smiles as he retrieves the POSTCARD from his pocket. BACK TO SCENE A look of concern crosses Red's lips... 
 Sally realizes it's not a gun that Butch is reaching for. SALLY Noooooo...!!!! 
 Butch's chest explodes when the bullet hits him. He rocks backwards, still on his knees... and looks at Phillip in amazement. Phillip screams, grabs Butch and holds him up. THROUGH CROSSHAIRS OF GUN Phillip is obscuring a second shot at Butch. 
 tastes blood and sighs. (CONTINUED) 
 Damn, Buzz, shot twice in the same day. He collapses and falls into Phillip's arms. Phillip backs away two steps and falls to his knees. Butch wavers for a second then topples on his back. Phillip moans, sobs, as he watches Butch, the GUNSHOT still ECHOING. 
 Gladys runs from behind the car, followed by a host of officers. 
 Keep everybody back! Bobby Lee stands, lowers his rifle disengages and smiles at Hendricks. 
 No need to worry.     He can't hurt nobody now. 
 Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk. 
 (calls back) No weapon, Chief! Red "comes to," turns and walks toward the... 
 Red walks   up to Bobby Lee, stops and stares at the grinning marksman.    After a beat, Red turns then nearly jumps out of shoes with   a sudden right cross that floors the younger man. Red starts   to jump in for more but Hendricks, stunned, jumps in, grabs   Red and, joined by four other Officers, holds the older man   back. Shouting, i.e. "Hey, hey, Red, whoa, whoa!" Red settles a bit. Hendricks turns to Bobby Lee who rises to one knee and wipes at a bloody lip, and then to Red who is still breathing hard. 
 What the hell was that all about?! RED I didn't say 'when.' (CONTINUED) 
 (to no one/everyone) Goddammit!! Adler catches up to Red.   He stares at his old friend and boss as they walk along. 
 I thought he had a gun, too, Red.   There was just no way of knowin'. Red doesn't even look at Adler, just keeps walking.    Adler stops, his eyes following Red. Sally, nearby, watches Red walk away. 
 is helped to his feet by his mother. She holds him dearly to her chest. He hugs back just as hard, his blood-stained Casper outfit staining her blouse. She unzips the costume and dollar bills fly all around. She starts to lead Phillip off but he won't leave until... He pulls the postcard from Butch's hand. 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Staring down at Butch. 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH His eyes flutter a bit with recognition. 
 as it lifts off and speeds away.    As it wipes the sun... 
 CLOSEUP - BUTCH A slight smile crosses his dying face as he squints to see Phillip's flight. 
 CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Nose pressed against the glass bubble. 
 His eyes don't close, still squinted but frozen. 
 CLOSEUP - EYES We realize now, are lifeless. 
 continues its flight past the sun. 
 
