 Are You a Man Can you Kill 
. 
. Go To War Today. Shot of spade treading past A.'s back, as he reads. 
 the, you've been back from 
 -- scuro . . . and in the zoo it takes two days to say. the only word that matters in the language . . . it's in Eden . . .. A. walking down a street hooded with construction On the wall painted in red are timber, the walls in blue. the words, Freedcm for Greece! Alx:      (concluding) Out on the ocean (slow shot of ocean late just before the sunset) when it is green and desolate and cold, and the big waves come up (slow shot of Seagreen blue waves rising and falling) out of the emotion. water,       Thrashing on the skull . . . I dip my face inwards (Camera panning to an anonymous youth floating by himself in the water) and float my starved eyes on the wide window of the sea.       And lull my eyesockets to a wide-eyed sleep . . . strange sample of the sea, transfusing the spark of ingenuity 
 Time and place and worlds have changed. has been unreal, frightening.     Here a much more relaxed primitive world -- that of snakes, slow quiet, but suddenly Anthony moves very fast, very violent, and very dangerous. from the Fear of the Cat into the Dream of the Snake. He And never for- will be bitten by it, and he will kill it. getting it, will journey on into the final, deep-sea world of silence.    Then Freedom. A, has gone to the East to fight with the mercenary He's part soldiers against the wild tribes of the Forest. of a small detachment of fifteen-twenty men resting deep . in the jungle-forest of a small old abandoned Buddhist temple.   The relics are broken, the statues on the floor, mixed with the mercenaries' light individual equipment -- 
 tit fades) Camera to Adams examinging a photograph of his girl at home, who is fat, his voice off: I miss you baby .., I miss you so 
. 
 A. Love, Life itself, is just a Dream. Dreams, Dreams are Feelings.                              Dream is Freedom is Dream. Freedom.    Anthony dreams on, makes movies, and in his He's free. dream/in his life, he leaves Prison. 
. say a little prayer for you. portion of the song.                          A   approaching Cut to silence. closer, zooming out from him to catch him with machine gun in his gloves.                                Rlow Up of Joanna on Stopping.   Close up. the cover of a magazine, the title of the magaiine in large letters CINEPTA. 
 They set me free and I wandered into the City. 
 JOnali : 
! I at the bottom of the ocean's floor . . . for this? swallowed sleeping did my very best.        I opened moons.   I 
 2) 
 3) .. 
 4) 
 5) 6)   Alexander 
 7) 
 8) 
 9) 
 10) 
 11) 
 12) 
 13) 
 14) 
 15) These shots fade very quickly into one another. 
 [Reversing Time) The stills starting to move with the purr of the camera 1) Isaac at the Temple in front of Buddha slicing the snake's head off, fading into 2) Buddha with the living snake crawling through his arms, fading into 
 the An offscreen voice, loud and distant, the guard calling "Darnell! .., Anthony        Darnell! 17) The guard walking down the corridor, calling, fading into An off-screen voice (the guard's): Tell him he's wanted 18) Joanna and Isaac bendingoverAnthony              at the stream, nursing him 
 3Ielt . 
