 
 (into cell) God dammit Cathy I have no time for this crap! I'm supposed to be at the premiere of STAB 2 right Now, arm and arm with my girlfriend cause she's got a bit part in that over advertised piece of shit and I'm just going to humor her. You mena to tell me that in all your squandering the best you can do for me is A bit role in STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO?! Come on! It's just another cheap slasher flick! How dare you offer me such a role! I've done Shakespeare! I've worked with directors like DePalma and Scorcesse and you offer me this crap?! It's insulting. I should fire you and go to ICM. 
(O.S.) (off phone) Ben, I will not sit around and listen to you bad mouth me! Without me you would've never gotten as famous as you are today. The least you can do is show me a little god damn respect. 
 (into phone) You want Respect, Cathy? Here's your respect. FUCK YOU! You're fired. (Ben hangs up) Unfucking believable. 
 Stab 3: Return To Woodsboro. Pah. What's next, Friday The 13TH PART 15: JASON DOES BROADWAY? 
 (into phone) What's up, B.D. with the B.D. 
 WOMAN'S VOICE (off phone) Hardly as large as I'd like it to be. 
 Christine? 
(O.S.) No, Jennifer Love Hewitt. Of course it's me, silly. And I feel like an ass standing in this theater lobby all by myself. Where are you babe, the movie starts in twenty minutes. 
 Look, I'm stuck on the freeway. I think there was some big accident. It could be a little while so I don't want you to start freaking if I don't get there at exactly, (checks watch) Eight thirty. 
(O.S.) All I'm saying is I'm gonna be royally p.o.'d if you don't catch my acting debut. 
 (putting up faux-enthusiasm) Oh I wouldn't miss it for the world. I bet you did such a great job. 
(O.S.) I did. Hon, although I got a total of six minutes screen time, they're the best six minutes of the movie. 
 Heh heh I bet they are babe. I bet they are. Look, my battery's dying . . . 
(O.S.) Alright Hon, talk to you when the lights go down. 
 Sure thing. 
 (startled) Jesus. (answers call) Hello? 
 Hello. 
 Who is this? 
 Who is this? 
 Well what number are you trying to reach? 
 I don't know. 
 I think you got the wrong number, buddy. 
 Do I? 
 (peeved) Uh-huh. Look bro, my battery is running out. Really wish I could chat, but I can't so, later. 
 Wait, wait. Don't hang up. 
 (angrily) Asshole, Can't talk. 
 But your voice sounds so familiar. 
 Does it now? 
 You almost sound like that guy from THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT CARRIE. Ben. Ben Damon. 
 (smiling profusely) Well ya got me. That's me. I'm Ben Damon. 
 Really? You're such a talented actor. 
 (loves the praise) Thanks. 
 Now let's see you act your way out of this one. 
 What do you mean? 
 I mean, I'm standing right outside the LADIES ROOM door at the PLAZA THEATER. Your girlfriend Christine is in there.  She's all alone. Everyone's in the auditorium waiting for the film to start. (laughs coldly) I've got my knife. 
 (turning pale) Listen you sick fuck, is this your idea of a joke? 
 More of a game really. 
 What kind of a game? 
 You seem to be familiar with the STAB movies. Here's how we play. I ask you a question. You get it right, your girlfriend lives. You answer wrong, she dies. 
 I swear to God if you lay a finger on her I'll fucking kill you! 
 Maybe so, but right now, we play the game. First question, Your girlfriend's counting on you, Name your girlfriend's character in STAB 2? 
 Come on. Don't you know? 
 (hesitating) It's CICI! Cici's the name of the character she plays in the movie! 
 Very good. Now we play ROUND 2. 
 What?! But I did everything you said to do! 
 That's right. And you beat ROUND 1. Now we're taking the game to a whole new level.  Meet me beneath the Hollywood sign in ten minutes. I'll have your girlfriend. We'll be waiting. 
 What?! 
 Good bye Ben. 
 (off phone) Due to the high volume of calls this evening, Dispatch is temporarily shut down. If this is not a real emergency please call another dep- 
 You're not playing by the rules Ben. Don't you want her to live? 
 I swear to God if you lay one hand on her! 
 No! You listen to me, if you're not where I want you in fifteen minutes I'll hollow her out. Do you understand? 
 (to himself) Thank God I decided to do some community service. 
 (into phone) Yeah. 
 Very good. You follow directions well. Now for the final part of the game. Put down the bat and approach the sign, slowly. 
 (into phone) Where are you? 
 Closer than you think. 
 (into phone) Alright I'm here. What the fuck do you want from me? 
 To see your reaction. 
 Reaction to what? 
 
 OHMYGOD! NO! 
 -- 
 (screaming) BUT I'M THE KILLER IN STAB 3! 
 Good morning Hollywood. And today officially starts the Summer movie season. Opening the box office this week is Jeff Bridges and Tim Robins in Arlington Street,  Eugene Levy and Jason Biggs in American Pastry, and Tori Spelling and David Schwimmer in STAB 2, based off my best selling book the WINDSOR MURDERS. 
 Well I see a lot of the audience has dressed to the occasion. Today we have director of the upcoming STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO, Roman Bridger. Why don't we give Mr. Bridger a nice welcome to the set of Total Entertainment. 
 Good morning Gale. Pleasure to be here. 
 It's a pleasure to finally meet you, Roman. 
 (addressing audience) Well it's a honor to be here amongst so many fans of the genre. And I must say that any of you worried that Jerry Rapp, or Tori or David not returning to complete the STAB trilogy, have no fear, Roman is here. Aided with my excellent cast of newcomers I believe we're going to pull off one of the best Stabs yet. 
 Roman, from your enthusiasm it certainly seems that way. (a beat) Honestly though, (smiles) tell us, what's	your favorite scary movie? 
 (a long pause) Honestly, my life. 
 Your life? 
 Well if you were in my shoes, dealing with those big Time Sunrise Studio producers like I do on a daily basis, you'd watch how quick your life goes from a Walt Disney picture to a Tobe Hooper flick. 
 Would you excuse me for a moment? 
 (smiling) Sure. 
 Jesus Christ you scared the shit out of me. 
 I'm sorry Miss Weathers. Allow me to introduce myself, MARK KINCAID, L.A.P.D. (flashes badge) Are you familiar with the actor Ben Damon, or the actress CHRISTINE PERKINS? 
 Well I interviewed Damon once for the show. He was a real obnoxious fuck. Any way, the second one, Christine Perkins, she had a part in Stab 2, didn't she? She was playing CICI. 
 Both of them were found brutally murdered this morning under the Hollywood sign. Autopsy reports having come back to me yet but the bodies looked like something out one of the Stab films. 
 So is that why you're here? Is that why you're holding me from my show, to tell me about some brutal homicide I'm not even involved in? 
 I wish that was all Miss Weathers, but there's more. The killer left a note. 
 A note? 
(O.S.) That's Sidney Prescott's mother. 
(O.S.) There's more. 
 I've tried to get in touch with Sidney Prescott, but she's keeping herself very well hidden. You're my one and only hope in finding her. Her life may be in grave danger. 
 I'd love to help, really I wouldn't mind being sliced at again by a maniacal psychopath, but I honestly don't know where Sidney is. After Windsor she dropped off the face of the Earth. The only other person that might know is, (gale hesitates), not going to talk. 
 And who would that be? 
 Hey Dew, did you hear? 
 No, what? 
 Somebody iced Ben Damon and his girlfriend. 
 That's Hollywood Tom. One day you're making movies in the hills, the next day you're posing for the coroner downtown on a slab. 
 Goddamnit I am getting so fed up with these re-writes. It's like every five minutes there's a new script. God, and you just know this all because of STAB 2's script winding up on the internet two months after it wrapped shooting. 
 And still the film is Number One at the box office this weekend. Beat out American Pasty and Arlington Street. 
 I think Jeff Bridges is getting tired. 
 Nah I think it's doing so damn well because one of it's players got iced. I just hope none of us end up dead. 
 Oh that's right. Those poor poor people. God Ben Damon was such a hottie. 
 (sighs) And that CICI chick wasn't that bad either but I'm really concerned about my safety now. 
 What are you talking about? The murders were a completely isolated incident. 
 (reading from script) SCENE 32. INT. CANDY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT. "What are you talking about Ricky, the murders were a completely isolated incident". 
 Would you give that script a rest? It's like a friggen umbilical cord to you. 
 I'm just saying, though. What if there's someone out there stalking actors? Huh? Then what? 
 There's always someone out there stalking actors. Look at that woman from the Commish. 
 Melinda McGraw? 
 No, the other one. The one who played his wife. 
 I know who you're talking about. Rebecca something. 
 Yeah I think. Anyway, point is, she had a stalker. Sonny Bono had a stalker. David Letterman had one too. So did Heather Langenkamp, Brooke Sheilds, Jody Foster, -- 
 Listen Miss ingénue, your cheering me up to much, Give it a break. 
 What? What'd I do? Relax your crack sweetheart I didn't rip those two fucks up last night. Jeez. (lights up a smoke) So what are you doing tonight? 
 Talk about moody. 
 And how about you good looking? Got any plans for later? 
 Eww yeah, finding a guy to have sex with that doesn't look like you. 
 Oh no. I ain't into that shit. 
 Déjr vu-do. 
(O.S.) Well well, someone dies and Gale Weathers comes running. What a shock. 
 Mr. Rielly? My name is Mark Kincaid. I'm with the L.A.P.D. Are you aware	of last night's Events? 
 Yeah. A real tragedy. 
 Dewey, personal lives and pasts aside, this is about Sidney. We need to know where she is. 
 What so you can just exploit her again with another book? Sid doesn't need you Gale. 
 (to Kincaid) Show him. 
 Mr. Rielly, this was found alongside the bodies of Ben and his girlfriend. 
 I promised Sid I'd keep her in seclusion. I promised her nobody would ever find her. If you don't mind Detective, I'd like to approach her with this on my own and see what she'd like to do about it. 
 That's fine Mr. Rielly, but if anyone else should die, I'm going to have to get a warrant. 
 Understood. (a beat) If you'll excuse me Detective. (coldly) Gale. 
 I'm going to have a little chat with the producers. Don't wander off. I may need you. 
(O.S.) GALE WEATHERS! Oh my God! 
 (excitedly) 
! 
 I can assure you that security on the set will be at an all time high. Again, the deaths are sheer tragedy. 
 Well, I'd hate to see the production shut down. (laughs) I myself am a big STAB fan. 
 Really? (smiles) Have you ever thought about acting? You've got just the right face. 
 I am kind of dedicated to my job. Although I do enjoy taking acting classes on my weekends. I grew up around these studios anyway. I know my way around. My Uncle was a screenwriter for PARAMOUNT. 
 Really, what was his name? 
 Excuse me Detective, I think we have some business to attend to. 
 (flabbergasted) GALE WEATHERS?! What are you doing here? No press on the set! (to security) No press, no press on set! Get that woman out of here. 
 (approaching) Yes, Mr. Milton. 
 No, Mr. Milton, Miss Weathers is with me. 
 Well then, I guess I'll be leaving then. 
 Oh come on! Why the hostility? 
 Listen Lois Lane, I love your show and all but last month I happened to catch your little segment on me and how my wife left me because I'm a sex addict who enjoys screwing fifteen year old girls. It was a real eye opener my lawyers are still thinking about bringing to your superior's attentions. 
 (shit-eating smile on her face) They're the ones who approved it. 
 Alright Kincaid, no where to? 
 I go to the police station and do my job, and you go back to being Gale Weathers. 
 Oh. I thought you wanted me to stick around. 
 Look, Miss Weathers, if there's a problem, give me a call. Here's my card. I'm always there. 
 Shit. Can I even get a ride home? 
 -- 
 (crying) Mom! 
 (into headset) This is Laura in Monterey reporting in for work. 
(O.S.) Alright Laura I'll patch you right in to a call. 
 Thanks. 
(O.S.) Hello? 
 Yes, hi I'm Laura, I'm a trained counselor. How can I help you. 
(O.S.) Laura I think I just killed somebody. 
 Are you sure? 
(O.S.) Uh-huh I'm sure. I've killed someone! OH MY GOD I'VE ACTUALLY KILLED SOMEONE! 
 Well then the people you need to call are the police. 
(O.S.) No I need to call you. Just you. 
 I'm sorry, your voice. 
(O.S.) Don't you want to know how you can help, Sidney? (a beat, Sid goes blank) Are you listening to me, huh? 
 Who the fuck is this? 
(O.S.) It's mother, Sidney, now be a good girl and turn on the news. DO IT! 
 The mutilated bodies were discovered late last night by the L.A.P.D, prominent actor Ben Damon was slated for a role in the upcoming STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO -- 
 Do you think it's over Sidney? Do you? 
 W-what do you want? 
 I want to finish what I started. I want to finish the game. 
 You sick fuck I'm tracing this call as we speak! The police are gonna nail your ass! 
 (laughs coldly) Let them try. You'll never find me. I've already gotten away with murder before. For instance, Maureen Prescott. 
 (tears welling) No. You didn't kill my mother. Billy Loomis and Stu Macher did. 
 Heh. So you think Sidney. So you think. It's all been building up to this Sid. Every STAB. Every SCREAM. Every ounce of blood that's been spilled has all been leading up to this moment. WELCOME TOTHE FINAL ACT. 
 The final act? Well let's play asshole! 
 No. We play in my court this time. Come to Hollywood. STAB 3's going to cutting corners cast-wise.  And I've got my eyes set on a technical advisor named Dewey Rielly. 
 (crying) If you lay a hand on him I'll fucking kill you! 
 Great. A spirited one. I'll be seeing you real soon Sidney. Real soon. 
 STAB 3. Oh God I've gotta get myself a better agent. 
 (calling out) Anybody home? 
 Doubt that. (door slams shut O.S.) Anyone here? 
 Stan! My man does great work. 
 Thank you. Thank you very much. 
 Fuck you very much! Tyson go to hell! What the hell are you doing here? Where's Roman? 
 Roman and everybody else went home for the night. I'm here for a make-up test. 
 Make-up. You need it. (a beat) Hey, Roman isn't here? 
 No. 
 Damn. He called my roommate and told her he had some important things he wanted to go over with me in his office tonight. 
 (jokingly) Yeah I bet. 
 (reading inscription) For the honorary field of directing and cinematography in music videos. How to the point. 
 Oh shit. (into phone) Hello? Director's office. 
 Sarah, it's Roman, I'm sorry I'm running late, I'm still on the 405, I'm about 10 minutes away. 
 Oh it's no problem, I'm just... looking at your   music video awards. 
 All right, since I got you on the phone, let's talk about your character. 
 What character?  I'm Candy, the chick who gets killed second.  I'm only in two scenes! 
 You're not happy with your part. 
 I'm not happy that I'm 35 playing a 21 year old. I'm not happy that I have to die naked!  And I'm not happy that my character is too stupid not to have a gun in the house after her boyfriend's been cut into McNuggets. 
 Um hmm...  umhmm great, so let's run the lines. 
 Huh, fine. 
 Page 22, Candy's big moment. 
 Page 22..  Ring ring.  Hello? 
 Hello. 
 Who's this? 
 Who's this? 
 This is Candy.  Hang on, let me get some clothes. See!  I don't' understand why I have to start the scene in the shower!  The whole shower things been done, 'Vertigo' hello!  And I mean, my boyfriend just died, why am I showering? 
 Why don't we just read the scene?  Candy, is that like candy cane or candy apple? 
 Whatever.  Come on, who is this?  I think you have the wrong number. 
 But you know my favorite name? 
 I'm hanging up right now. 
 It's Sarah. 
 Roman that's not the line. 
 It is in my script. 
 Has there been another goddamn rewrite? How  the fuck are we supposed to learn our lines when there's a new script every 15 minutes? 
 It's not just a new script, it's a new movie. 
 What?  What movie? 
 My movie. 
 It's called, Sarah gets sliced like a fucking pig. Still in character, Sarah? 
 Mr. Bridger? 
 Shit. 
 (screaming) No! No! Noooo! 
. 
 That's STAB 3, Miss Weathers. It looks like we're going to be getting a warrant to speak with Miss Prescott anyway. 
 Shit. Sarah Darling. (a beat) I interviewed her too. God, it's happening again isn't it Detective? 
 Yes well we have a suspect, so don't get that worried. 
 Who? 
 I'm not at liberty to tell you that Miss Weathers. You're no longer working with the L.A.P.D. I don't even know why you're standing in here right now. By all means I should have you thrown out. 
 But you won't. You're a good man detective. We think alike. I know you need my help. And I know you know I need your help. 
 In my fifteen years as a homicide detective I've never met a single soul as pushy and brazen as you are Miss Weathers. 
 Please, call me Gale. 
 Deal, but I'm still Detective Kincaid,ok? 
 Mark, Bridger's in custody. We traced his phone records. He's the last person to speak to Sarah Darling before she died. Or at least call her home. 
 Wait a minute, Roman's your suspect? 
 Listen, Diane Sawyer, this here is classified information. Why don't you go investigate the bad meat at the A.P. This is police work, not Pulitzer material. 
 Hey, fuck off. 
 No, cool it Wallace. She's working with me. 
 (cocky) Well then. Looks like I'll go dust for finger prints with Barbara Walters. 
 So, what now? 
 Mr. Bridger, you didn't tell us you spoke with Sarah Darling before she died. 
 That's because I didn't. 
 The guard said she was there for a meeting with you. 
 What meeting? 
 We talked to her roommate, too.  Says you called Sarah and told her to come down to the studio.  Roommate answered the phone, says it was you. 
 Wait a minute!  I never called her! I never told her to go   anywhere! 
 Roommate says she knows your voice, Mr. Bridger. 
 Well, she wasn't speaking with me!  Look, I did not call   Sarah Darling! 
 Sarah Darling said you did. 
 Someone is trying to ruin my movie. Someone wants to kill   my movie! 
 Hey, look at it this way, if anything this'll be something interesting to put on the director's commentary for when the film hits DVD. 
 (dry laugh) Ha! Too late, studio's shutting down production. Called my film a risk! Do you believe this shit? They're actually shelving my film because there's been one ensie little murder. God, three people died during the filming of The Exorcist. 
 Well I doubt they were stabbed to death and I strongly doubt the killer of them left messages on the scene for the police to find. 
 They found another note? 
 Uh-huh. Another News clipping. Another one about Sid's mom. Dewey, whether we like it  or not it looks like we're going to have to  go back into our past. 
 You mean OUR past as in Me and Sid. This has nothing to do with you Gale. 
 This has everything to do with me Dewey. I was the one who brought the nation's attention to this shit anyway. I'll be damned if I'm gonna sit around and pass on the buck again. 
 Do you really mean it this time Gale? 
 Yes. Look, let's get something straight Dewey, I got into this shit cause the police came looking for ME. Not cause I'm out to make the SUNRISE STUDIOS SLASHINGS. 
 Why would the police come to you? 
 Again, I am the author of the definitive book on the Woodsboro murders.! (a beat) What about you? 
 What about me? 
 You said you'd never leave Woodsboro, 'The only place that's real!'  But now you're here. Not with me.  Dewey, I took care of you.  I waited until you were well.  I couldn't stay there, I mean, it's like dog years, one year in Woodsboro is like seven everywhere else. 
 So it's off to London for a week?  New York for a month? L.A Forever? 
 It was fucking '60 Minutes II'!  I couldn't say no!  I could've been the next Diane Sawyer! 
 What's wrong with just being Gale Weathers? I liked her! 
 It didn't work Dewey.  We tried,  we're different. 
 You used to say that was our strength. 
 Dewey, you're not just here because of that second rate K-Mart, straight-to-video version of me, are you? 
 Brace yourself, Gale, all of this is actually not About you. 
 All of what Dewey?  You do know something, don't you? 
 Off the record. 
 Always. 
 Two months ago, the Woodsboro police got a call from a woman who said she was with 'Stab 3'.  She wanted to see the file on Sid, for research. 
 And? 
 The boys said no.  She wouldn't give her name. A month later, the station gets broken into, the file room ransacked. 
 Someone stole Sid's file? 
 I already removed it.  I think someone on the film was trying to find Sid, and that's the only reason I came here. To make do a little private investigating of my own and make sure no one here was planning anything. 
 (whips out cellular) I'm sorry, this is too good! 
 What part of 'Off the record' don't you understand? 
 Right. Sorry. (a beat) Do you think he did it? 
 (RE: ROMAN) 
 (his beeper goes off) I've got my suspicions but still, nothing  you say can ever make me take my eyes off one person. 
 And who is that? 
 Jennifer needs me. 
 Jennifer?! Wait, where are you going off to? 
 I'm on duty. 
 (noticing Gale) Stop following me. 
 I happen to work for the police god dammit! 
 You're not a detective. 
 Neither are you, Magnum P.I. 
 Gale, your engine's still running. 
 Fuck! 
 Gale Weathers. What a surprise. 
 Tom Prinze, tanked as usual. That's a shocker. 
 Hey I really liked that piece you did on me last month. The one where you said my car accident was caused by me drinking and drugs, and how I faked the tire blow-out just so my insurance wouldn't sky rocket. 
 Heh, well, that's TV journalism for ya. Stage the news to boost ratings. 
 Really, cause that stunt lost me the lead role in Roman Polanski's latest picture. Huh, what a coincide I was picked up by Roman Bridger. Well, not exactly the Roman I wanted. Get my point? STAB 3 is bullshit. Fuck, because of your big mouth I'm here, drinking piss water SCOTCH with Second rate fucking celebrities like Jennifer Jollie and yourself! (a beat, subtle) Hey, I just got an idea. Maybe I should Have a look at your break line. That your car over there? 
 I think we should go inside. I have to have a talk with the cast. ALL OF YOU. 
 (laughs) You mean what's left of us. (tosses empty bottle aside) Yeah I'm running on empty anyways. Gotta refuel. 
 You! How can I ever get any fame playing you! 
 Dewey, what the hell is she rambling about now? What's wrong Jen, see yourself on one of those USA NETWORK winners you did and realize how badly you suck at acting? 
 God damn you Gale Weathers! Don't you see? The killer is choosing  his victims as they die in the script! Ben Damon's character was the first one to get offed. So was his girlfriend - but she wasn't cast yet so his real girlfriend was killed - then Sarah Darling's Candy, and now me! 
 Wait a second, whoa! Calm down! Number one there were five different versions of the script given out. Ben Damon was given a fake script because he was only being offered the role. It only had fragments of real scenes from the actual script. And what, I die in STAB 3? 
 (reading script) AND I DIE NAKED?!  UGH! This is complete bullshit. Who wrote this piece of crap? 
 I know right. It was kinda weak. That's cause Will Kennison only wrote a rough treatment of it. The script was written by some new guy. He wrote Arlington Street. 
 Still that was a much better movie, I saw it at the premiere last week. God, what the hell am I getting sidetracked with this shit for?! We've gotta get down to business. 
 (crying) What are you talking about? Because of this shit I'll probably never act in a Hollywood film again. 
 Hey good looking, if you play your cards right, I may be able to sit you down on my casting couch and try you out for a few films my  production company is working on. (a beat) How do you feel about a DEEP THROAT remake? 
 I'll be right back. 
 (calling out) Angelina! Hey! Where the hell are you? I was only playing! Hey look, I can really get you a bit part! Just come on out! Ok? (pauses) Damn it. There goes my chances of getting some head from her. 
 Aaaangelina? 
 Angelina? 
 You fucker! 
 (gagging) Fucker! 
 Shit! Where the hell are Tom and Angelina? 
 I don't know. Screw them. Look, what's important is that we stick together. No matter what. If anyone is next it's you or me Jen. 
 What about Sidney? 
 What about her? 
 Ssh. Maybe it's Tom or Angelina. I'll get it. 
 What if it's the killer? 
 Oh use your brain drama queen! Do the killers ever knock on the fucking door? Ever see Jason do that before burying an axe in some big titted blonde's head? Or maybe Michael or Chucky? Huh? 
 Don't worry. I'm prepared for anything. 
 Amen boy scout, now answer the fucking door! 
 Do you smell something? 
 (smirking) It's Gale. She farts when she gets nervous. 
! 
 Alright don't panic! Just a fuse. 
 Hurry! Everyone out the back way! Now! 
 Who's phone? 
 Oh shit it's my cell! 
 Answer it! 
 (into phone) Hello? 
 Hello Jennifer. Wanna play a little game? 
 It's him! It's the killer! 
 (into phone) Listen you sick bastard, what the fuck do you want? 
 What's your favorite scary movie Gale? 
 I dunno but I can tell you that your's will be the home video footage of me sticking my foot up your ass! Now come out and fight like a real man you pussy! 
(O.S.) I just might! 
 God damn it you two! Run! Hurry! He's dead! 
 No! He's not dead! He's still breathing! Look! 
 Gale he's dead. Come on. Let's get out of here. 
 OH. OH GOD. GALE -- 
 What? 
 (screaming) GALE BEHIND YOU! 
 (screaming) DIE MOTHER FUCKER! DIE! DIE! DIE! 
 Come on! 
 OH SHIT! RUN! 
 Whoever it is, now is taking credit for Maureen Prescott's murder. 
 But we know who killed Maureen Prescott, Billy Loomis and Stu Macher.  I mean, they even told Sidney how they did it! 
 Yeah, but, if I'm not mistaken, you said in your book that Sidney got it wrong before. She accused Cotton Weary of murdering her mother, and he was sent away for it!  Maybe there is a third killer.  Sidney Might know something 
 I told you, I don't know where Sidney is. And even if there was a third killer, Sidney doesn't know about it. 
 That is for me to decide.  I need to talk to her Mr. Riley, she is a key element in this case.  I have a press conference in an hour, and I need to explain why there are four dead celebrities. 
 Four? There are five. 
 Ben Damon. Christine Perkins. Sarah Darling. Tom Prinze. That's four, last time I learned how to count. 
 What about Angelina Tyler? She was there too. 
 Police are still searching through the debris. Could be days before we find her . . . that is, if she's even there. 
 OK, look.  We all know that this has something to do with 'Stab 3'.  What we do not know is why the killer keeps leaving articles about Maureen Prescott. 
 Actually, there was more this time. This time, we found a picture too. 
 DEWEY/GALE (together) What? 
 Before you jump to conclusions, the man in the picture, COTTON WEARY, is out of the country on business. His alibi checks out. Seems he's got a TV show in Australia, 100% COTTON. It's supposedly the biggest thing down under since Yahoo Serious, but that's besides the point. 
 What does this have to do with Sid? 
 Who knows more about Maureen Prescott than her own daughter? 
 Well Sid's dad couldn't help you and he was married to Maureen. 
 (chiming in) What's your problem?  Last night you were almost charcoal.  You gonna help us or what? 
 Do you wanna have this conversation with a polygraph? 
 Is that a threat, Detective? 
 When it's a threat, you'll know it. 
 (a beat) Is that a threat? 
 Boys, boys, why don't we compare our gun calibers later?  The issue is Maureen Prescott! 
 Wrong, this issue is Sidney Prescott!  And either Mr. Riley is going to obstruct justice or is going to put me in touch with her.  So, where is she? 
 Sid it's me, this is the sixth time I've called. (Sid turns the corner, is ushered down the hall by a cop) Please pick up, I wanna make sure you're Okay. (Dewey notices Sidney approaching him) Sid! 
 
! 
 What are you doing here? I told you to stay hidden! It's not safe for you up here. 
 Well it's not safe for me up there either. The killer found me Dewey. He called me last night. 
 What? 
 I figured I'd be safe If I was at least up here with the people I care about. (a beat) Now where's this Kincaid guy the news is talking about? I found this place from a FOX 5 TV NEWS REPORT. Heh. 
 Follow me. 
 Detective Kincaid? 
 What Rielly? 
 There's someone here who wants to help. 
 Oh my God! Sidney, you ran fast or what?  Hey. 
 Hi, Gale. I'm glad you're all right. 
 Thank you. 
 Sid, this is detective Kincaid. 
 Nice to finally meet you, Sidney. 
 The killer called her. 
 What?  When? 
 What'd he say? 
 Oh, you know, the usual small talk, "What's new, how ya been, how do you want to die?" 
 Sidney, do you have any idea how he could've gotten your number? 
 He could've monitored the calls on a scanner. Did you call her from the set? 
 No. 
 Do you have her number stored in your memory? (Dewey thinks) Phone memory! 
 Oh.  Yeah, I guess I do. 
 Has anyone else every used your phone? 
 Just Jennifer. (To Kincaid_) And you. 
 Hey, I'm the cop here.  You're in my office, Riley. 
 The killer leaves a newspaper clipping at each murder, Sidney. Recently he's also left a photo of your mother. 
 Why didn't you tell me?  This is my mother, Dewey. Why didn't you say something? 
 I was afraid they were bait, something to, ya know,  trick you out of hiding. 
 Listen, Detective, I wanna see this studio where all this shit's going down. 
 Are you sure? 
 Absolutely. 
 Alright Sid, over there is the STAB 3 Production offices. That's where Sarah Darling was murdered last night. 
 Mm, what a waste of Silicone. (a beat) What does my mother have to do with this all Dewey? We're a long way from Woodsboro. 
 Oh my God Karen you scared the shit out of me! What are you doing here? 
 Who's this. 
 Karen Colcheck. From Woodsboro. 
 She was Randy's only girlfriend . . . ever. 
 (smiling) That's me. First and Last. 
 It's been a while? You still working at Bradley's? 
 Nope. They opened up a Hollywood Video down the street. It pays better. Anyway, I'm here because I heard on the news about the murders and well, I found this while rooting through Randy's things. 
 Told you I'd make a movie someday, huh? 
 Oh MY god. 
 Well, if you're watching this tape, it means as I feared, I did not survive these killings here at Windsor College.   Anyway, the reason I am here is to help you, so that my death will not be in vain.  That my life's work, will help save some other poor soul from getting mutilated. If this killer does come back, and he's for real, there are a few things that you gotta remember. Is this simply another sequel?  Well, if it is, same rules apply.  But, here's the critical thing.  If you find yourself dealing with an unexpected backstory, and a preponderance of exposition,  then the sequel rules do not apply.  Because you are not dealing with a sequel, you are dealing with the concluding chapter of a trilogy. 
 A trilogy? 
 That's right.  It's a rarity in the horror field, but it does exist, and it's a force to be reckoned with, because true trilogies are all about going back to the beginning and discovering something that wasn't true from the get go.  'Godfather', 'Jedi', all revealed something that we thought was true, that wasn't true.   So if it is a trilogy you are dealing with, here are some super trilogy rules.   One, you got a killer who's gonna be super human.  Stabbing him won't work, shooting him won't work, basically in the third one, you gotta cryogenically freeze his head, decapitate him, or blow him up.   Number two; anyone including the main character can die.  This means you, Sid.  I'm sorry, it's the final chapter.  It can be fuckin  'Reservoir Dogs' by the time this thing is through.  Number three; the past will come back to bite you in the ass!  Whatever you think you know about the past, forget it.  The past is not at rest, any sins you think were committed in the past are about to break out and destroy you. NUMBER FOUR,Never, ever under any circumstances go running off by yourself, cause if Friday the 13th has taught us anything, it's that the next time we're gonna see you, you're gonna have a fence post jutting out from your back. So in closing, let me say good luck, God Speed, and for some of you, I'll see you soon, cause the rules say, some of you ain't gonna make it.  I didn't, not if you're watching this tape. 
 Thanks Karen. You be careful. 
 Don't worry Sid. I got tickets to see Family Feud. I did have a somewhat ulterior motive for driving all the way down here. 
 I've got an idea, I'll hook up with you guys later. 
 Do you want us to come with you? 
 I work better alone.  Why don't you do some snooping around the set? 
 I can see nothing's changed. 
 No. 
 Geez. 
 What the hell are you doing? 
 Being Gale Weathers.  What the hell are you doing? 
 I am Gale Weathers! 
 Here's how I see it.  I've got no house, no movie, no gun, and I'm being stalked.  Because someone wants to kill me?  No, because someone wants to kill you. So now, starting now, I go where you go.  That way, if someone wants to kill me, I'll be with you, and since they really want to kill you, they won't kill me, they'll kill you.  Make sense? 
 None. 
 You know in the movies, I play you as being much smarter. 
 And as a sane person.  For you that must be quite a stretch. 
 That's funny. 
 Ha. Maybe I should join SNL. 
 Need to get in that building? 
 (sarcastically) No really? 
 There a story in that building? 
 Possibly. 
 (flashing a Sunrise Studios Key Card) Gale Weathers would find a way. (she swipes and opens the door) 
 Basements creep me out. 
 Really, you know you'd make a fascinating interview. Lifestyles of the Rich and Psychotic. 
 Look who's talking Moneybags. You got more homes than I do. 
 (smiling) Oh I wish I got that one on tape. It'd put a smile on my face everytime I'm down. 
 (underbreath) Bitch. 
 Can I help you? 
 I'm Gale Weathers, author of the Woodsboro and Windsor College murders, and anchorwoman for TOTAL ENTERTAINMENT. Maybe you've heard of me? 
 I don't watch TV and I hate books. Whatta you need? 
 Does the name Maureen Prescott sound familiar to you? 
 Nope. 
 (groans) Well can you tell me if the woman in this picture looks familiar to you. 
 Listen, I'm busy. Nobody has access to those files except studio execs. Can you please go away now? 
 Well if you won't work for me, will you work for the president? 
 The president . . . of the studio. 
 Twenty dollars? Who are you Nancy Drew? 
 Go ahead. It's worth three grand easy. (to Gale) My Gale Weather's will stop at nothing to get the story. 
 Follow me. 
 (staring at picture, flipping through file cabinet) I know every face in here, respect for the unknown actor I suppose, myself included. If you're looking for Maureen Prescott -- 
 (interrupting) It may be Maureen Reynolds -- 
 Well you'll find neither. Rina Reynolds, however, You will. 
 (smiling) Rina Reynolds. What a stage name. 
 You should talk, Judy Jurgenstein. 
 What are these movies? 'Amazombies', 'Space Psychos' 'Creatures from theSan Andreas Fault'? 
 Horror flicks. B-Movies from Milton's heyday. 
 GALE/JENNIFER (together) What? 
 You know, JOHN MILTON, the horror producer? Those were some of his early flicks. 
 Listen Dewey I have to go to the bathroom. 
 Do you want me to come with you Sid? I mean, remember what Randy said? 
 No I'll be ok. I've got my mace. My knife. (smiles, raises up her fists) These two lethal weapons. 
 Sure you don't need a police escort? That's what we're here for. 
 No really, I'll be fine. 
 I'll be right back. 
 H-hello? Anyone there? 
(O.S.) (whisper) Sidney. 
 (crying) Shit. 
 (re:gun) Don't worry, I've got a permit for it. 
 (hysterical) Jesus Christ Dewey help me! They tried to kill me in the bathroom! The killers! 
 Wait a second? Killers? There's two of them now? Aw shit! 
 (into phone) Yeah this is Wallace. We got a problem   down here on the Sunrise Studios lot. No not another one. At least not yet. Yeah we've had an attack. (to Sid) Do you need medical assistance? (Sid nods her head 'no') No. Oh really. Alright, see you in a minute. 
 What? 
 Well I got some good news in a way. Roman Bridger didn't make those calls To Sarah Darling. Police let him go. Here's the bad news: The cellular was cloned, it's untraceable. We now have no suspects. 
(O.S.) Dew! 
 Sidney, what happened? 
 Nevermind, what'd you two find? 
 We did some researching in the archives. Sid, something dawned on me when I wrote the book on your mother's murder. For two years of her life, 1969 up until 1971 she basically disappeared off the face of the Earth. 
 What are you talking about? 
 We've found out where she went. 
 She was an actress Sidney. Minor B-Movies. But now we have a new suspect in this twisted fucking web . . . John Milton. 
 The head of the studio? 
 It makes sense doesn't it? It's his big grandiose swan song from the genre. What a better way to end than with a bloodbath? 
 Sidney, what happened? 
 I was attacked in the bathroom. 
 Wallace, shouldn't you be investigating the bathroom? 
 (looks at building) I'm waiting for back-up. I don't carry bullets in my gun unless I know I'm gonna use em. 
 Jesus Christ Sidney, what happened? I got a call on my cell from home. They told me that someone was attacked. 
 And what made you think it was Sidney? 
 (glaring) Sid, get in my car. You're coming back to the station with me where it's safe. 
 Dewey, Jennifer, I think we should pay John Milton a little visit. 
 DEWEY/JENNIFER (together) Agreed. 
 (into phone) Roman I know you're upset. But there will be other movies. I know. Ah, VARIETY called you a Pariah? Well fuck them. I got a great script on my desk. It's called TRAGIC MENAGE TRIOS and it was written by John Sayles. I'm thinking you for Director. What? (knock at the door) Come in. (into phone) No, not to you Roman. Look I'll talk to you later. Bye. 
 So you knew Sidney Prescott's mother. 
 Just what the hell do you people think you're doing, barging in here like this? I've got important calls to make. I run this studio. 
 Answer the question. You knew Sidney's mom? 
 Who? 
 Rina Reynolds. 
 Do you know how many actors have worked for me? Hundreds, thousands. 
 Nobody said she was an actor. 
 Good twist. 
 What's your point? 
 No point, I'm just gonna give Detective Kincaid a call. 
 I remember her!  She was a bit player in a couple of my movies. A nobody! So what does it matter? 
 Oh, Come on!  You have made millions off the story of her murder.  You're obsessed with HER and you're obsessed with her DAUGHTER! 
 Settle down Beavis. (to Milton) Why don't you tell us the truth? 
 What the hell are you guys getting at?  I make horror films, that's what I do.  The Studio came to me with 'Stab'.  They came to me, check it out. 
 But you know who she was. 
 When we did the first 'Stab" I realized I'd known Maureen Prescott before, I mean as Rina. I couldn't tell anyone.  Can you imagine the press? 
 And now? I mean, murders on your set and still you say nothing? 
 Get real, that would make me a suspect! 
 Just because you knew her? 
 Yeah. 
 I don't think so!  Just what happened to Maureen when she was in Hollywood? 
 Now you listen to me, Lois Lane, let it go. It's dead and buried. Daddy took ol' Yeller out behind the barn and shot him in the head a long time ago. 
 Well how would you like his rotten carcass dug up and drug all over National TV? Why don't you start talking. 
 It was in the 70's, everything was different. I was well known for my parties, Rina knew what they were. It was for girls like her to meet men, men who could get them parts, if they made the right impression.  Nothing happened to her that she didn't invite, in one way or another, no matter what she said afterwards. 
 Are you saying she was- 
 I'm saying things got out of hand.  Maybe they did take advantage of her!.  Maybe the sad truth is, this is not the city for innocence.  No charges were brought.  And the bottom line is, Rina Reynolds wouldn't play by the rules.  You wanna get ahead in Hollywood, you gotta play the game, or go home. 
 What do you know about trilogies? 
 You mean like, movie trilogies? 
 You seem to like movies, Detective. 
 Call me Mark, would you?  Cause I'm gonna keep calling you Sidney. 
 I'll call you Mark when you catch the killer, Detective. 
 All I know about movie trilogies is in the third one, all bets are off. 
 (noticing a huge file on her) Did you request this case? 
 No, they tend to put me on the ones that deal with the business.  I grew up here, and I know my way around the studios. 
 Must be exciting, Beautiful place, beautiful people. 
 To me Hollywood is about death. 
 Excuse me? 
 I'm a homicide detective, remember?  When you see what I see day in and day out, the violence that people do to each other, you get haunted. I think you know about that. 
 What do you mean? 
 I know what it's like to see ghosts that don't Go away.  To be watching a scary movie in your head, whether you want to or not,  watching it alone. 
 Ghosts are tough,  you can't shoot ghosts. 
 Can't arrest ghosts.  But the best way to stop being haunted is to be with people.  You're here, you're not hiding, you've done the right thing, Miss Prescott. 
 Hmm. 
 What did you know about your mother? 
 I used to think I had the perfect mom, perfect family.  Till I found out I was wrong.  She had a secret life, and I tried to understand that, and soon as I thought I had, more secrets.  I don't' know who my mom was. (a beat) Sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about my mother for the first time. You know, with TV and those movies and what not. God sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about myself for the first time. Like I'm watching my life instead of living in it. 
 (a long beat) Here's the deal, I'm off to search the soundstage. That's good news. 
 How is that good news? 
 Because, that means that we're dealing with an ordinary, flesh and blood killer.  And I know how to handle guys like that. 
 Oh yeah, how? 
 Catch him, or kill him. 
 Hey Detective?  What's your favorite scary movie? 
 (sotto) My life. 
 Mine too. 
 Oh God Gale, Dewey was right. Stop getting so nervous and you might stop causing me to gag! 
 DEWEY/GALE (together) SHUT UP! 
 I think Milton's the killer. I think he just went out to kill another cast member. 
 Milton's not a killer. He's a pervert. He probably went out to buy more KY JELLY for his jack -off parties he has with his two best friends. 
 Rob Reiner and Quentin Tarentino? 
 (smacks her forehead out of frustration) Do you get any of my witty humor? I mean, you did play me for three movies. (a beat) His two hands, dingus. 
 Ssh ladies. 
 (into phone) John Milton. 
 Wanna play a game? 
 Who is this? 
 You tell me. You bankrolled three  movies about me. 
 It's you. The saboteur whose been fucking up my movie! (a beat) I swear to God if you don't stop I'll find you and have you killed! I shut down production on that piece of shit STAB 3! We had a no talent director and the lousiest Sidney Prescott on the planet but that was besides the point! You still killed MY movie! A John Milton film! And if you ever try and cross me again you'll be sorry. My next movie is gonna be a grandiose step up from this slasher shit! It's a film written and directed by John Sayles. 
 Oh poor John. There's not gonna be another film. Well, at least not for you. 
 Hold on Gale, I'm a pro at this. 
 Oh Dewey I'm sorry. 
 Here. Let me -- 
 Excuse me Gale! What the hell do you think you're doing? 
 (shaking it off) Let's get this drawer open. If it's locked, there must be something inside he's trying to hide. 
 Shit. That's gonna leave a mark. 
 What? What'd you find? 
 Paternity test results. Christ Dewey, you're never going to believe who Milton's kid is. 
 Who is it? 
 (nervously) Guys! I got a bad feeling. 
 DEWEY/GALE (angrily, together) NOT NOW! 
 Guys there's someone else in the fucking room! 
 Huh? 
 (frantic) Gale run! 
 (screaming) Dewey! 
 -- 
 Jesus Gale what happened? 
 (frantic) He killed Milton! The killer's  inside there! Oh God! (realizing) DEWEY! Dewey's in there too! He needs medical help! He's hurt! 
 Alright, calm down. I'm going to radio in for backup right now. 
(O.S.) Not so fast. We're not finished. 
 I wouldn't run if I were you Gale. It's only gonna end up with you getting Skewered like a fucking pig. I need you. 
 (nervously) Awfully late time to be doing an interview. 
 I need you as bait. For Sidney. 
 (into phone) Hello? 
 SIDNEY'S VOICE(O.S.) (off phone) Hello? 
 Who is this? 
(O.S.) Who is this? 
 Um wh-who's calling? 
(O.S.) Um wh-who's calling? 
 Gale, Dewey, whoever, um, call me back, I can only hear myself. 
 { a click } I only her you too, Sidney. 
 Who is this? 
 The question isn't who I am.  The question is, who's with me. 
 (screaming) Sidney, stay away! 
 Don't do it!  If you do one thing to attract attention, one thing, I'll kill them both. Now, do you have somewhere we can be alone? 
 Yes. 
 Go there. 
 Always hard being friends with you, Sidney. When you're friends with Sidney, you die! Well these friends don't have to, Sidney. It's up to you. 
 How do I know their voices are -- 
 Are real?  How do you know you're not hearing things? How do you know I'm not someone in your head? Somewhere, you know. 
 (frantic) Don't come here Sidney! 
 Dewey! No! 
 Or do you? 
 You're dead! 
 I don't want them, I want you!  It's simple. You show yourself, they survive, you run, they die! 
 Oh God!  Oh God! 
 Don't you want to know Sidney? Don't you want to know who killed her?  Don't you want to know who killed your mother? 
(O.S.) Have you seen Kincaid? 
 2(O.S.) NO.  But Wallace is around. 
 Where? 
 She'd have been so happy, Sidney, to know we'd be together. 
 WHERE? 
 I'll call you, when you're on your way. 
 Fuck! 
 (into phone) Yeah? 
 You follow directions good. Now let's wrap this production. Go to the Sunrise Studios backlot. I'll call you when you get there. 
 (into phone) Alright, I'm here. Now what? 
 You're doing real good. Can't you figure it out? I wanna finish this where it all began. Woodsboro. 
 I thought you wanted me here? 
 (into phone) Alright I'm here, now show your  face so we can finish this. 
 It's good to see you again Sidney. I was growing real impatient. Go ahead. Explore. I'll catch up with you later. 
 Yeah? 
(O.S.) (off phone) Help me Sid! The killer's got me! 
 Dewey?! OHMIGOD! Where are you?! 
(O.S.) Sid I can see you! 
 Where are you Dewey? 
(O.S.) I'm out back. Tied up. Hurry Sid! The killer's looking for you! Quick untie me! 
(O.S.) Good work Sid. 
 (Sid's voice) You play a good game Sidney. Now it's time to get down to business. 
 Who are you? 
 (click-now he's Maureen's voice) Your other half. 
 
 
! 
 Christ Sidney hurry up! That fucking lunatic is coming! 
 Gale he's got Dewey! 
 I know! He killed Kincaid! 
 I know! 
 Let's get out of here! 
 (screaming) 
! 
 -- 
 Jesus Christ Sidney get out of here! He can't get us both! 
 
! 
! 
(O.S.) (weakly) Sidney? 
 (eyes lighting up) Dewey! 
 Where's Gale? 
 They've got her! 
 Sid I want you to stay here! I'll be right back! I'm not gonna let them get Gale! 
 (tightening grip on gun) Hold it right there you fucker! 
 (nervously) OH shit! 
 (crying) Oh God. 
 Time to sort things out. Whatta you say? 
 It's you?! All of this is because of you? 
 No. Not all of it. Sid, someone really wants to meet you. 
 Uh-un Sid. You're not gonna run off. Not now. 
(O.S.) You're not going anywhere Sidney. It's time you came to terms with me, and with mother! Maybe you never knew her at all, Sid. Maybe you can't get past the surface of things. 
 Who the hell are you? 
 Roman Bridger, director. And brother. (a beat) She slammed the door in my face, Sid. Said I was Rina's child and Rina was dead. And it struck me, what a good idea! So I watched her, made a little home movie, a little family film. Seems Maureen, mom, really got around. I mean, Cotton Weary was one thing, everybody knew about that, but Billy's father, that was the key! Your boyfriend didn't like seeing his daddy in my movies. Didn't like it at all. And once I supplied the motive, all the kid needed was a few pointers. Have a partner to sell out in case you get caught, find someone to frame, it was like her was making a movie. 
 All the nightmares. All the hell I went through was because of you, you spineless bastard! 
 I'm a director Sid, I direct. For example, Angelina over there, (Angelina smiles) She's my partner. I can convince her to do anything.  We've been dating since I met her in Woodsboro. 
 (dryly) Oh my God, Angie Crick? From English class? 
 That's me Sid. I always idolized you. You were always my hero. That's why I'm here Sidney. I wanted to make you proud. 
 And I kinda keep her around cause it's a bit of a turn-on. You know, in the movies she's you Sid, so every time I jump her bones, I'm doing YOU, technically. 
 (repulsed) Listen, I have no time for this. I've heard this shit before! So lets get on with it! 
 Wait a second Sid. Don't you go jumping the gun. You haven't seen the best part. (pulls out tape recorder) With the aides of the computer revolution of y2kI've been able to steal your voice. (presses play) Ain't it cool? Listen to what the police are gonna find next to your lifeless, mutilated body. 
 (off tape recorder) I can't take it anymore. This Hollywood exploitation of the nightmare I lived has to be stopped. I did this to make you all repent for your sins, and now I'm pleased I've got my message across. Good-bye. 
 (clicking off tape recorder) Awesome. What'd I tell ya? Heh. Did youknow that John Milton, was my daddy? Yep, he's the one who fucked mommy dearest in the long run. His parties, his flings, exploited the Hollywood nobody! That's whyI had to make him pay. Daddy dearest is dead. Mommy's dead. Looks like I'm an orphan all alone in this world. What a good reason to -- 
! 
 See Sidney, as amateur as Billy and Stu were, they laid the groundwork for this! See Sidney, they also set the stage for you! Introducing to the world Sidney the victim! Sidney the survivor! Sidney the star! 
 See Sid, now comes the part where we get away with it! The part where we win! Cause face it Sidney, in this world, the bad guys win! 
 Roman knock it off! Do you people even know why you kill people? You kill people cause you choose to and not because of any other fucking reason! 
 (screaming) Roman make her stop! Make her stop baby she's freaking me out! 
 (screaming) God damn it Sidney! 
 (coughing) Hey bitch, don't ever use prop cuffs to restrain Gale Weathers. 
 (leaping up) I know all the tricks! 
, 
-- 
 Dewey my God I thought you were dead. 
 Don't worry Sid I'd never leave you like that. 
 DEWEY! IT'S GALE! 
 -- 
 (screaming) THIS IS FOR THE STARDOM I NEVER HAD! 
! 
 --FOYER -- 
 Watch out Sid. Randy said the killer's always superhuman. 
 He wasn't superhuman Dewey. He wasn't superhuman at all. 
 WHOA! HOLY SHIT IS THIS GONNA MAKE A GOOD BOOK! 
 (pissed) This shit is really getting repetitive, you know? 
 Gale, I know this is a bad time and all but what if we try it out again. The whole relationship thing. 
 (smiles) Sure, why not. You did Save my life,Mr. Rielly. 
 Jesus Christ what happened? I leave for two seconds to take my kid to the doctor, I come back and it's the fucking WILD BUNCH. 
 It was just something that's been itching to be completed for the past four years. 
 I guess so. 
 
