 21, 1997 
. 
 MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) When I was sixteen years old I fell in love... 
 Hey. 
 Eh. 
 See, the thing is, I heard a rumor that this guy I like was gonna ask me. 
 Yeah, so...I'm gonna wait and see what happens there...But that sounds great, yeah. 
 I think I was very clear, Ted. If everything else falls apart, maybe. 
 MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) Her name was Mary. She'd moved to our little Rhode Island town from Minnesota two years earlier. 
 MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) Mary was very smart, and very cool, and she had a faceful of eyes that promised you a better life if you could only know her. 
 #1 Hey, dirtbud, who you going to the prom with? 
 #2 You have a style? 
 #1 Why don't you be a gentleman and ask Rosey? 
 #1 Rosey Palm, your girlfriend. God knows you spend enough fucking time with her. 
 #1 Clever. I like the way you just spun that around on me. 
 #2 I wonder who she's going with. 
 #1 Some guy named Woogie. 
 #1 Big guy--goes to Barrington high school. 
 #1 Loser? Woogie was all-state football and and basketball and valedictorian of his class. 
 #2 I heard he got a scholarship to Princeton but he's going to Europe first to model. 
 #3 Yeah and he's got a huge cock. 
 #1 Hey, check it out. 
 What?! 
 You son-of-a-bitch, I'll kick your ass! 
 BOYFRIEND/SMOKEY This fucking pervert just came on to Nance! 
 BOYFRIEND/SMOKEY Get the fuck out of my way, man! 
 What's going on here? 
 No, I haven't seen your baseball. Jeez, Warren, you know you're not supposed to leave the yard by yourself. 
 BOYFRIEND/SMOKEY (to Mary) You know him? 
 He's my brother. 
 BOYFRIEND/SMOKEY Oh. (beat) I didn't realize he was...you know... 
 You okay? 
 Thanks a lot, Ted. 
 MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) That she knew my name blew my mind. Some of my best friends didn't know my name. 
 Hey, you're limping. Did you just hurt yourself? 
 Oh, are you on the team? 
 Piggyback ride? 
 Warren, come on, leave Ted alone. 
 Piggyback ride. 
 Oh he can hold you. He weighs two-hundred-and-thirty pounds. 
 My turn now. 
 Giddy-up. 
 So who you taking to the prom? 
 The prom--you going? 
 'Cause I thought maybe you and I could go if you weren't already taking someone. 
 MAN'S VOICE (V.O.) From that moment on the guys at school looked at me in a whole new light. 
 #1 You're a fucking liar! 
 #2 You expect us to believe you're going to the prom with Mary? What about Woogie? 
 #1 I got twenty bucks says you're full of shit. 
 #1 Because you're a loser, and in some warped way this gives you a momentary sense of worth. 
 #2 Put me down for fifty. 
 #3 I'm in. 
 MARY'S DAD Yeah? What do you want? 
 MARY'S DAD Prom? You're about twenty minutes late. She just left for the prom with her boyfriend Woogie. 
 MARY'S MOM. 
 MARY'S MOM Charlie, that's mean. Come on in, Ted. Don't listen to Mr. Wise Guy here. He's a joke a minute. 
 Hi, Ted. 
 MARY'S MOM Poor Teddy--he's been getting it both barrels from the Wisenheimer here. 
 Dad, have you been busting Ted's chops? 
 (not looking up) 'Bout ten times. 
 You seen my baseball? 
 Warren!!! 
. 
 MARY'S DAD (to Ted) What the hell are you doing?! 
 MARY'S MOM Teddy, let him go! 
 MARY'S MOM What baseball? Where's a baseball? 
 Are you all right? 
 MARY'S MOM (to Mary) Honey, now you're all wrinkled. 
 Ted, will you just give me one more minute? I have to iron this thing. 
 
!!!!!!!!!! 
 (knocking gently) Ted, are you okay? 
 MARY'S MOM He's been in there over half an hour. (whispering) Charlie, I think he's masturbating. 
 Mom! 
 MARY'S MOM Well he was watching you undress with a silly grin on his face. 
 MARY'S MOM Charlie, do something. 
 MARY'S DAD All right, kid, that's it, I'm coming in. 
 MARY'S DAD You got what stuck? 
 MARY'S DAD It? (beat) Oh it. All right, these things happen, let me have a look. It's not the end of the world. 
 MARY'S DAD (O.S.) OH FOR THE LOVE OF GOD! 
 MARY'S DAD 
 (CALLS OUT) Shirley, get in here! You gotta see this! 
 MARY'S DAD She's a dental hygienist. She'll know what to do. 
 MARY'S MOM Teddy, hon, are you okay? (moving closer, seeing the situation) OH HEAVENS TO PETE! 
 MARY'S MOM Just relax, dear. Now, um...what exactly are we looking at here? 
 MARY'S MOM (delicate) I mean is it...is it...? 
 MARY'S DAD (gruff) Is it the frank or the beans? 
 (O.S.) Franks and beans! 
 (to Warren) Shhhh. 
 MARY'S DAD (O.S.) What the hell's that bubble? 
 MARY'S DAD How the hell'd you get the beans all the way up top like that? 
 MARY'S MOM Oh my, there sure is a lot of skin coming through there. 
 MARY'S DAD I'm guessing that's what the soprano shriek was about, pumpkin. 
 MARY'S MOM I'm going to get some Bactine. 
 Ho there. 
 Everything okay here? Neighbors said they heard a lady scream. 
 MARY'S DAD You're looking at him. C'mere and take a look at this beauty. 
 Now I've seen it all. What the hell were you thinking? 
 Is that bubble what I think it is? 
 MARY'S DAD Let's just say the kid's limber. 
 Well, there's only one thing to do. 
 Look, son, this'll only hurt for a second. 
 MARY'S MOM Teddy, be brave. 
 (O.S.) Beans and franks! 
 (O.S.) Warren, shhh. 
 It's just like pulling off a Band-aid. A-one and a-two and... 
 We got a bleeder! 
 (to Mary) Keep pressure on it! 
 (running along) Ted, I'm so sorry. Are you going to be okay? 
 Uh-huh. Interesting. 
 You know...rest areas are homosexual hang-outs. 
 Highway rest areas--they're the bathhouses of the nineties for some gay men. 
 (checking wristwatch) Oops, time's up. We'll have to delve into that next week. 
 Gay? He said you were gay? 
 Well you're a writer, and a lot of writers are gay. Look at Truman Capote. 
 Let me ask you this: When you smoke a cigar, do you ever pretend it has balls? 
 I'm going to fix you up with my new assistant. 
 You're leaving it out. Finish your swing. (beat) You're going to like this one--she's half Asian, half American. 
 I just told you, she's half Asian. half American. They're all good looking. You could mate Don Rickles and Yoko Ono and they're going to have a gorgeous kid. It's a foolproof combo. 
 (SIGHS) Lately I've been feeling like...well...like a loser. 
 Loser? You? 
 I never said that. I'm saying your lucky those kids found his kidneys. (beat) Besides, your brother Jimmy never gave a shit about you. 
 (on phone) You're a cocksucking motherfucking piece of puke! 
 DOM'S WIFE I thought you guys might like these with your beers. 
 Thanks, baby. 
 Each day is better than the next. (beat) Have you ever been, you know...in love with someone? 
 Never? 
 Mary again. 
 Whatever happened to Mary? 
 I mean since then. 
 Well why don't you look her up? 
 Why not? 
 What if you're wrong? You just said she's the only girl you ever loved, what have you got to lose by calling her? 
 So that was it? One bump in the road and you gave up? 
 You're kidding? What did they say? 
 I got it--you hire a private eye, fly him out there, he follows her around a couple days, she'll never know a thing. 
 Wait a second. There's a guy named Healy in my office who might be able to help you out. He's a claims investigator and he goes to Miami every couple weeks. 
 Relax, this guy owes me a big one. A couple years ago he got in a jam up in the Boston office; some bullshit about padding his resume--like we haven't all done that. Anyway, they were going to let him go but his mother wrote a tear-jerker letter that ended up on my desk. 
 Yeah, I guess he still lives with her. Seemed like a sweet lady--got diabetes or something--so I went out on a limb and got him transferred down to Providence. 
 He'll do better than that. I'll send him down to Miami on business, you throw him a couple bucks on the side, and he'll track her down. 
 So, Dom tells me you're looking for some lady-friend you knew in high school. 
 Any idea where I might start looking? 
 (skeptical) All you want is a phone number? 
 Don't play games with me, Ted. 
 I don't buy it. 
 Ted, I'm the kind of guy who shoots from the hip. Now I want you to level with me: Did you knock this skirt up? 
 She's blackmailing you, right? 
 You want her dead, don't you? 
 Do you really expect me to believe this is a straight stalker case? 
 Sure she is. That's why she got an unlisted number and you haven't heard squat from her in a dozen years. Oh you're good, Ted. You're a real piece of work. 
 I get one hundred a day plus expenses. 
 Okay, Ted, I'll do it. But if this chick turns up with a toe tag, I'm rolling over on you. 
 (checking out car) Fucking Sully! Look at you! 
 Thanks. 
 Nah, some guy threw me a few bucks to track down his high school girlfriend. 
 Big time. 
 Very nice. 
 Okay? With this pad, the killer wheels? Looks like you really cleaned up your act. 
 Fuckin' animals. Hey, what do you say we go grab a couple drinks. 
 Yeah, and you don't drink any less, right? 
 Tell Bill to get the fuck off! 
 What are you talking about? You were never an alky, you were a cokehead. 
 Is that right? Well good for you, Sull, I'm proud of you. 
 This is a light beer. You can't have a light beer? 
 Sully, it's one fuckin' beer for Christ sakes. (holds up beer) Ooh, the big bad beer's gonna get ya. 
 Bet your ass you are. Now I don't want to hear anymore of your happy horseshit. You gotta learn how to bend a little or believe me...you're gonna break. 
 Ah, fuck ya then, you big pussy. What are you, spotting? 
 (into recorder) Okay, Ted, I found your Mary. Her current address, two-niner-eight Euclid Avenue, Miami Beach. Husband, negative. Children and Labrador, negative. Extremely nice ass, affirmative. 
 Have you been up all night again? 
 Bet your ass I have. It's an important job, Neighborhood Watch is. 
 Neighborhood Watch? Is that what you call listening in on stranger's phone conversations? 
 These ain't strangers, they're neighbors. This only picks up signals in a half-mile radius. 
 Meaning? 
 Meaning these are the people you live amongst, you got a right to know if they're creeps. For instance, did you know there's a guy down the hall cheating on his wife? 
 (feigning shock) You picked that up on the scanner. We gotta move. 
 I confirmed it on the scanner. I knew something was up because Puffy used to bark like hell whenever he saw him and you know Puffy only barks at bad people. 
 Magda, Puffy barks at everybody. 
 That's because there's a lot of bad people out there. Hey, Puffy tried to warn you about that Steve guy you was seeing--he was a fucking asswipe--but you had to find out for yourself, didn't you? 
 Okay, you win. Now try to get some sleep, huh. 
 (into mic) Looks like we got an athlete on our hands. 
 (into mic) Well, from her figure and her appetite, I'm guessing she's either got a bowel disorder or we've got a hurler on our hands. 
 Get in line. One at a time. 
 Can I have two, Mary? 
 Yeah, you can have two halves, just like everyone else. 
 Thanks. 
 Will you marry me, Mary? 
 Oh yeah, pretty boy? And what about Dolores? 
 Would you marry us both, Mary? 
 Yeah, that'd be a good deal for you, wouldn't it? 
 (into mic) Ixnay on the big appetite. (beat) She's just got a big heart. 
 Listen to this one--'Seeking sensitive Wasp doctor to share candlelit dinners, long walks in Coconut Grove, marriage.' 
 What does this girl want, a corpse? You gotta be more specific: 'Seeking deaf mute with three pound cock and trust fund.' 
 No, it should be 'a hockey player with great pecs.' 
 Ugh, not pecs. Sounds like one of those guys with a fish-net shirt and a banana hammock. 
 (O.S.) (to Mary) I suppose you wouldn't like someone with a washboard stomach like Brad Pitt? 
 I'm just saying I don't mind a guy with a bit of a beer belly. It means he's a guy. You can have those pretty boys who hang out in a gym all day staring at their reflections. 
 
 (quietly into mic) A girl after your own heart, Ted. 
 I can live with those reflections. 
 I'm sick of these calorie-countin' pansies. Give me a guy who likes kielbasa and beer and playing thirty-six holes and still has enough energy to take me and Warren out to a ballgame. 
 (sarcastic) Jeez, I don't know where you're ever going to find a guy like that. 
 But here's the rub. The guy I'm talking about has got to be self-employed. 
 You mean, like an architect or something? 
 Architect, yeah. 
 No, it's not the money. Creative, yeah, that's good, but it's the freedom I'm talking about. See, this guy has to have a job he could do anywhere. That way we could just up and leave at the drop of a hat. 
 And where would you and your beer-bellied architect be leaving to? 
 I don't know. The Super Bowl, New Orleans Jazz Festival...maybe a couple months in Nepal. 
 Yeah, and you'd probably dump the poor guy halfway to Katmandu. 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 It means you're too hard on guys. 
 No I'm not. 
 Oh come off it, Mare. What about what's-his-name...Steverino? You could've at least passed the baton on that one. 
 Yeah, Steve. Steve was all right for awhile. 
 All right for awhile? The guy's good-looking, rich, witty. He was a god. 
 At one point you were talking about marrying him. Come on, why'd you dump him? 
 I don't know, it was complicated. He's in San Francisco, I'm in Miami. (dodging question) Besides, Magda's psychic dog hated him. 
 Is that old crab still with you? Mary, you said you were putting her up for a month--it's been a year and a half. 
 Ah, she's okay. 
 Mary, cut the crap, what really happened with Steve? 
 Nothing. I mean, you know my brother. (sighs) Warren. 
 What? Steve seemed to put up with Warren. 
 I don't want someone who'll put up with him. I want someone who will enjoy him, the way I do. Do you know what he told my friend Tucker? He said he would've popped the question a lot earlier if Warren wasn't in my life. (beat) Well he is in my life and I'm goddamn lucky to have him. The hell with Steve. 
 Well, that's the last time I blow him behind your back. 
 Hello...? Sully...? (beat) Sully, that you? 
 Sully, it's Healy. What's going on over there? 
 Uh, I'm fine. Just wanted to let you know I'll have your car back in a couple hours, I'm still staking out this girl's apartment. 
 Thanks, Mary. 
 You watch out for yourself, Herb. 
 Jesus, Mary, you gotta hear this--some cop's staking out this broad's apartment. 
 No time, Magda, my show's starting. 
 (V.O.) This is a good one, Mare. Sounds like his partner's all lubed up. 
 (quietly into phone) Call you back. 
 Ah, Christ, I lost 'em. 
 Fucking Barney...he never learns... 
 (into mic) Here we go, Teddo. Here comes the money shot. 
 I've got some very, very good news for you, my friend. 
 I think your life's about to change. 
 Right there in Liberty City. And you were right, she's really something. 
 That I couldn't. say. Let me ask you something: Was she a little big-boned in high school? 
 Well she must've packed on a few pounds over the years. 
 I'd say about a deuce, deuce and a half. Not bad. 
 Nope. Never been. 
 Four kids, three different guys. 
 Well I'm guessing. There's a black kid, two whites, and a midget. 
 Hyperactive little fuckers, too. Tough to keep up with in a wheelchair, I bet. 
 Don't look so shocked, it's been a long time. I bet you've changed a lot over the last twelve years, haven't you? 
 Anyway, the good news is I have all the information you need. Got it from her bookie--nice guy. You should definitely call her, Ted. I mean she's a real sparkplug, that one. She seems determined to get those rugrats off welfare and with your help I'll bet she does it. 
 Ted? Don't you want the name of the housing project? 
 You sure, big guy? I'll bet she'd love to hear from you before her mastectomy! 
 Oh, uh, I resigned. 
 Yeah, this insurance business is too slow for me. I'm going to go down and try my hand at jai alai. 
 Yeah, I don't know why but I always felt at home in the fronton. 
 Good good. 
 Rollerpig? Are you nuts? 
 I said buttplug. She's heinous. 
 It's a goddamn bunion. It'll heal. 
 Okay, tell you what: I'll get her number for you just as soon as she gets back from Japan. 
 You've heard of mail-order brides? Well they go that way, too. 
 Fetched a pretty penny, too. Don't forget, it's the Sumo culture, they pay by the pound there. Sort of like tuna. 
 Hey, look on the bright side-- 
 Well...at least now you know. 
 I'm sorry, it's just that you're taking this all wrong, pal. Don't you see? You're liberated. I feel liberated. I mean here you've been in therapy thinking you blew it with the greatest girl ever, and it turns out that getting your dick stuck in your zipper was the best thing that ever happened to you! 
 Christ, Ted, I was only four towns away. 
 What? On your day off? Do you even know the guy? 
 Jesus, Ted, you've got to finish that damn novel so you can quit that stupid magazine. 
 Hit a house! Bite bite! (to Mary) Haven't swung the wrenches in a while. 
 Yeah, don't talk in someone's backswing. 
 Thanks. 
 (annoyed) No thanks. 
 Oh cripes. Do you have change for a dollar? All I have is these stupid Nepalese coins. 
 (interested) Nepal? Have you been? 
 Not in months. I don't even know why I bought the damn place. 
 You own a home there? 
 Well...it's just a condo really. Right outside Katmandu. 
 Wow. That's a place I've always wanted to go. Is it true the mountains are so tall you can't see the tops? 
 Not 'til you get about three hundred yards from the summit. That's been my experience anyway. 
 (smiles) Thanks. 
 Well, it was nice meeting you, again. 
 Same here again. 
 By the way, what's your name? 
 Pat Healy. 
 Don't you want to know my name? 
 I already know it, Mary. 
 (surprised) How'd you know that? 
 It's right there on your golf bag. 
 What are you doing with all these blueprints? 
 Some buildings I'm working on. 
 Are you...an architect? 
 Well, just until I get my PGA Tour card. 
 What's that? 
 I work with retards. 
 (taken aback) I beg your pardon? 
 You know... (flaps lips with fingers) ...the guys who ride the short bus. 
 (put off) Isn't that a little politically incorrect? 
 The hell with that. No one's gonna tell me who I can and can't work with. 
 No, I mean 
 --There's this one kid, we call him Mongo on account of he's a mongoloid. He got out of his cage once and-- 
 --He's in a cage?! 
 Well it's more of an enclosure really. 
 They keep him confined? That's bullshit! 
 That's what I said, so I went out and got him a leash you know, one of those clothesline runners for the backyard. He's got plenty of room out there to dig. The kid's really blossomed. Now I can take him to ball games, movies--you know, happy stuff. 
 That sounds like fun. 
 Yeah, it's fun for them, but it's heaven for me. (getting emotional) Those goofy bastards are just about the best thing I have in this crazy old world. (checks watch) Ooh, hey, I gotta run. 
 (won back over) Look, uh, I was thinking maybe we should go have dinner sometime. 
 DR. LALONDE (smirking) So...I see you made the news. 
 DR. LALONDE (dubious) Uh-huh. Where was he? 
 DR. LALONDE Yeah, that's more or less what the others said, too. Out getting coffee...supposed to meet him here...picking up my grandma... 
 DR. LALONDE Who? 
 DR. LALONDE From high school Mary? Yeah, I saw her about six months ago at a convention in Las Vegas. 
 DR. LALONDE I'm an orthopedic surgeon, she's an orthopedic surgeon. 
 What? 
 Huh? But why did Healy? 
 No You mean...? 
 The lazy fuck just didn't bother to look her up. 
 Well then you've got to call her, man. 
 So who's the lucky guy? 
 Name's Patrick, I met him at the driving range. 
 Good lookin'? 
 He's no Steve Young. 
 (V.O.) What's he like? 
 (V.O.) I don't know. He's kind of a mook. 
 (V.O.) What's a mook? 
 (V.O.) You know, a mookalone, a schlep. 
 Then why you going out with him if he's a schlep? 
 Come on, Magda 
 (SIGHS) It's like that movie Harold and Maude. 
 I don't watch the new ones. 
 This one's almost thirty years old. It's about a young kid and an old lady who fall in love. 
 That's exactly why I don't watch 'em anymore--it's bullshit! Why the hell would an old lady go for a young kid? 
 The point is, love isn't about money or social standing or age, it's about connecting with someone, having things in common kindred spirits. 
 Fuck kindred spirits. My little Puffy here's gonna tell you all you need to know about this guy in about two seconds flat. If he starts yapping, he's a loser; if Puffy's relaxed...well, you got yourself a keeper. 
 (baby talk) Oh, Pufferball likes his little tum-tum rubbed, doesn't he now? 
 Wow, I've never seen him like this. He doesn't usually like guys. 
 You mean he doesn't like bad guys. 
 'That right? 
 He can tell you're an animal nut. You are, aren't ya? 
 Truth is I usually get along better with animals than with people. In Nepal the villagers call me 'Kin-tan-tee', which means 'man who is loved by many animals... (babbling) ...who love him a lot, too...and so on.' 
 Would you like a glass of tea or something? 
 You got a brew? 
 Sure. (noticing Magda's trance) Uh, Magda, why don't you get some more cheese and crackers...? 
 Oh, yeah, of course, dear. 
 (O.S.) (CALLING out) Sorry, Pat, out of beer. You like vodka? 
 (CALLING out) Great. 
 (O.S.) (CALLING out) Would you like a little clam-dip, honey? 
 (CALLING out) No, thanks. (panicking) Love a little bundt cake if you have some! 
 Bundt cake? 
 (shrugs) Must have a sweet tooth. See if you can find some cookies. 
 (quietly, desperately, to Puffy) Come on, man, stay away from the light! 
. 
. 
 All I had was some Funny Bones--how does that sound, honey? 
 (petting dog) Fine. Fine. 
 Here you go. (sniffs) What's that smell? 
 The museum? I thought we were going out to dinner? 
 We will, but first I have a surprise. 
 A surprise? 
 The architecture exhibit! My friend Tucker is going to be here. He's an architect, too. You guys will have tons to talk about. 
 I know he's around here someplace. 
 (chipper) What say we get outta here and go crush a bucket? 
 We just got here thirty seconds ago. Isn't this stuff great? 
 Deco. 
 Would you call that a portico or a vestibule? 
 That...? Vestibule. 
 How about--? 
 When you look at architecture, try not to concern yourself with the pieces--look at the building in its totalitarianism. 
 Tucker! 
 (still hugging) Come on, like you mean it. 
 Tucker, this is my friend Pat Healy. Healy and Tucker shake hands. 
 Pleasure to meet you, Patrick. 
 Same here. 
 Pat's an architect, too. 
 Hey, no kidding? Where are your offices? 
 (keeping cool) Mainly I work out of Boston. 
 Boston, huh? Did you get your degree up there? 
 Yes yes, I did get my degree up there. 
 Harvard? 
 You bet. 
 (pleased) Did you study under Kim Greene? 
 Among others. 
 Kim and I are close friends! 
 Well, I'll tell her I ran into you. 
 You mean him. 
. 
 Well...that's debatable. 
 Really? But he's been married for twenty years--they've got six kids. 
 Nice smokescreen, isn't it? 
 Pat does projects all over the world. 
 (impressed) Where would I have seen your work? 
 Have you been to (thinking hard) Let's see--Santiago, Chile? 
 Absolutely! I was there twice last year. Which building is yours? 
 Do you know the...soccer stadium? 
 Did you build the Estadio Olympico? 
 No...just down the street, the Amigo Tower. 
 I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with it. What style? 
 Uh, sort of nouveau deco...with a big vestibule. Check it out next time you're up there. 
 You know, I really should take your card. 
 (noticing something) Oh look, it's Doob! Will you excuse me a minute, Tucker? 
 (to Man) Dooby, you old sheep-fucker! How the hell are ya? 
 My name's Mel. 
 Oh, sorry. Anyone ever tell you you look just like Jim Dubois? 
 The sheepfucker? 
 Thanks for picking me up. 
 I know how you feel--I been standing in the same spot for the last five hours. You know it's against the law to pick up a hitchhiker in this state. 
 Sucks. So what's up? You some kind of salesman or something? 
 Oh. Well I am. 
 A salesman--that's what I am. I mean, I'm gonna be anyway. I'm starting my own company--video sales--just as soon as I get enough seed money. 
 Yeah, you wouldn't believe my idea--it's a home run. You ever hear of Eight-Minute Abs? 
 Two million copies it sold last year. Two million, man. But not next year--my idea's gonna blow them outta the water. Get this: (dramatic pause) Seven-Minute Abs. 
. 
 (big smile) Think about it. You walk into a video store and you see Eight-Minute Abs and right next to it you see Seven-Minute Abs--which one you gonna spring for? 
 Bingo. Especially since we guarantee you'll get every bit as good a work-out. 
 Well it's the company motto: 'If you ain't happy we'll send you the extra minute.' 
 (O.S.) THIS IS A RAID! 
. 
 Yeah, I'll bet you all were. Come on, in the truck. 
 Oh my God. Is that...? 
 DOM'S WIFE (matter-of-fact) Told you he was gay. 
 T.V. (V.O.) We'll be right back with more of our special edition of COPS - LIVE IN THE 
! 
 That grandmother of yours--she's really something. 
 Magda? She's not my grandmother--actually she rents the apartment right next to mine. Her husband passed away a couple years ago so she doesn't like to be alone. 
 And it doesn't cramp your style? 
 Sadly, no. Well except for the lint. 
 Lint? 
 Yeah, I think it's that dog of hers running around on the rug all day--just makes for a lot of lint. Look at this... 
 You know, sometimes I wish I could be like Magda and not go home. I'd like to just bounce around for awhile, do a little traveling... 
 Why bounce when you have your own condo in Nepal to go to? 
 Ah, I'd sell that. Start fresh in a new place, quit the architect game, slow things down, read more books, see more movies... 
 You're a movie buff? 
 Try to be. It's tough going with the crap they make today. If Dumb and Dumber's the best they've got to offer I say thanks but no thanks. 
 Have you seen it? 
 No. But the Boston Globe critic Jay Carr hated it. 
 A fucking moron. 
 Huh. I guess I just wish they made them like they used to. You know, something like The Heartbreak Kid...or Harold and Maude. 
 Harold and Maude is my all-time favorite movie. 
 Ouch. Come on, don't bust my chops. I know it's corny, but I do love it. 
 Pat, I'm not kidding. I really think it's the greatest-- 
 --Love story of our time. 
 Yeah. 
 Wow. I thought I was the only one. 
 So... 
 Yeah...I guess this is it, huh? 
 I guess. 
 Well, I'll see ya. 
 What? 
 No, forget it, it was stupid. 
 Come on, what were you going to say? 
 Nah, really, it was moronic. 
 Just say it. 
 Could I feel your bosoms before I go? 
 Okey-dokey, so tomorrow night? 
 Man, they never look like you'd expect. 
 That's probably how he got the victim to drop his guard. 
 Where'd they find the body? 
 In a big red bag on the front passenger seat. All hacked up--fucking gruesome--a real psycho, this one. 
 Okay, calm down, Ted, we believe you. (beat) The problem is we found your friend in the car. 
 (CHUCKLES) That's what this is all about. 
 So you admit it? 
 Well, uh, can you tell us his name? 
 So he was a stranger? It was totally random? 
 First tell us why you did it. 
 This wasn't your first time, was it, Ted? How many we talking? 
 You sonofabitch! You're gonna fry!!!! 
 Mornin', Jane. 
 #1 Good morning, Doctor. Your friend Tucker's in your office to see you. 
 What's up, Doc? 
 Tucker, you look different some how. Did you do something with your hair? 
 The teeth, the teeth. I got 'em capped. 
 Oh yeah, they look great. 
 (V.O.) You don't think they're too big? 
 (V.O.) No no, the bigger the better. (beat) But I must say, they could be a little brighter. Nothing's sexier than a mouthful of pearly whites. 
 You ever been laid in this office? 
 Behave yourself, Tucker. (smiles) Come on, what are you doing here? 
 I wanted to talk to you about your friend Patrick. 
 (O.S.) He's a nice guy, isn't he? 
 (O.S.) Well that's what I'm trying to figure out. How long have you known him? 
 Not long at all, but I really like him. (off Tucker's look) Okay, I know he's a little different, Tucker, but that's what I like about him. He's a guy. A real guy. He dresses like a dork and eats corndogs and he isn't always politically correct and he probably farts, too. And that's okay with me. 
 That's what you've been looking for--a farter? 
 I've been looking for a guy--not one of these South Beach pussies. 
 
 (SIGHS) Look, it's just that something about him struck me as odd last night. He gave me this funny vibe. Anyway, I called some friends back east. They don't know of any architect named Patrick Healy and he's not listed as a Harvard alumnus. 
 Fuck!! 
 (O.S.) Huh...that's strange. 
 I thought so. Anyway, I hope you don't think I'm being meddlesome. I just think you should be careful with this guy. 
 (concerned) No no no, Tucker, thank you. 
 I mean let's face it, Mary, you're beautiful, you've got money, you trust people--I'm just saying, there's a lot of psychos out there. 
 (small smile) I appreciate you looking out for me. 
 On behalf of the entire South Carolina law enforcement community, I would like to offer our heartfelt apologies for any pain or temporary inconvenience we may have caused you, Mr. Peloquin. 
 At exactly 10:48 this morning a man was apprehended not far from where you were arrested. He was identified as an escaped mental patient and subsequently confessed to the murder that you were being held for. Lab tests confirmed a fingerprint match on the bag. 
 No harm, no foul? 
 By the way, there's somebody here to see you. 
 You are one lucky sonofabitch, you know that? 
 Didn't they tell you? That hitcher was just about to cut your throat when you stopped to take a leak. You got a fucking horseshoe up your ass, man. 
 Flew. (beat) Told my wife I was going to a Promise Keepers convention. 
 Remember our friend Healy? Well, I didn't know where to mail his last paycheck so I sent my assistant by his mother's apartment. Turns out there is no diabetic mom. Landlord said she's been dead for ten years. 
 Don't you see?--Healy lied to us about everything! The landlord said when he got back from Miami he kept talking about falling for some doctor named Mary! 
 His address in Miami. You know, when you think about it, we really don't know the first thing about this guy. 
 You're not seriously thinking about going out with this guy again? 
 Mary, he sounds like a psycho! 
 Would you hens quit ya cackling and let her do what she wants to do. Puffy liked him and Puffy's never wrong. 
 Mary, the guy's full of shit. 
 What if he's not? What if Tucker just made an honest mistake? 
 What if he didn't? 
 I don't know how I can bail now, he's going to be here any minute. 
 Well then blow him off when he gets here. 
 But you didn't meet him. He seems so I don't know...perfect...kind of. 
 He has a big cock, doesn't he? 
 Hey hey, what did you say Pat's last name was? 
 Healy. 
 I think you better listen to this. 
 (V.O.) Ah, I got a date tonight with that Mary girl I told you about. 
 (V.O.) Yep. 
 We hit the motherlode. 
 We shouldn't be listening to this. 
 (V.O.) Oh yeah. 
 Mr. Perfect, huh? 
 (edgy) Turn it up, Magda. 
 (V.O.) Hey, watch your mouth--she's a great gal. I'm the dumbshit for lying to her. 
 (V.O.) I don't know. I guess...it just seems that women today are more impressed by the mighty buck than by some schmo who spent the last seventeen years scraping by on Peace Corp wages. 
 (dismissing this) Ahh. 
. 
 (welling up) I love this man. 
 Look, I did all those things for myself. I'll be honest with you, I'm a selfish prick. I get a high from helping all of God's creatures. An honest to goodness high. 
 (V.O.) Uh, sure. I cured a lot of nasty illnesses in third-world countries. 
 (SIGHS) I lied to this poor girl. Lied. man. She deserved better. 
 (V.O.) You said it, mister. (choking up) I gotta go. 
 (startled) Oh Mary. Look, there's something I have to tell you. I'm not 
 All set. 
 You look great. (beat) Hey, Mare, do I have a rip in the back of these pants? 
. 
 No! You've gone through way too much to back down now. Get over there and do something--I can't stand watching this. 
 Whoa, whoa, how's my stomach taste? 
 How's my stomach taste, she says. (shakes head) Hey thanks for picking up the lunch tab, Mare. Sorry I forgot my wallet. I feel like a dog. 
 Forget it. It was...fun. 
 Franks and beans! 
 Beans and franks. 
 Give it a rest, War. You just ate. 
 Aw, leave him alone, he's just got a big appetite. (to Warren) Am I right? 
 Huh? 
 I said you've got a big app-- 
 Warren! 
 Attaboy! 
 Are you okay? 
 (cornered) Sure. 
 Well? What are you waiting for? 
 Tell her the truth about Healy! Blow the schmuck out of the water. 
 Get over there, you pussy! She's leaving! 
 (squinting) Who's that? 
 Oh my God...Ted. (big smile) What are you...? I can't believe this. I haven't seen you since-- 
 And did everything--? 
 Good, Ted. Piggy back ride? 
 I can't believe he remembered you. He never remembers anybody. (beat) You know I tried to call you for weeks after that. 
 That's weird. I talked to your brother Jimmy five or six times. 
 (taken aback) Oh, Ted I'm so sorry to hear that. 
 Oh. So...what brings you down here? 
 Well you look great. Are you married, do you have kids? 
 Actually, it's Mary Brooks now. 
 Nope, haven't walked the plank yet. (off his look) There was this guy back in college who was bothering me...got kind of ugly--a restraining order, the whole bit. Anyway, when I got out of Princeton I changed my name as a precaution. 
. 
 Didn't we just do that? 
 Tell me where you're staying. I'll pick you up at eight. 
 (V.O.) I'm buying bananas tonight. 
 (V.O.) Why? 
 (V.O.) Back when I was your age I always used to make myself a big banana split after sex. I think you're gonna need one tonight. 
 (V.O.) Don't get ahead of yourself. You'll probably need it before I will. 
 Don't bet on it. Last time I had a pap smear the guy needed leather gloves and an oyster shucker. 
 So maybe I could find a nice gentleman to take you to the movies. 
 Knock it off, Pollyanna, just 'cause you're in love doesn't mean everyone else has to be. 
 Love? Come on, I wouldn't call it love. 
 Oh no? I ain't seen you beaming like this since you broke ninety on the Blue Monster. 
 (V.O. ) Well I am pretty psyched. I ran into a guy today I hadn't seen since high school. 
 (V.O.) An old flame? 
 (V.O.) Kind of. Ted Peloquin--one of the sweetest guys in the world. 
 
 No!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
 Do I sense a chill in the air? 
 Oh, Magda, I let my head get in the way of my love life. I always pick guys on what I feel in here. (pats heart) But with this Pat guy my head kept saying &quot;Grow up, Mary. You have a lot in common with this one, you'll grow to feel something for him.&quot; But it never happened. 
 (jovial voice) Hey, Patty-boy here. Sorry I missed ya, but I'm out rustling up some champagne and roses in preparation for the greatest birthday of my life. Hope you and yours are having a good day, too. 
 Uh, hi Pat, it's me, Mary. Just wanted to say I'm...looking forward to tonight. 
 You vicious bitch, how do you sleep at night? 
 I can't do it--I just found out it's his birthday. (sighs) I guess I've gotta cancel on Ted. 
 (surprised) Tucker...come on in. 
 (V.O.) Well look who's here. 
 There she is--I brought you a little thirst-quencher, Mag. 
 Oh, you are sweet. 
 No, I'm not. I just want to get you-drunk so you'll pass out and I can have my way with Mary. 
 Can I pour you one? 
 Thanks, but I've got to be going. Unfortunately, Doc, this isn't a social visit. 
 What's up? 
 Well...I've got a little more news about your friend Healy. 
 I know what you're going to say, but he already told me everything. I know he's not an architect. 
 Tucker, I appreciate you doing all this, but I'm really strapped for time here and-- 
 Mary, the man's a killer. 
 (stunned) What...? 
 I've got a friend in the Boston police department. He faxed me this this morning. I'll just give you the highlights. (reading from rap sheet) After a short stint as a petty thief, Patrick R. Healy graduated to armed robbery by the age of fourteen. At sixteen he committed his first murder--a pretty teacher's aid named Molly Pettygrove. He was incarcerated until age twenty-two when, despite a grim psychological profile, the state was forced to release him. In his mid-twenties and again in his early thirties he was suspected of homicides in the states of Utah and Washington. Unfortunately, the bodies were so badly decomposed that there wasn't enough evidence to hold him, and on and on and so forth and so on. 
 (V.O.) Holy shit... 
 (V.O.) Puffy, get over here. 
 
 Magda! 
 The little shit lied to me about that guy! 
 (growing emotional) I can't believe this is happening. I'm supposed to be meeting him in an hour. 
 Okay, just calm down. It's going to be okay. 
 Why you two never hooked up is beyond me. 
 Magda's right, I'm so lucky to have you in my life. 
 Don't get all gooey on me now, you'll give me a big head. (smiles) The important thing, Doctor, is you've got to distance yourself as much as possible without pissing this psycho off. 
 Yeah, yeah. Okay, I think I know what to do. I'll call him right now. 
 Hi, I'm out drinking champagne and roses...and I'm really happy. Leave a message. BEEP. 
 (V.O.) (nervous) Uh, hey buddy. Oh boy, am I pissed. You're not going to believe this--well, you'll believe it, there's no reason not to--but I just got beeped for emergency surgery. Well, um, sorry, but I'm going to have to bail on you. 
 (under breath) You're gonna pay, fucker. 
 Just relax. Have you hit the cash machine? 
 Car clean? Plenty of gas? 
 Mints? 
 Okay, sounds like you're all set. Just clean the pipes and it's a go. 
 You know, clean the pipes. 
 You jerk off before all big dates, right? Tell me you jerk off before your big dates. 
 Why's that? 
 Wrong. It's because you ain't got the baby batter in your brain any more. That'll fuck with your head, that stuff will. 
 The most honest moment in a man's life is the five minutes after he's blown a load. That's a medical fact. And it's because you're no longer trying to get laid. You're actually thinking like a girl. They love that. 
 You bet your ass I'm right. You don't go out with a loaded gun, you empty the barrels! 
 People get hurt that way. 
 Hi, Ted. 
 Thanks. 
 On your ear, you've got something. 
. 
 Oh great, I ran out. 
 (cowering) Okay, Pat, take it easy--don't do anything stupid. 
 Who the fuck do you think you are making up that bullshit about me?! 
 Whoa, whoa--I don't know what you're talking about. 
 Maybe this'll jog your memory. 
 Okay, okay, I might've gotten some bad information. 
 That stalker Ted got to you, right? You're working for him, aren't you, you little shit? 
 Who? 
 This is your last chance, you fuck. Now either you come clean or I'm going to kick your ass from here to Tallahassee. 
 I LOVE HER, OKAY?! 
 You what? 
 You heard me, goddamnit. I...I love her. 
 What do you mean? 
 I mean I'm a fucking fraud. I'm no architect. Don't be a putz--who's been to Santiago twice in a year? (scoffing) Estadio Olimpico--please! 
 But...but you knew people at Harvard. 
 I knew shit. The only thing I knew was that you were a fake and I made up everything else. (sighs) My real name's Norm. I deliver pizzas. 
 Bullshit! 
 Madame? 
 Thank you. 
 I mean he murdered someone and did time back in Boston. The guy's a freak. 
 Well, lucky for me I found out. Thank God I have friends like Tucker. (beat) Look, I'm sick of talking about stalkers. (big smile) Let's talk about you. 
 ...So then in '94 I went back to Dade Community College for a semester and when the Wal-Mart cashier job fell through I hooked up with the Pizza Barn. 
 And you met Mary how? 
 Just dumb luck. I delivered a pie to her one night and she answered the door in her nightgown--that was it for me. I went home that night, shaved my beard, and a week later I was laid out in her office with a broken back. 
 How'd you manage that one? 
 (matter-of-factly) Friend. Baseball bat. 
 Nice. 
 Oh yeah, the plan was going along just fine until you showed up. 
 Hey, hey, hey, I'm not the one who started telling bald-faced lies about the competition--that's crossing the line! 
 What line? The day you first laid your oily rap on my future wife you started a war! 
 Future wife? Get real, man--you're nothing more than a glorified brother in her eyes. 
 Why you son of a-- 
 Okay, calm down, calm down--the bottom line is neither of us are going to get her if we don't do something about that headcase she's with now. 
 You hit the ball pretty good for a fourteen. 
 We should play some time...I mean, if you can afford to lose some money. 
 Twenty-two. 
 Okay, sometimes I'm a nineteen. 
 COUNTER-MAN You got it. 
 Nitrate-sicles--I like that. 
 I agree there should be more. 
 I like it. And think of the toppings--cheese, mushrooms, mint jelly 
 It's too bad you don't live down here, Ted. 
 We've got a lot in common. 
 Ah, my roots here are too deep. I love my practice, the people I work with, Warren's got a nice thing going (joking) Why don't you just move down here and marry me? 
 So you're a writer? 
 Well good for you. I bet it works out for you. 
 That's right. And the good thing is you can do it anywhere. 
 I don't know...My friends think I'm too picky. I think I'm just a weirdo magnet. I did come close once--just last year, in fact. There was this guy he lived in San Francisco. 
 (WHISPERING) That stalkin' son-of-a-bitch! 
 Fucking sickening. 
. 
 How many is that? 
 Four. 
 That seems like a lot of speed for a little pooch--you sure it won't kill him? 
 I never said that. 
 ... and then it was all over. 
 (SIGHS) We haven't spoken since. 
 Yeah...almost. (beat) You want to come up and watch Sportscenter? 
 Ted...you're not that far ahead. 
 (alarmed) Why not? 
 That's really sweet, Ted, but you should save it for one of your books. 
 Magda, what are you doing? 
 Oh, hi hon. Just straightening up. 
 Where's Puffy? 
 Ah, he was being a pest so I put him in the bathroom. 
 (to Ted, concerned) Um, Ted, I need a moment with Magda--would you let the dog out of the bathroom. 
 (O.S.) (CALLING out) Toy poodle! 
. 
 Stop it, you're hurting him! 
 
 
 
 Did you hire Pat Healy to follow me around? 
 It's not true...right, Ted? 
 Get out. 
 That you put a murderer on my trail? 
 What did you think, Ted? That you could spy on me and trick me into thinking you were someone I could...really go for? 
 Then what the fuck did you do it for? 
 (softly) Please leave. 
 Go! 
. 
 Ho-ly shit. 
 Hey, this is a pretty nice place. 
 Sully...! What the fuck happened here?! 
 Hey, buddy, don't do anything rash now. 
 He's in love with Mary, too. 
 (righteous) What do you mean 'why'? 
 I think everybody could use a drink. 
 Look, you asked me to follow your girl around, and I did and I started to like her, and then I realized I just couldn't in good conscience do it. 
 Turn her over to a stalker. 
 That's right--if you weren't you would've looked for her yourself! 
 Yeah well fuck you! You just can't stand the fact that it was my turn. 
 (getting emotional) That's right, hot shot! My turn. What's the matter with me, huh? Why can't I ever get the great girl? Give the big pig with the B.O. to Healy, right? Well I was sick of it, man! No more--it was my turn. It was time for me...time for me...to be happy. 
 I don't know what you're talking about. 
 What? 
 Why the fuck would I do that? I'd be screwing myself. 
 What? 
 You fucking prick, we had a deal--you said you wouldn't fuck me and I wouldn't fuck you until we had this fuck out of the fucking picture. (moves in on Tucker) You crossed the line, man. 
 Whoa, whoa, you're getting crazy now. Why would I cross the line--what do you think I got no pride? 
 Oh that makes a lot of sense. Why would I rat myself out? 
 Like I'm going to try to figure out a guy who's idea of courting is blowing farts in the chick's face 
 You were following us? 
 Don't flatter yourself--I was following her, I always do. How the hell you think I got rid of Mary's boyfriend Steve? 
 Are you shitting me--Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes? He was like a fucking eagle scout. You two should be kissing my balls--if it wasn't for me, she might've married that schmuck! 
 (sadly) Oh...Sully. 
 Look, if it wasn't you who sent the letter, and it wasn't me who sent it? 
 Woogie? What are what are you doing here? 
 Did you get my letter, Mare? The one about Ted? 
 You sent that? 
 Uh-huh. I was worried about you. 
 Well...thank you. But...you know you're not supposed to be within four hundred yards of me. 
 (excited) That's what I want to tell ya. I've been through two years of extensive psychotherapy and you know what? You were right--I needed help. 
 (cautious) That's great, Woogie, I'm happy you're better--you seem...good--but...you put me through quite an ordeal, you know. 
 Look at me. 
 Woogie, I caught you red-handed. 
 All right, I did, but I was in a weird place then. 
 (V.O.) Woogie, please, you're starting to scare me. 
 Who the hell's Woogie? 
 I'm asking you to leave. 
 (gentle) Oh, Mary, honey, you're taking this all wrong. (beat) I'm not leaving... 
 (V. O . ) (clearly struggling) Stop that! No! Somebody help me!!!!! 
 Stop it! 
 Just one pair! You owe me that much, you heartless bitch! 
 Dom, you're pathetic, fucking over your friend Ted like that. 
 What? You fucked him over, too. 
 He's no friend of mine. 
 What the hell's going on here? 
 We're in love with your roommate. 
 Aw, Christ, I can't take it anymore. I'm gonna pack my bags and go back to my own place. 
 Tucker, where are your crutches? 
 (British accent) Interesting query, Mary... 
 Shut the fuck up and tell her the truth. 
 Well isn't this nice--now we've got the whole gang together. 
 You stole her from me. Now I want her back. 
 (rolling eyes) Woogie and I went out for awhile in high school. 
 Dom Wooganowski. Duh. 
 If you're so happy with them, please, be my guest. 
 If I may I have a proposal. 
 Are you crazy? Why would I pick you? You're a murderer. 
 Uh, well...not exactly. You see, I exaggerated a little there. 
 You mean he's not a criminal? 
 God no! (pleased) I'm just a pathological liar! 
 Tucker...not you, too? 
 Name's Norm. I live up in Pompano with my folks. 
 Oh Jesus... 
 Hi, Mary. 
 What the hell is Brett Favre doing here? 
 We're in town to play the Dolphins. 
 That's right, Mare. And you know I'll always be true to you. 
 Aw shit, this isn't fair. 
 Oh please... 
 Don't listen to him, Mary. It's a ploy. 
 You are so full of shit, Strohman. Are you going to stand here and tell us that you aren't in love with this girl? 
 Huh...? 
 Bye, Ted. 
 Hey, Brett, any chance I can get you to autograph one of these pumps for me? 
 Ted! 
 You forgot your keys! 
 Did you mean what you said back there, Ted? 
 But I think I'd be happiest...with you. 
 Oh yeah, that'd make golf real fun--the guy doesn't even drink beer or gamble. 
 Really. 
 Ted, no, no....! 
 I love you too, Ted. (beat) I think I always have. 
 Over here! I found his foot! It was in the storm drain! 
 
