 
. 
 A 
 Soul of the Age! The applause, delight, the wonder of our stage! Our Shakespeare, rise... (beat, repeating) Our Shakespeare... For he is all of ours, is he not? The most performed playwright of all time! The author of 37 plays, 154 sonnets, and several epic poems that are collectively known as the ultimate expressions of humanity in the English language. And yet... And yet... (beat) Not a single manuscript of any kind has ever been found written in Shakespeare's own hand. In four hundred years, not one document-- be it poem, play, diary or even a simple letter. (beat) He was born the son of a glove-maker, and at some unknown time, armed with but an elementary school education, he went to London where, the story goes, he became an actor and eventually a playwright. 
 
 
 PROLOGUE (CONT'D) He died at the age of 56, and was survived by his wife and two daughters who were, like Shakespeare's own father, irrefutably illiterate. 
 
. 
 PROLOGUE (O.C.) (CONT'D) His will famously left his second best bed to his widow. But it made no mention of a single book or manuscript. 
 
 PROLOGUE (CONT'D) Is it possible Shakespeare owned no books at his death because... he could not read? That he wrote no letters because he, like his father before him and his children after him, could not write? (lets that sink in, then) Our Shakespeare is a cypher, a ghost; his biography made not by history... but by conjecture. His story not written with facts, but with... imagination. 
 PROLOGUE (CONT'D) (more energetic) So! Let me offer you a different story. A darker story... Of quills and swords. Of power and betrayal. Of a stage conquered, and a throne lost! 
 Break it down! 
 POLE (CONT'D) Again! 
 Jonson!   Jonson!!    Show yourself! 
 
 POLE (CONT'D) Out with you! Jonson! We'll smoke you out like a rat if we have to! (beat) Jonson?! Jonson!! 
 POLE (CONT'D) (to a soldier) Torch it. 
 POLE (CONT'D) Torch it!   All of you! 
 
 
 A 
 
 You are Benjamin Jonson, playwright? Son of William Jonson, glass-blower, son of James Jonson brick-layer? 
 INTERROGATOR (CONT'D) And have you ever been arrested before, Mr. Jonson? 
 I'm a writer, aren't I?   Of course I've bloody well been-- 
 Ask him about the plays. 
 (to the Interrogator) Plays? (to the Figure) Which would you prefer, my lord? A pastoral? An historical? An historical-pastoral, or an hysterical historical pastoral-- 
 We are not interested in your plays, Jonson. We are interested in the plays given to you by Edward de Vere, Earl of Oxford. 
 I'm sorry my lord, but I am not sure I know whereof you speak. I have had the honor of meeting his lordship-- 
 Where are the plays? 
 (O.S.) Well? 
 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) Wonderful, isn't it? 
 (frowning slightly) Well, it's certainly... big. 
 I promise you, Edward, you've seen nothing like it before! Nothing! 
 Bricklayers and whores watching Aristophones?   You're quite right, Henry, not only have I never witnessed it, I'm not sure I care to. 
 (teasing) You're an elitist, you know that, Edward? 
 There won't be puppets, will there? 
 My lords... 
 The stage-craft is quite spectacular. Far more elaborate than anything I've seen at court. I've witnessed be- headings that god as my witness look as real as at the Tower, cannons fired in battle... 
 SELLING-MAID Ale?   Mutton, mi' lord? 
 ...and last week, they had some sort of a device to hoist cherubs into the air and fly over the entire audience! 
 An apò mekhanes theós. Deus ex machina. Machine of the Gods. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Whenever the Greeks wrote their heroes into a situation from which they couldn't write their way out-- 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) --Out came the apò mekhanes theós... As when Hippolytus is saved by Artemis, or Medea flown to Athens... Always good for an apò mekhanes theós was Euripides 
 ON-STAGE 
 And whither were you riding now, signior? 
 O, pardon me, sir, twenty places more; your hot-house, your pig-house, or your whore-house! 
 
 (takes a swig of ale) His second play, and almost a full house. (burps) He's got a wit, does Jonson. 
 That might be so, but like a grain of wheat hid in a bushel of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find it, and when you have it, it's not worth the search! 
 Ale!   Ale!! 
 Marlowe-- spot me a few pence, will you? Henslowe still owes me for "Shoemaker's Holiday". 
 (retrieving coins) That would be because no one saw "Shoemaker's Holiday". 
 Ale here! 
 Kit... Isn't that one of your unrequited loves in the box over there? 
 (frowns) But with whom? Tell me not he prefers the company of such old grey men as that! 
 I think-- yes, by the beard, that's the Earl of Oxford. Old Tom Hooker used to play for him. Had his own acting troupe for private Court performances and the like. 
 I wonder if he needs any material? 
 Certainly not any of yours. 
 No, no-- that was years ago. Had a falling out with the Queen, I heard. He's more of a recluse than a patron these days. 
 
 Who, he, the noble there? Why, he's a gull, a fool, no salt in him i' the earth; man, he looks like a fresh salmon kept in a tub! 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) He sleeps with a musk-cat every night, and walks all day hang'd in perfumed chains for penance. 
 
 
 He has his skin tann'd in civet, to make his complexion strong, and the sweetness of his youth lasting in the sense of his sweet lady. And, sadly, the poor man's brain is lighter than his feather... 
 A 
 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) He is a good and empty puff, but he loves you well, signior. I wish you well with him. 
 
 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) Jonson! Wonderful dialogue! Wonderful. I hope your next-- 
 (O.C.) Will!   Will Shakespeare! 
 HENSLOWE (CONT'D) That's not ale in that goblet is it? 
 Ale? Me? Drink during a performance? I am a professional sir! (burps) A complete and-- 
 This play has been declared seditious and illegal by Lord William Cecil! 
 POLE (CONT'D) All are herewith ordered to disperse immediately! 
 Arrest that man! 
 Damn it all.    Well! Off to Essex's then? 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) Edward? 
 
 (to Pole) Seditious? Seditious?! It's a comedy for god's sake! There's nothing seditious about-- 
 Oi, is that right, is it?    And you know this because? 
 Because I wrote the bloody thing!      And- - 
 Arrest him as well! 
 (to the door) A pox on you! (beat) And your carbuncled father! 
 (O.S.) People taxed to the point of starvation, Spain running the New World, open revolt in Ireland, Catholic plots everywhere you turn... 
 ...and how do the Cecils spend their time and energy? Shutting a theater! A theater, for god's sake? It's madness! No wonder the mob hates them so! 
 Out! 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) (to Southampton) Henry, how many people were at that play? 
 Hmm? I'm not sure, two thousand, maybe more. 
 And how many performances are there of a play like that? 
 Five or six I suppose. 
 By the--! 
 (to Essex) So! Ten thousand souls. All listening to the writings of one man-- the ideas of one man. That's power, Robert. And if there is one thing the Cecils understand, it's power. 
 (snorts) And when did words ever win a kingdom? I think I'll keep my sword, thank you very much. 
 (to the valets) Leave us. (they exit) Henry... Some of my men have... intercepted... some of William Cecil's recent correspondence with King James of Scotland... 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) Cecil's all but promising him the throne... 
 To James?   Elizabeth would never agree to- 
 Elizabeth is old. Ill. Not of her old mind. Sometimes she doesn't even recognize me. And yet, still she refuses to name an heir. 
 But a Scotsman? On the Tudor throne? 
 You are not in the Privy Council. Elizabeth does everything the Cecils wish of her. Everything! 
 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) Think, Henry, if James owes Cecil his throne, Cecil will have more influence in the next reign than he does in this one. And after William Cecil, his hunch-backed son will take his place... (careful) That is why we must do everything in our power to ensure that the right man succeeds her. (beat) A man deserving of the Tudor crown. 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) I ask you for the support of you and your men, Henry.... if it comes to a fight. 
 You know you need not ask. I stand with you, as I always have. 
 Essex played rather poorly, didn't he? 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) (warning) Henry... The Cecils brook no rivals. 
 (re: his discussion with Essex) You heard? 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) Always concerned for me, aren't you Edward? 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) And what would you have me do? 
 I would have you deny him. 
 The son of the Queen? 
 That is rumor only, Henry-- 
 Rumor? My god, all you have to do is look at Essex to see the Queen's reflection. Everyone thinks he's her son, everyone! And I for one would rather bow to a Tudor, bastard though he may be, than a Scotsman! 
 I desire nothing more than to see the next king be the rightful king. But what Essex contemplates will surely lead to Civil War. (beat) No. If this is to be done, it must be done carefully, skillfully. 
 As I heard it, Elizabeth exiled you from her presence for the last twenty years because of your "skill" at Court politics. 
 I only have your interests in mind, Henry. For as you so rightly point out, my interests are already lost. 
 I know. Forgive me. You know how I feel about you. You have been a great friend to me ever since my father died. I promise you that I will do nothing rash without consulting you first. 
 Henry! Will you do me one thing more? Deliver a gift for me? A rather... elaborate gift? 
 Sir Robert. 
 My lord of Southampton. (looking around) Have you seen Essex? 
 I believe he is still in the viewing chamber with her majesty... 
 (sharp, annoyed) Alone? 
 (smiles) With your father in London dealing with all the troubles in Ireland, who else should the Queen turn to but Essex? 
 By the grace of god, her majesty, Elizabeth, Queen of England, Wales and Ireland! 
 
 (to Elizabeth) Ah-- Majesty, I've been told my lord of Southampton has a gift for you. 
 (eyes sparkle) A gift? 
 Yes, your grace, though not from me. 
. 
 Are you this gift, my precious little man? 
 No, no, my most majestic majesty. I am a free man. My gift is a play, majesty. 
 A play? 
 (to the Dwarf) Plays are the work of the devil, born from a cesspool of plague, whoredom, thievery, fornication, and heresy. You may tell your master that her majesty-- 
 (interrupting) --Will gladly accept your gift. 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) (to Elizabeth) Of course that is if you so desire, majesty. (to Robert Cecil) The choice is her majesty's to make, not yours. Is that not so Sir Robert? 
 (to the dwarf) Comedy? Or tragedy? 
 Comedy, majesty. 
 (delighted) A comedy! (MORE) 23 pg. 24 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (beat) By whom? 
 By... Anonymous, your majesty... 
 Anonymous...? (then) Oh, but I do so admire his verse... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Lead us to this gift. 
 "QUINCE" (O.S.) Bless thee, Bottom! Bless thee!      Thou art translated! 
 "BOTTOM" I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do what they can. 
 
 "BOTTOM" (CONT'D) I will walk up and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid. 
 
 
 "BOTTOM" (CONT'D) (sings) The ousel cock so black of hue, With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill-- 
 "TITANIA" What angel wakes me from my flow'ry bed? 
 
 
 
 "OBERON" (O.S.) ...and the owner of it blest ever shall in safety rest. Trip away; make no stay; meet me all by break of day. 
 
 "PUCK" If we shadows have offended, think but this, and all is mended, that you have but slumber'd here while these visions did appear... 
 "PUCK" (CONT'D) ...And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream, gentles, do not reprehend; if you pardon, we will mend. 
 
 "PUCK" (CONT'D) So, good night unto you all. Give me your hands, if we be friends, and Robin shall restore amends. 
 Lovely.    Lovely! 
 (O.S.) Ah!    There he is. 
 I did indeed, your majesty. 
 You sport with me. (smiling) Compose something. 
 Now? 
 Yes.   Now. 
 On what subject, your grace? 
 (smiles) Truth... 
 (thinks, then--) For... Truth... is Truth... Though... never so old... and time cannot make that false, which once was true. 
 (to John de Vere) My lord of Oxford. It seems you have added a poet to your family's long line of warriors. 
 Madam, I am as accomplished with the sword and the musket as I am with verse. 
 (amused) Are you indeed? 
 (nods seriously) It is my only desire to one day be your majesty's most trusted servant in matters both of war and state, if you will but have me. 
 (charmed) Why, Lord Cecil, it seems we may very well have found your replacement. 
 We hope not too soon, majesty, we hope not too soon. 
 (teasing) And how liked you our young lord's play, William? 
 That is God's decision, your majesty. Not mine. 
 Well, if plays are indeed such a sin, I pray I do not find my salvation until very late in life. 
 (O.S.) Jonson!    Ben Jonson! 
 GUARD (CONT'D) You've been released. 
 GUARD (CONT'D) Got powerful friends, now, don't you? 
 And who are you? 
 JONSON (CONT'D) And where are we going? 
 
 My lord... 
 The Tudor rose. The most beautiful of flowers, don't you think? 
 It looks to me to have quite a number of thorns, my lord. 
 So it does.   So it does. 
 I am told, my lord, that I owe my freedom to you. 
 That is true. And it was quite hard to come by. One does not cross my father-in-law lightly. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Lord William Cecil. I have the questionable distinction of being married to his only daughter. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) It did, however, serve as helpful when I wrote to your jailers to release you in my father-in-law's name. 
 (in a panicked whisper) My lord-- I'm sorry, does that mean my release is not officially sanctioned? 
 Don't be an idiot Jonson, of course it wasn't. (beat) But you are free, are you not? 
 I enjoyed your little comedy last week, Jonson. You have potential, great potential. 
 Thank you, my lord. 
 But it's politics did seem to have quite an effect on the Tower. My father-in-law's men felt it quite seditious. 
 Politics? My play had nothing to do with politics! It was just a simple comedy-- 
 That showed your betters as fools who go through life barely managing to get food from plate to mouth, were it not for the cleverness of their servants. (beat) All art is political, Jonson. Otherwise it would just be decoration. And all artists have something to say, otherwise... they'd make shoes. And you're not a cobbler, are you, Jonson? 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) (nods) Francesco. 
 A play, my lord? 
 One you shall stage Bankside. 
 Stage? 
 Under your name. 
 My name, my lord? 
 I can't very well use my name, can I? I'm the seventeenth Earl of Oxford. The Lord Great Chamberlain of England, Viscount Bolebec, Lord Escales, Sandford and Badlesmere, etc, etc. No. I have a... reputation to protect. In my world, one does not write plays, Jonson. People like you do. 
 Yes. My lord. You wrote an entire play, my lord. I know how difficult-- 
 Not a play, Jonson, I've written many. No doubt, many more than you yourself. A good number performed at Court years ago, others never seen by a living soul. 
 And you want... me to apply my name to this play? 
 No. I mean you to put your name to all of them. 
 All of them? 
 Well don't look like I just gutted your pet dog, Jonson. I mean to make you the most popular-- and therefore the most monetarily successful-- playwright in all of London. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) I wish you god speed and good morrow. 
 My lord-- I really-- 
 JONSON (CONT'D) My lord? 
 That is for your trouble, Signor Jonson. And your silence. If I hear you break that silence, then... not so good for Signor Jonson. 
 Hello?   My lord?! I-- 
 So! I am gone for three days, and you somehow manage to let her spend all of them solely in the company of the Earl of Essex... 
 He is an Earl, father. I cannot deny him-- 
 Of course not! You don't deny him anything. You find excuses. She is unwell, she is reading, she is seeing the Ambassador from Russia. For God's sake, use your imagination, Robert. Whatever will you do when I am gone? (beat) We will have to deal with Essex soon. His ambitions are becoming a nuisance. 
 Now tell me about the play. 
 It-- it was an anonymous gift. Essex insisted it be performed, just to spite me in front of Court... 
 Of course he did. (concerned) But what was it about? 
 About? Some nonsense about fairies and cherubs. 
 ...And dancing asses? 
 Father...    It was just a play... 
 And do you know how long it took me to banish them from her presence? She adores them! Adores them! And Edward knows it. (beat) Mark my words, Robert, he has done this for a purpose. 
 Purpose?    What purpose? 
 (thinking, to himself) What purpose indeed? (to Robert) But through your carelessness I must now deal not only with Essex, but Edward as well. For whether in shadow or in person, Edward has returned to Court! 
 (O.S) Robert. 
(O.S.) (more commanding) Robert! Come here. 
. 
 I am sorry for your loss, my lord. The realm lost a great lord with your father's death. We hope you will be happy in our house-- 
 (smiles) No.    Only until I reach my maturity. 
 Because the Queen has bade it so. (to Young Oxford) My lord, when we first met, you said you wished to become a great man of State. Both the Queen and I hope to make that so. (MORE) 
 Monsieur. Ca me fait plaisir de vous connaitre. 
 Nine to ten is Greek with Mister Simmons. 
 (in Greek) Dalon, an d'ego, hoti mathamata ge esti ha trafo psychas. 
 (sharp) No.   Plato. 
 (slight frown, then) And you know your uncle, Mister Golding, who has petitioned me to allow you to assist him in his translations of ancient Latin texts into English. 
 (in Latin) Continetne, ut spero, Ovidii Metamorphose? Mihi honori erit, patrue 
 Then cosmography with Doctor Richards. Two to three is geography and history, and four to five fencing. 
 (to William Cecil) And composition? Poetry? 
 This is a Puritan home, your grace. We believe such activities to be the worship of false idols, and therefore a sin before the eyes of God. 
 A sin? But surely there must be room for beauty and art in life, my lord. 
 Not in this household. 
 
 You were losing anyway. 
 (CONT'D) You know I am going to one day succeed my father at the Queen's side. Not you. 
 Really? 
 
 
 
 
 
 Is it any good? 
 How in blazes should I know? 
 You haven't even read it? 
 
 
 I read a line or two-- I promised Henslowe I'd finish "Eastward Ho" by Saturday. 
 And you say he's a nobleman? 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) Powerful?   Rich?? 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) Ohhhh, you have to do it then, don't you? 
 I tell you Will-- I came to London to become a great poet, to, to, be the conscience of our times, the soul of our age! To change the world, not to become someone else's-- 
 (amused) Change the world? With rhyme? 
 Yes, why not? Why can't a man change the world with words? 
 JONSON (CONT'D) (mimicking Oxford) "I can make you the most popular and the richest playwright in all of London." (takes a swig) Ballocks! I can do that myself, thank you very much. 
 You know, it's actually not half bad... 
 Not half--?! You're an actor, what in God's name do you know about writing?! He's an amateur, Will, a complete and utter amateur. Last week gardening, this week playwrighting, next week hawking. (takes another swig) No. I won't do it. It would be an affront against the Muses... 
 (smiles) Well we musn't offend the muses, whatever we do. (thinks, then) How much money did you say he gave you? 
 What, you think my name can be bought, if the number's great enough, do you? 
 No, not at all... I think we should keep your good name quite intact, thank you very much. 
 A 
 (O.S.) King Philip of Spain sees the current Catholic revolt in Ireland as a weakness of ours. A weakness to be exploited.... 
 Ireland? 
 There are rumors of his sending financial aid, and even troops. We must act quickly. (beat) We must replace the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and send additional troops immediately, majesty. 
 Replace?   With whom? 
 I would recommend the Earl of Essex, your majesty. 
 Essex?  To Ireland? (frowns) For how long? 
 As long as the present crisis warrants, majesty. 
 Impossible. He cannot be spared. We feel his counsel is of greater import with each passing day. 
 I only recommend we send your most able subjects where they are most needed, majesty. (beat, a last-ditch effort) Philip of Spain dreams still of taking your kingdom from you. (MORE) 
 But Essex? 
 Essex's martial abilities are, in my opinion, the only antidote to the plague of Philip. (clears his throat) Though, Essex would not, unfortunately, be able to remain in the Privy Council if he is in Ireland... 
 And who would you advise to replace him? 
 Sir Robert Cecil. 
 Your son? 
 He is my own advisor first, my son second, majesty. His counsel has been invaluable to me, and no doubt will be to you as well. 
 Yes, yes, yes. We will send Essex to Ireland and place Robert on my Privy Council. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I saw a play this last weekend, William. It made me think of... days long past. Of memories... long past. Long past. I should like to see more of them... Has Edward been happy, William? With your daughter? 
 (O.S.) Murdered! 
 By your own hand! 
 He was stealing my poems. 
 He was doing my bidding! 
 Yours? 
 Of course. As soon as Robert informed me that you were disobeying my express-- 
 Robert?   Robert told-- 
 Enough! Thou shalt not worship false idols in my household! Your everlasting soul hangs in the balance. Not poems. Your soul! 
 My poems are my soul! 
 You have placed me in a grave position, Edward. (MORE) 
 Sir. For the last three years you have managed to seize much of my inheritance-- 
 Hold your tongue, Edward, before you make a claim you cannot retract! I have been legally reimbursed for your education and living expenses. 
 And now you suggest you be "reimbursed" the rest of my once considerable estates through your daughter's bed? 
 No. This is how I suggest you keep your noble head from the executioner's block. 
 
 ...and in the fear of god, duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained. One was the procreation of children... 
 
 BISHOP (CONT'D) ...to be brought up in the fear and nurture of the Lord and praise of God. Secondly, it was ordained for a remedy against sin. 
 
 BISHOP (CONT'D) Thirdly, for the mutual society, help and comfort, that the one ought to have of the other, both in prosperity and adversity, into the which holiest state these two persons present come now to be joined. 
 "Henry V" by... No one? 
 And why would any of you admit to trying to better me in a historical drama? Comedy, yes, tragedy, perhaps. But never will one of you best me in historicals. 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) Or will we be seeing a most hysterical historical? 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) Hmm? Ben? Waiting to see how it's received before you lay claim?? 
 
 "PROLOGUE" Oh, for a muse of fire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention. A kingdom for a stage, princes to act, and monarchs to behold the swelling scene! Then should warlike Harry, like himself, assume the port of Mars, and at his heels should famine, sword, and fire crouch for his employment. Can this cockpit hold the vasty fields of France? 
 
 "HENRY V" This day is called the feast of Crispian: he that outlives this day, and comes safe home, will stand a tip- toe when this day is named, and rouse him at the name of Crispian. 
 "HENRY V" (CONT'D) He that shall see this day and live t'old age, will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors, and say 'To- morrow is Saint Crispian. 
 
 "HENRY V" (CONT'D) Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars. 
 "HENRY V" (CONT'D) And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.' Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot, but he'll remember with advantages what feats he did that day. This story shall the good man teach his son. 
 "HENRY V" (CONT'D) And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by, from this day to the ending of the world, but we in it shall be remembered; we few, we happy few, we band of brothers; for he to-day that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile, this day shall gentle his condition: and gentlemen in England now a-bed shall think themselves accursed they were not here, and hold their man-hoods cheap whiles any speaks that fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day! 
 
 
 "SALISBURY" My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed. The French are bravely in their battles set and will with all expedience charge on us. 
 "HENRY V" All things are ready, if our minds be so. 
 "WESTMORELAND" Perish the man whose mind is backward now! 
 "HENRY V" You know your places: God be with you all! 
 OXFORD'S BOX 
 William Cecil's convinced the Queen that only Essex can save Ireland from the Revolt. 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) I've pledged to go with him, Edward. We sail in an hour. 
 Henry-- 
 I ask for your blessing, Edward. 
 I can't give it to you. 
 I for one wish to see this anonymous colleague of ours. (stands) Playwright! Playwright!! 
 
 
 If he is to be my king, then it is my sacred duty to be with him in battle. 
 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) I am sorry to have disturbed your entertainment. 
 Henry-- Henry!! 
 
 I, I... It's been... I, I, want to... thank my actors, whose great acting brought... my words... to life due to their most finest acting. Ah... Thank you. 
 (O.S.) An actor?!! 
 An actor for god's sake? 
 My lord, I thought that-- 
 You presumed to think? On my behalf? Whatever made you believe you had that prerogative? 
 My lord, your voice is completely different than mine. My, my, my characters are-- 
 Voice? You have no voice! That's why I chose you! (beat, softer) You at least kept my name from him? 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) And will continue to do so? 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) A romantic tragedy. In iambic pentameter. 
 (amazed) All, my lord? Is that possible? 
 Of course it is! 
 Who was that man?    I've seen him before. 
 ANNE (CONT'D) Edward-- we must discuss our Bridget's dowry. 
 (looking up - confused) Dowry? 
 She cannot go into marriage without a dowry that is becoming to the daughter of the Earl Oxford. 
 I can give her Brooke House and a hundred pounds. 
 A hundred pounds? Father?     Mother! 
 That is all we have to give at the moment. 
 (furious) Edward. Edward! Speak to me! Our family is in financial ruins, and, and you, you play the flute while Rome burns! 
 Nero fiddled whilst Rome burned. 
 For god's sake, who cares Edward? When your own daughter can't even have a suitable dowry? 
 ANNE (CONT'D) My god, you're writing again, aren't you? After you agreed-- after my father expressly forbade it! 
 Anne-- If you could have seen them-- the mob... They, they didn't just sit there like the reptilia of court, faces motionless, fangs momentarily retracted. No! They, they jumped on stage, they fought the French! A butcher-- he actually broke his arm! He was so-- 
 Stop!   Stop it at once!! 
 ANNE (CONT'D) Why!? Why must you write?! Why must you continue to humiliate this family? 
 The voices, Anne... The voices. I, I can't stop them... They, they come when I sleep, when I wake, when I sup, when I, I, I walk down a hall! The sweet longings of a maiden, the, the surging ambitions of a courtier, the foul designs of a murderer, the wretched pleas of his victims.    Only- - only when I put their words-- their voices-- to parchment are they cast loose, freed... Only then is my mind... quieted... at peace. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) I... would go mad if I didn't write down the voices. 
 Art thou possessed? 
 I... don't know. 
 (O.S.) "Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Verona, where we lay our scene" 
 "From ancient grudge break to new mutiny, Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean." (no longer reading) Incredible!! The whole bloody thing in verse?! 
 (nonchalant) It's really not that difficult, if you try. 
 And have you ever tried? 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) (performing for the Blonde) "But soft, what light through yonder window breaks? It is the east, and Juliet is the sun. Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, Who is already sick and pale with grief, That thou her maid art far more fair than she." 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) (to Jonson) I'll have little trouble parting the legs of barmaids after that performance! 
 You can't play Romeo. 
 (to Jonson) Why not? I won't let that oaf Spencer have another go at one of my roles. No-- only Will Shakespeare can pump the life into Romeo's veins. (grins at another passing girl) And his cod piece! (beat, desperate) Ben-- Ben! I'm an actor, every inch of me, down to my very toes... I want- - no, I need, crave-- to act. I can't just idle the day by with-- 
 So bloody well act like a writer! And for God's sake, keep off the stage. Writers don't have time to act. 
 "ROMEO" What lady's that, which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight? 
 "SERVANT" I know not, sir. 
 "ROMEO" O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright! It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear; beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear! 
 
 "ROMEO" (CONT'D) Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night. 
. 
 
 
 My lord of Oxford. 
 Did he? 
 Rash, yet brave. A boy-- and yet a man. Fair on the eyes, fairer to the ear... 
 
 If I had known my absence would cause your grace so much... longing, I would have returned much-- much-- sooner. 
 Your wife must be much pleased by your presence once more at her side... 
 
 
 If she is, it is but a small comfort to me. I am returned only under my father-in-law's insistence. 
 (surprised) Cecil had told me your match was one of love. 
 And so he would wish. (long beat) But how could one ever love the moon, after having first seen the sun? 
 (O.S.) Where is her majesty? 
 My lord. Her majesty went riding with the Earl of Oxford. 
 And which country did you like the most on your travels, my lord? 
 I think Italy, your grace. 
 And why is that? The weather?       The food? 
 No their theater, which they call la Commedia dell'arte. And, of course, the women. 
 The women? 
 They were more... clear with their desires than our English ladies. When they want something, they take it. They do not wait to be taken... 
 I can't decide. Are you Prince Hal...? Or Romeo? No. Benedick, maybe...? No-- (MORE) 
 (smiles) Puck? 
 Yes, Puck! 
 Ah, but Puck would never fight for you in the Netherlands... 
 (surprised, smiles) The Netherlands? 
 Well, why not? It's an open secret on the continent that you support the rebels against Spain-- and that you are commissioning Englishmen to help their cause. Spain's loss is England's gain, is it not? 
 Is this why you bedded me? For a commission? 
 No.   No-- of course not--    I-- 
 Leave me.    Leave at once! 
 Bess-- 
 How dare you! How dare you!! I command you to leave my presence. 
 O Mistress mine, where are you roaming? O stay and hear... your true-love's coming, That can-- (looks up and down her body) --kiss both high and low... 
 (passionately) You will stay in England... And in... my chambers... 
 (O.S.) I could do it if I wanted to... 
 (to Nashe) Do what? 
 (a little drunk) A play in iambic, in iambic pen...in- bic-pentameter. It's not that hard. 
 Think you so? Have you ever tried? 
 Of course not. But I could if I wanted... 
 It wasn't all in verse. 
 Ha!   See!   Even easier! 
 (excited) Henslowe wants "Romeo" to run a fortnight. (unbelievable news) A fortnight! Innkeeper! A round for everybody! Inkeeper!! (no response) Billy!!! 
 A fortnight? 
 The maids love the romantic tragedies. 
 Precisely why I avoid them. 
 Aw, well. No worries. A one-trick pony. He'll never be able to do it again. 
 "TWELFTH NIGHT" 
 "CAESAR" 
 "MACBETH" 
 
 A 
 "POLONIUS" (over-acting) ...Beware of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, bear it that the opposed may beware of thee. Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice, take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.... 
 "GERTRUDE" What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murder me? Help, ho! 
 "POLONIUS" (behind curtain) What ho, help! 
 "HAMLET" How now?   A rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead! 
 "POLONIUS" O, I am slain. 
 "GERTRUDE" O me, what hast thou done? 
 "HAMLET" Nay, I know not. Is it the King? 
 "HAMLET" (CONT'D) Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell! I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune; Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger. Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down, And let me wring your heart; for so I shall, If it be made of penetrable stuff, If damned custom have not brass'd it so That it is proof and bulwark against sense. 
 
 "HAMLET" To be, or not to be: that is the question: whether `tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles, and by opposing end them... 
 "HAMLET' ...To die, to sleep- no more- and by a sleep to say we end the heartache, and the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to... 
 
 
 (looks up) Are you certain of this? (almost confused) William Cecil was murdered? 
 Not literally, of course. He was a character, a fictional character. But the metaphor was clear for anyone to see. And see, they did. 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) Will you shut it down? 
 That is not for me to decide... 
 POLE (CONT'D) Your service to his lordship is once again greatly appreciated. 
 (O.S.) He butchered you! 
 Not only in front of Court! But the entire City as well! We must arrest this Shakespeare and- 
 No, Robert, think. If he is really as popular as you say, we would only anger the mob. No. We must strike at Edward directly. 
 But we cannot maintain our authority if the mob thinks us laughing stocks-- 
 (angry) Our authority comes from Elizabeth and from God! Elizabeth! Elizabeth is the key to all. 
 James knows of the Queen's affection for Essex... and the rumors of his birth. He is justly concerned. (beat) You will reply to him. 
 I will reply to him? 
 I am dying, Robert-- (before Robert can protest) We both know this to be true. And I will not witness the next coronation. 
 Help me to my bed, my son. (Robert Cecil does so) If we are to secure your place at the side of the next king, you must get that king his throne, not I. 
 (confused) Edward? 
 He uses the tools at his disposal, as we use the tools at ours. But ours will win... as they always have. 
 (more confused) I-- I don't understand, father.    What does Edward-- 
 Edward seeks what we seek.   To choose the next King. 
 (O.S.) I am with child... 
 Are you certain? 
 Two cycles have passed, my lord. 
 I wish to marry him... 
 Marry him, your grace? He is already married. 
 I can do what I will. 
 Can you? 
 I love him... 
 Would you risk your throne for him? Would you risk England for him? 
 And Edward? 
 He must never know. 
 What have you done? 
 I am praying. 
 (ignoring him) She won't see me! I've gone to her chambers three times, and she will not receive me. And now she's gone! 
 She's on Progress. 
 Where?   Where did she go? 
 The Queen does not ask for my advice about matters of the heart, Edward. If she had, she hardly would have chosen you for her pleasure. 
 (O.S.) It's difficult to write, isn't it? After watching something like "Hamlet"... 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) I've seen you watch him. Will. During a performance. It eats at you... at your soul... 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) Why do you think Will hasn't been arrested? You or I make the slightest joke about a nobleman of no consequence, and we find ourselves in a cell quicker than a fart spreads in the trade winds. Will-- he murders a caricature of old William Cecil himself, and still whores all the way to Westminster and back. 
 (shrugs) Perhaps they haven't noticed.. 
 I made sure they did... 
 You informed on one of your own?   To the Tower? 
 Watch who you judge, Ben, for as God is my witness, you may well find yourself doing the same before you meet your maker. We do what we have to, to survive, and survive well, in this life. All of us. And Will is definitely not one of us. You know he's illiterate, don't you? 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) No? Oh, he can read well enough-- how else could he learn his lines? But the man never actually learned to form his letters. 
 Why are you here, Kit? 
 (smiles) So who did write it? You?   No.    You'd take credit for it. No... (MORE) 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) It must be someone who wants their anonymity protected. Someone who might even pay to have it protected. 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) A nobleman. 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) But which?    You know, don't you, Ben? 
 You've had too much to drink, Kit. You're beginning to sound like one of your plays. 
 Ben! Tell me. We can go to him together. Guarantee his anonymity... for a price. 
 You reported on me as well, didn't you, Kit? Last year. That's why I was arrested, wasn't it? Because you went to the Tower? 
 (lying) Ben, Ben... I had nothing to do with that. 
 MARLOWE (CONT'D) Ben-- I'll just go to Will! He'll tell me because he has so much more to lose than you. Fame. Fortune. And you'll profit nothing from it. Nothing! 
 
 (pointing) If the Rebels have stripped the northern borders... Then we must march south... and take Cahir Castle... 
 So what would you have me do? Spend the entire spring encamped? I am sent to Ireland to end this infernal rebellion, not idle my days with-- 
 Robert! 
 
 
 Point! 
 (in French) Bien. Faisons du travail... le Coup droit d'autorité? 
 Mais oui, mon seigneur. 
 Bien.    En garde! 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Qu'est ce que vous faites? 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Beaulieu?    Beaulieu?! 
 Signor?    Signor?! 
 FRANCESCO (CONT'D) Signor? Mio dio! Signor! What has happened-- 
 Beaulieu-- he, he tried to kill me... 
 (to a passer-by) What's all that, then? 
 A body... 
 A 
 
 MAN (CONT'D) Must have been a cut-purse. Nowhere's bloody safe anymore, I'll tell you that... 
 Sampson! Sired by the great Arthur himself! No dog's yet been bred that can take him down! 
 I need more money. 
 More--? You already make more than any playwright Bankside. 
 But then here, good friends, I bring you a pack of dogs so fierce, so dangerous, that Medusa herself would shrink in fear! 
 I'm going to build my own theater, Ben, one that fits the scale of my work-- 
 Your work? 
 Not a one has had a morsel of food in a week! Bred by the great John Sinclow! 
 A Fourpence on three dogs! 
 They insist only a gentleman can own the land. 
 A shilling on four! 
 The bribes are outrageous, but I found some one who will make me a coat-of-arms, and change the Stratford lists for me. 
 Impossible. 
 Eight shillings on six dogs!   Eight shillings on six dogs! 
 I'll take that bet!!   Eight shillings on the bear, six dogs! 
 Done! 
 Bad bet, that. 
 (to Shakespeare) You'll have to make do with what you've got. I won't be your beggar. 
 This isn't a request, Ben.   I'll have more money. 
 Or what? You'll slit my throat like you did Kit's? 
 Release the dogs!   Release the dogs! 
 I know he went to see you last night, Will. And I know he was planning to expose you if you didn't agree to his terms. 
 
 (dead serious) You're mad, Ben. Kit was my friend. 
 Be careful, Will. You kill me off too, and you won't have any good plays to act in after this is all done. 
 I'll have my guineas, Ben. One way or another, I'll have my guineas. 
 
 
 So! You are the famous Shakespeare whose labors I have enjoyed so much. I am at your service, sir. 
 My lord-- I- I need more money. 
 (sharp) I beg your pardon? 
 My expenses have, ah, aggrandized... since this all began. 
 "Aggrandized"? 
 And if, if your lordship doesn't agree to an increase in my, ah, fee, I shall be forced to make certain... facts public. 
 Have you any idea to whom you are speaking? 
 I am addressing the writer of Hamlet... of Juliet and her Romeo.   Am I not? 
 Out. Get out! How dare you insult my master in-- 
 Wait! (beat) How much? 
 Four hundred pounds. A year. 
 A year? 
 Pay him. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) (impatient, in Italian) Pagalo! 
 Forgive me for speaking of things above my place or understanding, signor. But... Is this wise? They have already tried to kill you once. 
 Wisdom, Francesco, is a quality I have unfortunately never possessed... 
 Edward... You know she would be furious if she found out about this... 
 BESSIE (CONT'D) She still loves you. 
 No.   She abandoned me. 
 You don't know, do you? 
 BESSIE (CONT'D) The Queen.   She had your child. 
 I cannot be certain, majesty, when the... relationship began. 
 But sometime soon after your return to Court. 
 You're sure? 
 They-- they haven't been very discreet, majesty. I presume he wanted you to know. To... to hurt you. 
 Arrest them.    Arrest them both! 
 Your whore gave birth last week. 
 Banished...? 
 No. You have the freedom of the kingdom. Just not of the Court. (beat) Those are her terms. Here are mine. You will go back to my daughter. You will make some effort to make her happy and you will finally act according to your station in life, and accept the responsibilities of your great title. 
 My lord!     I, too, have a condition. 
 I don't know if the whore has even delivered the-- 
 No.   The other one. 
 The other one? (realizing) Who told you? 
 I will go back to your daughter. I will make you as many grandchildren as she can bare... 
 There is no record of his true birth, no trail that leads to you, or the... mother. His foster parents never knew the truth, and both are now dead... 
 The name? 
 Make even a hint of this to the child, or anyone else, and this agreement is void, and I'll see your head on the block within a fortnight. And the boy's as well. 
 (excited) It's a boy...? 
 Hello... 
 Hello. 
 My lord... 
 They tell me one day you're to be an Earl as well. 
 I shall be the Earl of Southampton. 
 (smiling) Well then, we shall be Earls together, shan't we? 
 
 (O.S.) ... In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return to the earth: for out of it wast thou taken, because thou art dust, and to dust shalt thou return... 
 
 
 We wish to recall Essex from Ireland... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) We feel a terrible void, now that your father is no longer at our side... 
 A wise decision, your majesty. If nothing else, it will give him an opportunity to respond to all these rumors. 
 Rumors? 
 I'm sorry, majesty, I thought you'd heard. 
 Heard what? 
 Essex is in negotiations with Philip of Spain... 
 Peace is at hand. We know this. 
 Majesty-- it is said that Essex has promised Phillip all of Catholic Ireland in return for... 
 In return for what? 
 Spain's support of Essex's claim to the throne of England... 
 Bring him to me, William.   Bring him to me at once! 
 (correcting) Robert, majesty. 
 
 My lord... 
 She can't believe this... 
 Oh, can't she? 
 It's Robert Cecil. He failed to kill you, now he tries to kill your name. 
 We leave with the tide! 
 Well, I've got it! 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) The herald just finished it not an hour ago. (smiles) Well? 
 It's quite... colorful. 
 What in blazes is it? 
 My coat-of-arms! It cost a bloody fortune, but, by god, you can call me gentleman now! 
 I can't quite make out the motto... Non sanz... Non... 
 "Non sanz droict". 
 Not without-- 
 Right!? Not without right? (beat) You went to him, didn't you? You lying knave-- you went to him! 
 (smiles) Ben.   Ben! Let me buy you a-- 
 What? You've already killed off one competitor. Now you want another dead as well? 
 I don't know what you mean.   Ben, we should really-- 
 I swore to him I wouldn't tell you his name. Swore it! Do you have any idea what he might do to me? Do you? (to Nashe) (MORE) 
 JONSON (CONT'D) He's not even a writer you know. He can't even-- 
 Ben-- you've had too much to drink. 
 Unhand me! 
 JONSON (CONT'D) Here! (looks around) A quill! A quill! 
 JONSON (CONT'D) (re: the parchment) Go on, Will. Write something for us. Now. Go on! Amaze us with your verse. Your wit! No? Try astounding us with the letter "E". Or an "I"-- it's just a straight line! 
 You haven't got any ink. 
 (to Southampton) Wait for me. 
 Majesty, I, I... 
 Get out!   Out!!! 
 (O.S.) 
 (CONT'D) The insolence! 
 Who in God's name does he think he is? Abandoning his post without my leave! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Coming into our presence in such a manner, neither announced nor invited, half his army in my courtyard. He's gone mad... mad! 
 No. Unfortunately for us, your majesty, he is quite sane. He simply believes he is your royal equal. 
 I am Edward, Earl of Oxford. 
 Edward!   Edward! Thank god you're here. 
 SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D) Elizabeth has revoked all of his royal licenses! She believes every lie Cecil tells about him. (seeing Oxford's wound) Edward? What happened to your leg? 
 (shrugs) Nothing. 
 She won't accept my letters. I cannot get to her. Cecil plans to arrest me any day. I know it. (beat and more determined) But that won't be as easy as he thinks. 
 Fight him in London, and you only validate every rumor and lie Cecil has ever told about you. 
 Then what do you suggest I do? Let myself be arrested so I can be tried and executed for crimes I did not commit? 
 No. I will go to Elizabeth, myself, alone-- 
 How? Cecil won't let her see a letter without reading it first. 
 I won't send her a letter.   I will send her a book. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) She will call for me. And while I am with her, you will come-- not with an army, not with swords, but with her loyal subjects. The cobblers, the tinkers, the bricklayers of London. (MORE) 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) All, all calling for Robert Cecil's banishment from Court. Words, Robert, words, will prevail with her, not swords. 
 And the mob?    How will I-- 
 Leave that to me. 
 (to the whore) Hold your tongue, whore, and get out! 
 FRANCESCO (CONT'D) (to the whore) Out, woman! 
 Oi.   `Oo's going to pay me then? 
 You shall begin rehearsals immediately. But it is not to be performed until I tell you. And you may only have a day's notice. 
 That will be expensive-- keeping all the actors ready. Having the props made but not-- 
 Oh, and congratulations. You've had an epic poem published today. 
 (confused) Published? You mean like in a book? 
 (V.O.) `The boar!' quoth she; whereat a sudden pale, Like lawn being spread upon the blushing rose... Usurps her cheek; she trembles at his tale, (MORE) 
 (V.O.) And on his neck her yoking arms she throws: 
 (V.O.) She sinketh down, still hanging by his neck, He on her belly falls, she on her back. (not quoting) Oh, I like this... 
 
 
 (turns) You find me disgusting, don't you? Repugnant. Wrinkled? 
 You, you are the sun, majesty.   The glory of-- 
 Liar! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Is it so hard to believe that once I was young? That I was... beautiful? Your father knew me as such... (beat) You have read the book? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) He writes to me. To remind me of that beauty. That love. How I... took him. How I... adored him... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (throaty, sexually) Graze on my lips; and if those hills be dry, Stray lower, where the pleasant fountains lie... 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I've been foolish. Proud. Yes. Too proud. Gloriana... The Virgin Queen... A statue. Bloodless. (beat) "Thou wast begot; to beget is thy duty. By law of nature thou art bound to breed, That thine may live when thou thyself art dead"... (beat) Your father told you of the child? 
 (hint of a smile) Which one, your majesty? 
 His.   Mine.   He still lives? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) He was well placed? A nobleman? 
 (hesitates) Yes... your majesty. 
 Who? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I am your Queen! Now who is my son!!? 
 His grace, the Earl of... Southampton, your majesty. 
 Majesty... You are not having doubts about James of Scotland succeeding you, are you? 
 James?! He is the son of Mary! She plotted and schemed to steal the throne from under me! No son of hers will rule while a yet Tudor lives! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) I will decide what is best for my kingdom! Not you! Not you!! (calmer) I have bid Edward to come to me on my return to London on Monday next. It is decided. 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) (sotto) And so, in spite of death, I shall survive, In that, my likeness still is left alive. 
 "GLOUCESTER" (in character) But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks, nor made to court an amorous looking-glass... 
 "GLOUCESTER" (CONT'D) (in character) I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion, deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time into this breathing world... 
 Good part, that... 
 "GLOUCESTER" ...and that so lamely and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as I halt by them. (out of character) Is this wise? 
 It's only the one performance.   Go on! 
 "GLOUCESTER" I need a drink... 
 (to Burbage) Burbage. Wonderful theater. Wonderful! The best Bankside! But only one performance? Is it that bad? 
 Hardly, it's Will's new play. Richard the Third. We've been hired to perform it free to the public. 
 Free? 
 Aye. Some anonymous nobleman paid for everything. God knows Will never would.   Been rehearsing all week, just found out this morning, we go up next Monday. 
 (grins) My best so far. I guarantee more than one performance. Though I'll not pay for the tickets myself. (winks) No need to. 
 Sorry, Ben... 
 BURBAGE (CONT'D) Will... He's part owner... I'm sorry Ben, but I had to agree no Jonson plays at the Globe... Ever. 
 (to a woman) You doin' tomorrow? 
 You askin? 
 Managed to get two tickets to Shakespeare's latest. Cost me a fortune. 
 Ballocks, did it! They're giving them away free. 
 Best villain in the history of theater, Richard the Third. No doubt. 
 Come on.    Better than Mephistopheles? 
 No doubt! Your Marlowe-- god rest his soul-- is fine for your everyday scalawag, and your Jonson won't even try the hard drama. No, this is Shakespeare, for god's sake! The man knows drama. I tell you, not even the Greeks compare! (toasting) To Shakespeare! And villainy! 
 Fancy a tumble? Only sixpence! 
 I haven't got all day, man. 
 I... There is a-- there is a play to be performed... on Monday. 
 There's many plays to be performed next Monday, isn't there? 
 Yes, my lord, but this one is to be performed one performance, and one performance only. On Monday. All Bankside is talking of it. (beat) The History of King Richard the Third. By William Shakespeare. 
 JONSON (CONT'D) He kills his brother the king, and half the royal family to get the throne for himself-- 
 I know who Richard the Third was. 
 Yes. Of course you do. But in William Shakespeare's version, he is played as a hunch-back. 
 We have to turn `em away by the hundreds! Look! Never seen anything quite like it! 
 So! I heard the Earl of Essex paid for this whole performance! Man's never even been to the theater, and still he's heard of Will-- 
 Essex!? Impossible. My cousin's one of his men-at-arms. Hasn't been paid in weeks. They're all just sitting there, waiting. 
 Waiting?     Waiting for what? 
 Wants to have an audience with the Queen. As if Cecil would ever let Essex near her now. 
 By the mass, Cecil in favor, Essex out! Who can keep up with it all!? (takes a swig) (MORE) 114 pg. 115 
 NASHE (CONT'D) Zounds, I tire of politics, politics, politics. 
 
 (to Nashe) Tired of politics are you? Seems you picked the wrong day to come to the theater, then... 
 
 "GLOUCESTER" Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of York. Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front.... 
 
 
 "GLOUCESTER" ...and now instead of mounting barded steeds to fright the souls of fearful adversaries, he capers nimbly in a lady's chamber to the lascivious pleasing of a lute. But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks, nor made to court an amorous looking- glass... 
 "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.) I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion, deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time into this breathing world,.... 
 "GLOUCESTER" ...and that so lamely and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as I halt by them. 
 "GLOUCESTER" And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover, I am determined to prove a villain and hate the idle pleasures of these days... 
 Edward knows what he is doing...      Does he not? 
 He promised us a mob. They'll be here. 
 "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.) Plots have I laid! 
 "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.) Inductions dangerous, by drunken prophecies, libels and dreams, to set my brother Clarence and the king in deadly hate the one against the other. 
 A pox on Cecil! 
 Why is Oxford's man with the Groundlings? 
 
 "GLOUCESTER" Hath she forgot already that brave prince, Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since, Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury? A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman- Fram'd in the prodigality of nature,     Young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal- 
 Down with Cecil! 
 FRANCESCO (CONT'D) Up with Essex! To Essex House!     To Essex House!! 
 This is what Essex is waiting for-- (realizing) Oxford is bringing him a mob. 
 Why would Oxford-- 
 I don't know, I don't know! But, the Tower-- Cecil, he already knows. He knows! (looks at Francesco) I-- I have to warn them! 
 Up with Essex! Essex! Death to Cecil! 
 
 We must close the play. Now!! 
 Close the...? Are you off your head? 
 
 "GLOUCESTER" (repeating) Fram'd... in the prodigality of nature, Young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal- 
 To Essex House! To Essex House! Death to Cecil! Traitor! 
 To Essex!   And then to the Queen! (joins in the chanting) Ess-ex! Ess-ex! 
 
 
 Fire! 
 
 They should be here by now... 
 We go as we are! Now!! 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) To the Queen! 
 
 Signor Jonson! We are betrayed!    Run! Run! 
 
 To the Queen! To the Queen! 
 Take your aim! 
 
 It's a trap! 
 Spread out! 
 Fire!! 
 Re-load! 
 Majesty! You must away! Essex is in armed revolt! He's come to usurp you! 
 (confused) Essex? I-- Edward is-- 
 You must flee! Quickly! Majesty! He means to kill you and take your throne for himself! 
 (O.S.) She won't forgive him this, Edward. 
 He wanted his grandson to be an Earl. 
 No, Edward.   He wanted his grandson to be a king. 
 You lie... 
 Do I? (beat) Why do you think he worked so hard to become your guardian after your father died? He had it all planned years in advance. He would teach you everything he knew about statecraft, marry his daughter, and, after Elizabeth's death, proclaim you heir. His own grandchild to follow you on the throne. But he couldn't possibly predict what kind of failure you would become. How you would fail in politics, ignore your estates to the point of bankruptcy, all to write... (sneers) Poetry. (beat) Or that you would commit incest. (MORE) 125 pg. 126 
 Elizabeth would never have-- 
 What?  Slept with her son? (beat) I don't think she ever knew, to tell you the truth. Though you never know with the Tudors. They all have had such strange tastes in bed-fellows. (beat) You could have been a king, Edward. And your son after you. Except for the fact that... you were you. 
 I want a fair trial for Southampton... Evidence, witnesses, no false confessions. It must be above reproach. Though with a guilty verdict of course. Oh, and Pole-- (turns) If there is any mention of that play-- (looks back at Oxford) (MORE) 126 pg. 127 
 Sentence has been passed. 
 ANNE (CONT'D) They are to be be-headed. (with venom) Both of them. Essex tomorrow, Southampton in a week. (beat) Your son is going to be killed, Edward. By his own mother. Put that in one of your plays! 
 
 Strike true. 
 ESSEX (CONT'D) God save the Queen! 
 FROM A WINDOW 
 
 Leave us.    All of you. 
 Majesty, I-- 
 Leave us! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) You look old... 
 I thank your majesty for seeing me. 
 You cannot have him. 
 He is our son. 
 Who did commit High Treason! 
 They only wished for a place in government equal to their station. Equal to their birth. 
 You caused this! Your play, your words, caused my people to mob against me! Do you think I wasn't aware of your plot with this man Shakespeare, that I wouldn't recognize your voice? It should be your head on the block next week, not Southampton's! 
 Then take my head. In our son's stead. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Neither they nor I ever conspired against you. Cecil alone was our aim. He has corrupted your-- 
 Cecil?  He has kept me my throne! (beat) Mary, Queen of Scots... Philip, King of Spain... Four French Louis's... Eight Popes-- they all wanted my head. My throne. All of them! (beat) Yet here I remain... Because of the Cecils. 
 We would have protected you-- 
 You would have protected me? You? My "loyal" Earls? (snarls) You think Essex and Southampton were the first to conspire against me, to try to take my throne? No! (beat) Only the Cecils could I trust! Commoners! They could never claim my throne. Never! Their wealth, their power, their survival, all depended on me. Me and no other! 
 Let our child live... 
 (furious) All Englishmen are my children! 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) Does he know? 
 ELIZABETH (CONT'D) And if I give him to you? 
 He will never learn of it from me. 
 He must never know... Never. (beat) Take him. 
 But only after my death! Only then! When all is complete. After James is crowned king, his crown safe, only then can you claim your son... our son. (beat) This Island will be whole. (MORE) 130 pg. 131 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) One Island, one kingdom, one King. (with disgust) Scotsman though he be. (beat) That, that will be my final gift to my people. (beat) And I shall remain pure... Un-taken! 
 Treason... that is all that has come from you... your son... Your plays... None will be claimed by you. None. 
 A 
 
 (O.S.) God save the King! 
 (O.S.) No, no, no, no. 
 The line won't get a laugh that way. You must accent the word sirrah-- 
 (O.S.) Will!   Will Shakespeare! 
 JONSON (CONT'D) So!    Off to the palace are you? 
 Ben! 
 A command performance for our new king! Even in bloody Scotland they've heard of bloody Will Shakespeare, have they? Fraud. Charlatan. Counterfeiter of wit! Murderer! 
 Ben, please... 
 SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D) You came to me, Ben. You came to me! 
 (O.C.) Master Jonson? 
 (to servant) What is this man doing in my house? 
 ANNE (CONT'D) (to Jonson) You will leave at once. My husband is quite ill-- 
 It was your husband who sent for me, madam. 
 And I am dismissing you-- 
 Are you Jonson? 
 Excuse me, your grace. 
 Thank you, doctor. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Come over here, Jonson... 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Did you know, Jonson, that my family can trace its peerage farther back than any family in the kingdom?   We fought at Crecy. At Bosworth Field. At Agincourt. (beat) I inherited my Earldom as one of the wealthiest men ever to breathe English air... and at last breath, I shall be one of the poorest. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Never a voice in government. Never a sword raised in glorious battle. No immortal deeds for my heirs to know me by. (beat) Words, merely words, are to be my legacy... (beat) You alone watch my plays and know them as mine. When I hear the applause, the cheering, of the audience, all those hands clapping, they are celebrating... another man. But in that cacophony of sounds, I strained to hear the sound of two hands only. Yours. (beat) But heard them, I never did. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) Death takes away all pretense and demands honesty from its target. You, you have never told me... never told me what you thought of my work... 
 (almost a whisper) I find... your words... the most wondrous ever heard on our stage.    On any stage... Ever. 
 JONSON (CONT'D) (sotto) You are the soul of the age... 
 Promise me... promise me, Jonson, that you will keep our secret safe. That you won't expose Shakespeare... 
 My lord? 
 I have seen it in your face... He vexes you. How could he not? But he is not your burden. He is mine. 
 OXFORD (CONT'D) All my writings. The plays, the sonnets... Keep them safe. Keep them from my family. From the Cecil's. Wait a few years, and then, publish them. 
 I am not worthy of this charge, my lord. I... I betrayed you... I told them of your-- 
 I have made it my life to know the character of men, Jonson. I know you. You may have betrayed me, but you will never betray my words... 
 
 Get out! You, your friends, your blasphemous theaters, have brought nothing but ruin and dishonor to this family. 
 Ruin? Dishonor? Madam. You, your family, me, even Elizabeth herself shall be remembered solely because we had the honor to live whilst your husband put ink to paper. 
 (V.O.) To the Earl of Southampton. The love I dedicate to your lordship is without end; whereof this pamphlet, without beginning, is but a superfluous moiety. 
 (V.O.) What I have done is yours; what I have to do is yours; being part in all I have, devoted, yours. 
 (V.O.) Were my worth greater, my duty would show greater; meantime, as it is, it is bound to your lordship, to whom I wish long life... still lengthened with all happiness. 
 I can make all this go away, Jonson... To be but a dream. Like one of your plays... Or, I can bring you so much pain-- pain that were you given a thousand years, and a thousand quills, you could never justly describe... 
 CECIL (CONT'D) I know you have them. All his manuscripts. My sister saw you leave Oxford Stone with them under your arm. 
 They were destroyed...   burned...   by your own men... 
 He's lying... 
 My lord? Why would I lie? Is there a man alive who has reason to hate him more than I? 
 JONSON (CONT'D) He was something I could never be. An undeniable perfection... that plagued my soul... And to him I was... nothing. A messenger. Nothing more. 
 Let him go!   He tells the truth. 
 CECIL (CONT'D) And Jonson-- better him, won't you? Wipe his memory for all time. For you. And for me. 
 (sotto) I am afraid that this is not possible, my lord. 
 
 (O.S.) O-- for a muse of fire... that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention... 
 
 PROLOGUE (CONT'D) A kingdom for a stage, princes to act, and monarchs to behold the swelling scene! 
 Let us, ciphers to this great accompt, on your imaginary forces work. 
 I We had seen some of this Shakespeare's plays in Edinburgh, Sir Robert. I must tell you, we enjoyed them immensely, and look forward to seeing many more, now that we are in London... I presume you are as avid a theater man as myself? 
 Of course, your majesty... 
 Robert Cecil remained the most powerful man in the Court of King James, though he could not prevent the public theaters from becoming ever more popular. William Shakespeare, however, spent the remaining years of his life not in the playhouses of London, but in the small town of his birth, Stratford upon Avon, as a businessman and grain merchant. (beat) (MORE) 
 PROLOGUE (CONT'D) 
