 
 (V.O.) 'Flintstones, Meet the Flintstones, They're a modern Stone age fam-i-ly --' 
 (V.O.) 'From the Town of Bedrock They're a page right Out of his-tor-y -- ' 5   DRIVE-IN MOVIE THEATRE - DUSK                              5 
 (under his breath) You can forget about a tip for Christmas... 
 (sotto) Oh, my aching sinuses... 
 (sotto) I hate this job... There's not even a health plan... 
 (deeper "on-air" voice) Good morning, Bedrock. This is station B-R-O-K with the morning weather and news... 18   IN THE BED                                                    18 
 (O.S.) It will be fair and mild through the weekend, continuing for the next eight hundred years, followed by cooling breezes and a protracted ice age... Those walking fingers have reached the top edge of the covers... now they pull them down revealing the owner's face... the face of Fred, his eyes at half-mast, his face covered in fashionable "Bedrock Vice" stubble. FRED (with genuine charm) Wil-ma. Wil-ma? How about a great big good morning kiss for your Freddy-weddy? And he pulls the covers down to reveal -- DINO, who is immediately "YI-YI-YI-YI-ING," hopping all over the bed and showering Fred with sloppy kisses. FRED Dino!   Dino, cut it out -- ! 
 (O.S.) In the news, Bedrock civic and business leaders met yesterday to discuss the growing kibble crisis. (MORE) 
 (O.S.) In other news, Bedrock police report that the Xenosaurus has struck again! Yes, the fiercesome intruder was sighted in the Bedrock Hills for the third time this month. Outlying shops and residencies report extensive looting and property destruction... 
 Fred, stop playing with Dino and sit down. Your breakfast's getting cold. 
 So is everybody else in Bedrock. That kibble crisis is getting worse every day. She puts two giant slices of bread into a toaster. Two claw-like devices hold the toast, pulling it out of sight. 
 I'm afraid Dino's going to have to manage on leftovers from Pebbles and me. 
 I'll let you know when I see some. 
 (O.S.) (finishing up) ... Scientists from B.C. University report that the footprints of the Xenosaurus match no known animal. 
 Mommy, is the bad Ze-ze-zenosaurus gonna get me and eat me up? 
 Of course not, baby. 
 (giggling, calming) I'm still a little scared... FRED Pebbles, don't worry. These stories are very exaggerated. Like, you know, the boogyman? There's no such thing as a huge, inhuman reptile that attacks without warning -- WHAM! Dino reappears, bounding through the window and knocking Fred onto the floor. Once again Dino is happily licking and loving and cuddling his callously unresponsive owner. Fred struggles to avoid the slurping tongue, pulls himself up to the window sill, looks out. FRED -- Oh, look, everybody, the mailman is here -- 
 Well, it beats working in a seafood restaurant... 
 Lucky it wasn't the Sunday paper. 
 (wiping their mouths) Come on, kids. Time for nursery school. 
 'Bye-bye, Daddy. 
. 
 Nice morning, huh, Fred? FRED What's nice about it? 
 Heh, hey. That Arnold's got a real arm on him, don't he? 
 Ah, well, that appliance store and me, we kinda had a little adjustment -- 
 Fred, don't start on me again.    I donno, I'm just not a nine to five guy. I got dreams, Fred. Ideas -- 
 I invented fire. 
 I told you that, Fred. But the coal conglomerate ripped me off. The case is still in court, but meanwhile I got lotsa other ideas -- FRED Yeah, but did any one of them ever put bread on the table? How long are you and Betty gonna live on those penny-ante royalties you get? 
 Maybe, Fred.   But first... 
 Let me try some of that smoke on your car. 
 (as he works) -- See, the first step, we make a mold of the old car hood, smooth out the dent in the clay -- He tosses the original car hood aside with a crash. Then, moving rapidly, he starts heaving a variety of ingredients into the reverse imprint of the car hood. 
 -- Add some lava granules... some woca leaves... juice from two coo-coo berries... 
 Anything for a pal, Fred -- a lump of coal... bamboo sawdust... eucalyptus sap... a touch of the La Brea tarbrush -- and -- voila. Barney dips a finger in this mess, "tastes" it; satisfied, he yanks on a hanging rope and a giant rock weight slams down on the whole mess, making Fred jump out of his skin. 
 (in mid-speech, driving) ... Oh, it's not that I'm complaining, Wilma. I mean, Barney's sweet, but... well, he's just not cut out to punch a clock. And he's such a dreamer, you think he ever once picked up a hammer and chisel and tried to balance a checkbook? They pull up in front of a pleasant-looking simple little nursery school. MRS. GRANITE, a pleasant-looking 65, sees them from the schoolyard, waves while Wilma and Betty un- load the kids. 
 No, Barney just keeps looking for that coo-coo berry pie in the sky, and I don't want to pop his balloon by talking about the price of mastodon ribs. 
 MRS. GRANITE (approaching) Mrs. Rubble, Mrs. Flintstone, I wanted to thank you personally. 
 You're welcome, Mrs. Granite. But we wipe their mouths every day. 
 MRS. GRANITE No, no, I mean for all your wonderful support the past few years. It's parents like you that make me think twice about retiring. (CONTINUED) 
 MRS. GRANITE On the other hand... 
 We're really going to miss you, too, Mrs. Granite. 
 MRS. GRANITE Have you found another school for the children? 
 We're still shopping around. 
 Fortunately, we're both -- Wilma and Betty straighten... salute. 
 WILMA & BETTY (they've done this routine before) -- Professional shoppers! 
 Not bad, eh? After it cures for an hour or so, it's solid as a rock. 
 Did I ever? 
 You're a big man anywhere, Fred -- FRED I'm serious, pal. Me and Mr. Slate are just like this -- He takes his hand off the wheel to hold up two fingers... ends up swerving instead. 
 Hey.   Lava Lane. FRED Remember the old days, Barn? We used to race our go-carts here to impress the girls. 
 (wistful) Yeah, those were the days... we usta dream about coming back here some day with a real car and goin' for the goldrock...! 
 Fred... I thought you said it was time to retire those old dreams. FRED Hey. Since when do I have to be consistent? 
 (spotting the cops) Oh-oh! Fred, slow down -- ! 
 Well, Flintstone, looks like today's the day. FRED Sergeant Feldspar, I... I wasn't speeding... honest... 
 (O.S.) Forget it, Flintstone. This time I got you dead to rights -- Fred opens the box. A scary-looking winged reptile sticks out its head, smacks its hungry lips. 
 Gravel. Get me the radar reading and I'll show you how we deal with scofflaws. 
 Whoa!   Wings, do your stuff -- ! 
 Flintstone!   Flintstone, come back here -- ! CUT TO: 
 (with a sigh) Four years in accounting school for this... 37   INT. BUTCHER SHOP - DAY                                        37 
 Morris, what on earth is going on? You giving away Bronto filets? 
 Ah, my two loveliest customers. It's this darn kibble crisis, Mrs. R... people are buying everything I got to feed their dinos... 
 MRS. SLATE Young man, if you're through flirting, I'd like some service. 38   NEW ANGLE                                                      38 
 Of course, Mrs. Slate.   Just take a number. Wilma senses the tension, quickly steps forward to break it with a smile. 
 Ah, hello, Mrs. Slate. 
 (prompting) We met at the quarry picnic? 
 MRS. SLATE Oh, of course. Mrs. Flintstein. 
 Ladies, the meat's not getting any fresher. Mrs. R, what'll it be? 
 Oh, I'd like some ground mammoth patties and uh... some dodo drumsticks. 
 Gino?   We got any dodo bird? 
 There's one left -- and it's the last one! 
 Good. (handing him the note) Give it to Mrs. Rubble along with this. 
 (turning to Betty) How about you, Mrs. F? 
 I just need a few things for Fred. 
 'Fred...'? (calling into the back) David! Herman! Get Rob and BoBo and tell 'em to bring the big dolly! 
 You got it. Now then... Mrs. Slate? (pointing at the limo outside the shop) You're in a no parking zone there. (CONTINUED) 
 MRS. SLATE Well, if I get some service, I'll be out of it, won't I? Mrs. Slate steps to the counter. Meanwhile, the staff begin using a refrigerator dolly to bring out giant ribs, steaks and sausages which they pile up in front of Wilma. 
 MRS. SLATE I want a nice fresh, juicy chickensaurus, Morris. And not one you've had laying around on the shelf. I mean fresh. 
 Mrs. Slate, we're kind of busy now -- 
 MRS. SLATE I don't care if you're busy. What I care about is my adorable little grand nephew. He's staying with me for the summer and I intend to make his favorite dish... Southern fried chickensaurus! Now I want a fresh chickensaurus and I want it now! 
 Boys, you heard her... she said fresh. 39   THE STAFF                                                       39 
 MRS. SLATE (oblivious of the trouble) Morris, while you're at it, I'd like it plucked -- (CONTINUED) 
 MRS. SLATE My car -- ! 
 (New York accent) Hi, Mr. Flintstone. 
 Anything for you, Mr. Flintstone. 
 Here you go. (smiling) Thanks again for the football tickets. My boyfriend and I both liked them. 
 Okay. But do you think next time we could go to the same game? FRED (confidently) No problem. Fred smiles at her, hands the forms to Barney. Fres steps towards the quarry, admires the activity, hands on hips, master of all he surveys. He waves to more friends. FRED Well, Barn, what did I tell you? When you're in with Flintstone, you're in like Flint. 
 Gee, Fred. I knew you were a big shot. I just didn't know how big. Fred beams at that, and then follows Barney's gaze to the read-out on the truck scale. Fred is standing on it and it's pushing 250. With a scowl, Fred grabs Barney's sleeve and they go into the quarry. As they move, the CAMERA PANS and CRANES UP TOWARDS the window of the Slate Construction Office. 
 Uncle, if you'll look at this unit cost projection... it intersects here with -- 
 -- how'd you like my fist to intersect with your nose? I've told you a hundred times, don't call me uncle in the office! Now, I didn't arrange your scholarship to Harvrock University so you could waste my time! So stop beating around the bushasaurus and get to the bottom slime! 
 You'll be bankrupt in six months. Slate does a Danny Thomas spit take all over the model. 47   EXT. QUARRY - MOVING SHOT                                 47 Fred and Barney cross the busy lot, sidestepping workers and animals. Fred does a lot of backslapping, waving. Barney's filling out the forms on the move. Behind them, we see the wide access ramp which spirals around the quarry's sides. 
 (to himself) Social Security number... dependents... 'how learned of job' ... newspaper ad, carrier pigeon... (writing) ... Personal reference... Hearing a loud SMASH, Fred looks up and sees -- 
 Way ta go, Pilty baby. Five bucks says you can't hit one on the fly. 
 (calling up) Yer on, Pyrite -- Pyrite tosses a walnut, which bounces on the ledge.    The wrecking BALL SMASHES into the stone wall. 51   BELOW                                                        51 
 Yeah?   Sez who? 
 Yeah? Well, A.N.W. one-oh-one gives us workers a snack break. So... (a nasty grin) ... I'm breakin' some snacks. 
 (leaping down) You've been asking for this, Flintstone... I'm gonna kick your fat butt -- FRED Fat butt? Hold me back, Barney -- (sotto, very sincere) -- Barney, hold me back -- Quickly the men form a circle around Piltdown and Fred. Barney looks up and sees -- 55   THE CRANE ON THE DINO'S BACK                                55 
 Hey, maybe you guys oughta fix that first. 
 Why should we? (CONTINUED) 
 It looks dangerous. Besides, you can kick Fred's fat butt anytime. FRED Yeah.  That's right. (realizing, a glare at Barney) I mean -- this ain't over, Piltdown. (turning, shouting) Come on, guys. Let's clean up the mess. With much grumbling, ropes and grappling hooks are gathered and the crew hops to it... 
 Bankrupt?   Are you crazy? 
 It's all here in hack and slice. When you committed to this housing development the price of dino kibble was a few clams per ton. Since then, it's gone up a hundredfold. (indicating the model) You can't build a project like this without the heavy equipment dinos, and we can't afford to feed those dinos. 
 I'm two months behind schedule, my option's running out on the land and Donald Trumprock is just waiting to jump in and steal the whole deal ... meanwhile that damn union's on my back, hell, they'll probably want an eighty hour week or something... (frustrated) There's got to be an answer... 
 What's that? 
 (worried) Sounds like a worker's comp claim if I ever heard one... 
 Uncle, Uncle, speak to me -- But it's only a statue of a golfer from one of Slate's trophies. 
 (sitting up) I'm over here, you moron -- and don't call me 'Uncle'! 
 Hey, nice going, Fred.   You even got the spare -- FRED Barney, shut up -- (turning) Mr. Slate -- Mr. Slate -- are you all right? Slate staggers to his feet, seething with fury. He finally yanks the car hood free. It bounces and VIBRATES in his hands like a hand saw. 
 (eying the men) For five years Slate Construction has had the finest safety record in Bedrock. (pacing, angry) Our workers are trained in first aid, our equipment is first rate and our dinos are worm free. And then something like this happens ... I want to know how! A cacophony of voices starts to answer. 
 Shut up! (in the sudden silence) I want one person to answer me: (waving the car hood) Who's responsible for this? 71   PILTDOWN                                                        71 
 (quickly) It was Flintstone, Mr. Slate! 
 That's right, Mr. Slate, it was Flintstone! 
 That's a lie, Mr. Slate! 
 Who are you? 
 (pointing to his forms) B. Rubble. White male personal reference -- 
 (pushing Barney aside) Flintstone, I have just one thing to say to you -- Fred cringes.       Piltdown and Pyrite smirk. 
 (pumping his hand) Congratulations! 
 FRED                                PILTDOWN Huh?                               What? 
 This stuff you had on your car is the most incredible building material I've seen in thirty years in the construction business! (testing it) It's strong -- (twirling it) -- Light -- (bending it) -- Resilient -- It rebounds, "SPROINGING" him on the chin.        He recovers, shakes it off. 
 Where on earth did you get it? 
 Well, actually, Fred, it was the other way ar-- Fred hisses between his teeth, repeats the "Slate and me are just like this" gesture he made earlier, points at Slate. (CONTINUED) 
 (reluctant) Sure, Fred, right, right. Slate nods, distracted, his eyes and hands running over the smooth lines of the car hood. 
 The rest of you men go back to work. I want to talk to Flintstone and the personal reference alone. Come on, move, move... They go out, Piltdown looking furious. 
 (a man in love) Light  as a Pterodactyl feather... why, a  child could handle this... Lava,  we could cut construction costs  in half... in quarters... in uh...  whatchacallit -- 
 (patiently) Eighths -- 
 Eighths, right. Flintstone, what do you call this stuff? FRED Well, Mr. Slate, I call it -- (hesitating, sotto) -- Barney, what do I call it? 
 (sotto) Fibrerock, Fred... FRED -- I call it Fibrerock Fred -- ! (realizing) I mean, ah, 'Fibrerock'! 
 (rolling it over his tongue) 'Fibrerock'? 'Fibrerock'? (playing with it) 'Fib-bre-rock' -- 
 I love it! 
 SLATE'S STAFF (instantly reversing themselves) Love it... great... has a nice ring... says it all, you know? (Etc...) Slate takes the piece of material, leans it on the table so it catches the light. Despite himself, Lava comes over, examines the car hood... can't help but marvel at it as well. Meanwhile, Slate puts his arms around Fred and Barney. 
 (to Lava) You see this, Lava? All those courses of yours at Harvrock University, and who saves my bacon? Two simple-minded run-of-the-mill nobodies. 
 Gee, thanks, Mr. Slate. Lava glowers. Slate pulls Fred and Barney close with genuine excitement. 
 Boys, this is a small step for Slate Construction... a giant step for all mankind. He points to the translucent material. CAMERA TIGHTENS ON it. We see Fred, Barney and Slate's reflections in it. 
 (dramatically) The Stone Age is over!    Let the Fibre Age begin! As HEROIC MUSIC STINGS IN, we... 
." (CONTINUED) 
 Here we are, Mrs. Slate.       Sorry you had to ride in the back. 
 MRS. SLATE (getting out) Not at all. I'm used to being driven around. And she's sashaying up the path.       Betty and Wilma burn, then follow her. 
 'La hachette de ma tante est sur le roche de mon oncle -- ' 
 (coming over, gushing) Madame Mrs. Slate, bonjour! Welcome to L'ecole des Enfants Prehistorique Haute Superior! 
 MRS. SLATE Thank you, Marie. (showing a rock receipt) I ordered the hors d'oeuvres for the junior talent show. They were out of Ceolanth caviar so I got Mastodon brie instead. Oh, ah, these are my, uh, friends, Wilma Flintstein -- 
 Flintstone -- 
 MRS. SLATE -- oh, it used to be Flintstein -- ? And this is ah, Becky... Betty! 
 Enchante. 
 I'm sure. (CONTINUED) 
 Likewise. 
 (waving a hand) Well, Madame Slate, as you can see, we remain ze creme de la creme in the croissant of life known as Bedrock. Now, your leetle gran' nephew will be wiz us for two weeks, no? (opening a drawer) Here is ze application for him. An' mais oui, he weel participate in zee annual talent show, naturalment? 
 An' your friends perhaps would like zum school applications for zere enfants? 
 MRS. SLATE (amused) Them? Oh, Marie, really, you don't understand -- 
 (suddenly) That's right, you don't understand. My husband's business manager usually handles this sort of thing, but I don't mind. And to Wilma's astonishment, Betty takes one of the parchments. 
 I know Bam-Bam -- (correcting herself) -- pardonez-moi, 'Bem-Bem' will love attending your school and performing in the talent show. Thank you oh so much. 
 Let me have one of those, too.   For ma petite Pebbles. 
 Of course. Any friend of Madame Slate is a friend of mine. As Mrs. Slate reacts, we -- 
 Gee, Fred, I don't believe it. Eight hours ago I didn't have a job and now look -- I got 1/2 of one percent of the after-taxes after-expenses net breakage profits on Fibrerock! FRED Just be thankful I was there to go over the fine print. (full of himself) It's like I told you this morning -- There's something noble about a man digging in with his hands and doing an honest day's work. Once you file those dreams under 'old business' and put your nose to the plow, well, the world is your oyster. And was I right? 
 No, Fred, you weren't. I didn't nose any grindstones and you didn't shoulder a wheel. We just hung out together and everything that happened was a total accident. 
 (seeing this) It's not like the boys to be so late. 
 Unless they were forced to go bowling again. Remember that time a burglar pointed a gun at them and said, 'go bowling right now'? 
 Betty, sometimes you're a little too gullible -- 
 Don't tell me. I still can't believe what I did today... 
 No kidding. (indicating the forms) Do you have any idea of what the enrollment fee is? And get this... it's non-refundable -- 
 I know, I know! I just couldn't stand that woman's attitude! But we had to find a new school anyway, and there we were... the next thing I knew, I was in over my head... but why did you jump in, too? 
 Oh, she was getting to me too with all that mastodon snort about her little nephew... and... 
 And? 
 And... if a friend can't help you do something stupid, who can? 
 What do we tell the boys? 
 What's wrong with the truth? (CONTINUED) 
 We put ourselves in debt so the kids can attend school with a family we can't stand? 
 (pause) Maybe we could rephrase it... Suddenly the door bursts open.     Fred and Barney run in with candy and flowers. 
 Flowers? 
 Rock candy?   That's nice, but... why? 
 (sotto) Not anymore you don't... 
 (presenting flowers) Betty, these are for you. For sticking beside me during the tough times, and well... for making a little guy feel like he was ten feet tall. 
 Aw, Barney... I... I don't deserve these. I did something really stupid today. 
 Hey. Fred does something stupid every day and I still love him. 
 (observing this) Have you been drinking? In reply, Fred whips a bottle of champagne into view. 
 Fred, there's no easy way to say this so -- 
 Boys... did you see... the dollar signs there at the bottom? 
 The non-refundable dollar signs? 
 Plenty more where that came from. 
 Betty... these... these look... real -- (CONTINUED) 
 Yeah. And nothing's ever gonna change that... right, Fred? 
 (V.O.) Attention, fellow Water Buffaloes... 78   INT. WATER BUFFALO LODGE - NIGHT                              78 
 Brothers, your attention! 
 ("ritual" type tone) The herd is now called to the prairie. (holding fingers above ears) Antlers... up! 
 Ack-ack-a-dack! 
 (banging gavel) This meeting of the Water Buffaloes is now in session. Sergeant-at-Arms, have we got any old business? Barney stands, acknowledges his friends and Lodge brothers. 
 Indeed we do, Brother Herdmaster. Tonight we are to hear speeches from prospective candidates for Lodge offices, such as good old Fred and some other guys. 79   PILTDOWN                                                    79 Seated across the room with Pyrite and other cronies, he immediately leaps to his feet, paws the ground, and gives an eerie moan even stranger than the Herdmaster's earlier call to order. 
 Brother Piltdown: You have given the Cry of the Gelded Buffalo at the Poisoned Water Hole. Do you wish to file an objection? 
 You bet I do. How come Flintstone is 'good old Fred' and me and the other candidates are just 'some other guys'? 
 Yeah, how come? (CONTINUED) 
 (rising) My apologies, Brother Piltdown. Allow me to rephrase. Tonight we will hear speeches from a whole bunch of good old guys... (pause) ... plus the one and only Fred Flintstone! Cheers go up, which drown out Piltdown's renewed cry of the poisoned water hole. Fred moves towards the podium as the noise dies down. 81   NEW ANGLE                                                   81 
 (hissing) -- crucible -- 
 Congratulations, Fred. 
 Thanks, Fred, but here at the lodge drinks are free. 
 'Here's to the Water Buffalo and their next Herdmaster... Fred'! 
 Fred, what was all that stuff in your speech about the workplace? I thought the only decision you made there was how many lunches to eat -- Laughter. Fred accepts it good-naturedly, reaches into his pocket. FRED Well, Harry, it just so happens that old Fred is moving up in the world... Boys, you're looking at Mr. Slate's new partner. 
 You and Slate? Who are you kidding, Flintstone? The only partner you got is hanging over your belt. Pyrite laughs, a bit too much. 
 -- If I don't, you will -- FRED (a tight smile) Gentlemen, my card -- He passes them out, and the others take them, curious -- 
 (AD LIB, impressed) Hey, way ta go, Fred... Whoa, gonna switch from a hard hat to a top hat, Freddy boy...? 
 (examining the card) Ah, it's probably a phony... 
 Gee, Fred, how come I didn't get any business cards? FRED Barney, it's all part of the plan. (to the others) Yes, boys, you see, I went up to my pal, Mister Slate and single- handedly made him an offer he couldn't refuse -- (Barney reacts to the "single-handedly" --) 
 Fred, we gotta talk turkey -- FRED That's right -- just like that -- 
 Fred -- ! 
 Fred... what's this single-handed stuff? I distinctly remember at least four hands and two of them were mine. 
 The truth? FRED This is big business, Barney. We can't start telling the truth, it'd create the wrong impression. Think about all the really big deals in history -- back to the beginning of recorded time. Barney knits his brow in thought for maybe three seconds. 
 Okay. FRED What do they all have in common? (as Barney is stumped) I'll tell you. A front man. A guy who's out in the public eye running the point, fighting the crowds... and meanwhile... back in the corner is the silent partner. 
 I never knew that. 
 FRED (CONT'D) But while you're busy being silent -- (conspiratorially) -- all along you're the brains behind the operation and I'm the brains in front of the operation. I'm out here running the guts of the operation but you got a cut. It looks like my mind, but you're really behind. 
 I get it. I got the brains, but you just pretend to have them. 
 Barney, wait a minute... 97   CLOSER                                                         97 He stops, turns. Betty comes over and we see he's wear- ing a sports jacket and an abysmally-tied tie. Betty fixes the knot. 
 There. That looks more like a captain of industry. 
 Thanks, Betty. What would I do without you? 
 Hmm. Probably run off to the tropics with one of those executive secretaries. 
 Come on, Betty, it's only my first day. You have to have seniority to run off... She giggles, kisses him. 
 Fred! Wait a minute! There's something wrong with your lunch -- 
 Fit for a king... my king. 
 (kissing him) Good luck. (pause) Watch out for those... you know... hostile takeovers. 
 Yes, yes. Looking good, Mister Flintstone. I see you've recovered from that polo accident. FRED Yas, yas. The water was too deep and my horse drowned. They crack up at their own wit, drive off. 
 Ivan, look, okay, so I bought too much on margin... everyone said glaciers were here to stay, I mean, who knew? Just leverage my shares in Atlantis dry goods and -- what? When did that happen? Piltdown enters, knocks on the open door. 
 Mister Lava, the armored car is here. 
 Armored car...? 
 Yeah. Must be a fortune in coo-coo berries on that baby. You know, for that Fibrerock stuff of Flintstone and Rubble's. You gotta sign here for it. 
 (into phone) I... I'll get back to you. 
 Piltdown, this Fibrerock program is going to create a lot of changes around the plant. I want to make one more. You've been a wonderful thug and goon for me. Now, I'd like to expand your duties. I want you to become a provocateur. 
 Gee, Mister Lava, I donno.   I kinda like girls myself. 
 (patiently) What I mean, is, I'm going to use you to double-cross your Lodge and Union brothers, and make their lives a living hell. 
 Oh, okay. 
 Good. You and your little pal will report directly to me and take orders only from me. (slapping him on the back) Now get out of here and start screwing your former friends and associates. 
 Coo-coo berries... CUT TO: 
 (when he's gone) Gee, Fred, driving with you is better than an 'E' ticket at Magerock Mountain. 
 Flintstone!   Rubble! 
 Oh, hi, Mister Lava. 
 Please, call me Jerry. Uncle -- I mean, Mister Slate told me to take you to your offices. If you'll follow me...? 
 The Fibrerock  assembly line. Unc -- Mister  Slate's had a crew working on it  all weekend. We're going to roll  out the first sheets of Fibrerock  by mid-week. 
 But, Fred, it's right where the employee basketball court used ta be -- 
 I guess so.   You already did. Lava leads them to a wood-sided trailer. 
 Well, gentlemen, here you are. As soon as you're settled, come over to the assembly line. We'll go over the Fibrerock formula before the first run. He goes off.    Fred and Barney go -- 104   INSIDE TRAILER                                                 104 There're two tiny little desks at the far end, separated by a flimsy divider. The single window here looks out over the quarry scrap heap. (As we watch, somebody dumps a load of debris.) Threadbare furniture on a worn rug sits under a portrait of "Our Founder" (Slate). 105   BACK TO SCENE                                                  105 Fred and Barney look at all this in turn.     Pause.    Then they whirl, give each other high-fives. 
 All-right! 
 Ready... aim... fibre! Barney pulls a rope which opens the trough.     "Fibrefoam" pours into the mold. 107   THE CLAY MOLD                                                 107 gets "winched" unpwards by monkeys, and then an alliga- torsaurus whaps it with its tail. 108   BELOW                                                         108 Presto! A Fibrerock copy     of the stone sofa drops neatly out of the mold, bounces    lightly on the conveyor belt below! It sparkles with     the tell-tale celadon-green shimmer of Fibrerock. As     it chugs along, the process repeats, and soon a score    of identical sofas is in view. 
 Men, this is a proud day for Slate Construction. You have seen the first pieces of Fibrerock roll off the assembly line and into history... a history you are all part of... thanks to your very own fellow worker, Fred Flintstone! 113   WORKERS - FAVORING FRED AND BARNEY                          113 
 No longer will man and beast bend under the backbreaking load of stone and rock and timber... because Fibrerock is so light that even a child can handle it. (pause) That's why on Monday we're going to hire two dozen children from Bedrock Technical Junior High. They'll be replacing the 36 heavy equipment operators, 15 shaft diggers and 22 laborers we're laying off today. Your pink slips will be in your final pay envelopes along with a ticket to the grand opening of Slate City. It's non-transferable, so hang on to it. Thank you, and have a nice weekend. 
 #1 Laid off --? 
 #2 Pink slip --? 
 #3 Thanks to Fred Flintstone? (CONTINUED) 
 #4 Flintstone! What kinda shop steward are you? All eyes swivel and bore into Fred, who is as shocked as anyone. 
 Fred. You gotta do something about this! 
 (proudly) That's my Fred... 116   INT. SLATE'S OFFICE - DAY                                    116 
 Whew.   And it's still pre-season. He whaps the ball to Slate again. 
 (furious) Flintstone! (CONTINUED) 
 We do, eh?   About what? 
 Of course I can, Fred. I can lay them off like -- (snapping fingers) -- that, or like -- (a different style snap) -- that, or like -- 
 -- that. FRED (bravura slipping) Oh, you can, huh? 
 Of course he can, Flintstone. It's his quarry. 
 (still calm, warm) That's right. Why -- (chuckling) I could lock the front door and go fishing if I wanted! 
 (winking) Why, I could even fire Lava here if I wanted. Lava quivers with mock surprise.     Everyone really laughs, now. 
 Or... (wiping away a tear) I could fire you, Fred. FRED (guffawing) Me! Ah, ha, that's rich, Mr. Slate, that's -- Suddenly Fred stops laughing. 
 Flintstone, Lava, here, recommended that you be in charge of public relations to get Fibrerock off to a good start. I'm a member of that public, Flintstone, and I have to say... this isn't a good start. I'm getting a bad feeling about Fibrerock. A bad feeling about... you. You want that feeling to go away, don't you? FRED Uh... well, gee, I... uh, yeah. 
 Good. Then turn around and walk out of here and we'll forget all about this. 
 Well?   What'd he say...? Ol' Freddie  boy told him a thing or two...  Probably got us a raise... Right,  Fred...? Fred...? (CONTINUED) 
 (worried) Fred? Fred staggers over to his locker, opens it... gets in, and closes the door. We hear a MUFFLED SOB. 120   A NEW ANGLE                                                  120 
 But, Mommy, I wanna go roller skating... 
 BAM-BAM (mouth full) Yeagh... 'hend thugh guys wher ghoing -- (swallow, munch) -- to play rockball at Paleolithic Park -- Betty wipes Bam-Bam's mouth, smiles sweetly. 
 Well, you're both going to change your plans. Your new school is going to have a talent show... and you're going to have some talent. 
 You don't have to win... honorable mention or most Kongenial Kids is perfectly acceptable. 
 (aside) As long as we beat the pants offa Mrs. Slate's nephew... (CONTINUED) 
 Young lady, this is not about beating pants, this is about becoming a well rounded child. Now, what kind of act will you do? 
 BAM-BAM How about a disappearing act? He takes a tentative step away but Betty grabs him. 
 We're waiting. Pebbles and Bam-Bam sigh, huddle.       We hear snatches of discussion... 
 But then we'd need a hammer             BAM-BAM and chisel... oh, what about    That dumb thing?   You that thing with Dino?           think so...? Pebbles turns, the decision made. 
 Okay. We're gonna sing a song with Dino. Instantly, on cue, Dino leaps out of nowhere, holding a straw hat and a cane. Wilma and Betty look at each other, skeptical. Bam-Bam reaches into his shirt and takes out a whistle. He blows it -- 
 A one-and-a-two and-a -- 122   WIDER                                                           122 
 (to Wilma, impressed) Well? Think they're ready for the talent show? 
 I think they're ready for Rock Vegas. As they laugh and hug the kids and Dino, we -- CUT TO: 124   EXT. LODGE HALL - THAT NIGHT                                    124 
 (V.O.) Fellow Water Buffalo. In a few moments we will cast our votes for the lodge officers. 
 The election committee will make the preparations. 
 They're mad at you, Fred... it's understandable, I mean, they all got laid off today -- Fred crosses to the other guys, puts on a big smile. FRED Guys, guys, come on now -- what's a quarry fulla layoffs got to do with a lodge fulla Buffaloes? 
 Is that a riddle? Give me a second -- 
 (stepping forward) I'll tell ya what! Mosta the guys in this lodge work for Mr. Slate -- 
 -- You mean used to work for him -- until somebody opened their big mouth -- FRED Fellas, come on. We're all big boys here -- He gestures vaguely towards the outside world, then back to the little band of brothers here. 
 (pointing at Fred) Candidate and double-crossing back stabber? (turning) Herdmaster! I move we commence the meeting... and the election! 
 I second the motion! 
 All in favor, say -- FRED Wait, wait... Your Antlerness, please, one second -- ! Fred grabs Barney by the shoulder, spins him around, pushes him forward like a refrigerator on a dolly, stands him up center stage. FRED Barney, you gotta tell the other guys what really happened. Tell 'em the story behind Fibrerock. The true story. The room quiets.    Barney clears his throat.     Fred waits, hopeful. 
 Well, there's not much to tell. (trying to remember Fred's phraseology) True, I got a cut... but Fred's got a gut. 
 Oh, yeah, I remember! I got the mind, but Fred's got the behind. Right, Fred? 
 Thank you, Brother Rubble. The Buffaloes will now have their secret vote. (a command) Fit... furs! 
 Paw... ground! Everyone does a bull-like stomp and scrape. 
 All for Piltdown, bellow now! The room ECHOES with MOOSE-LIKE SNORTS. 
 All for Flintstone, bellow now! 
 Order furs! The fezzes come up. 
 The snorts have it! Brother Piltdown, it is my privilege to install you as the new Exalted Herdmaster Erect Antler and Big Buck of our Lodge. If you'll come forward, I will present you with the tokens of office. Cheers and applause as Piltdown goes to the podium. 
 I voted for you, Fred. FRED Big deal, after you screwed everything up in the first place...! Barney reacts, really hurt. He moves away on the bench. Fred's so agitated he doesn't even realize it. 
 Thank you, Brother Chairman. Fellow Buffaloes, I'm a man of few words. It's no secret that most of our lodge members are also members of Amalgamated Neolithic 101... which means that most of us aren't gonna be able to make our cave payments next month. So my agenda for tonight... ends right now. There's a time to be a Buffalo... there's a time ta be a brown nosin' double-crossin' creep... All heads turn and swivel to look at Fred... swivel back. 
 ... and there's a time to stand up and be a man! So let's go down there and make the Slate shop into slate scrap... then we'll see how he gets along without the heavy equipment operators of Neolithic 101! Meeting adjourned! 
 Fred! Fred! The Buffalo are heading for big trouble -- ! FRED No kidding. They rejected the best candidate -- 
 No, no, not that! Piltdown's got the guys all worked up and they're heading down to the quarry! They're gonna wreck the assembly line! 
 No, Fred, if they do that they'll be breakin' the law! Our brother Buffalo could go to jail! FRED Oh, yeah, yeah, that, too... come on, Barn, we gotta stop 'em! CUT TO: 133   EXT. SLATE QUARRY - NIGHT                                     133 Silent, empty. CAMERA PANS FROM the still yard TO the gate. Down the road, we see Piltdown leading the angry mob. Quickly, they go to the gate, climb up and over it! 
 Okay! Let's start with Slate's golf trophies and work our way up to the assembly line! AD LIB angry cheers, and the mob storms into the plant, knocking aside equipment and supplies. 
 I know. Makes you wish things were back the way they were... before we was big executives. FRED Well, I wouldn't go that far... Suddenly they're interrupted by the sound of a SIREN. Fred looks back and sees -- 
 Flintstone!   Pull over! 
 Sarge!   Look out -- ! 139   NEW ANGLE                                                      139 
 I'm gonna sue you for everything you got -- 
 (loudly) Now we'll show 'em who's boss! 
 They can't push us around! Piltdown and Pyrite smash a few items to get everybody juiced up, and then... when no one is looking... ... they slip out the back! 142   REAR OF QUARRY - NIGHT                                         142 Fred pulls into the lot, slams his feet down to stop -- we hear SKIDDING -- they fishtail all over, slam right through a storage area for crates and barrels which collapse all around them. 
 Come on Fred.    Time to earn those big bucks. 
 Darn that Flintstone and Rubble... they're gonna screw everything up... 
 Not if we give 'em a nice long vacation... in the hospital. Saying this, he grips tightly on a wrench. Then some rampaging workers rush by. Piltdown gives them an encour- aging cheer, and then he and Pyrite lead them up some stairs to the assembly line catwalk. There, Pyrite begins SMASHING some LIGHT FIXTURES with a club, while Piltdown uses brute strength to snap big support beams which he flings below. 145   CLOSE - PYRITE                                              145 
 Stee-rike one! Heh-hey.    Ready for a curve ball? 
 Give me your best shot. Pyrite swings. Barney ducks and Pyrite SMASHES a WINDOW pane. Barney dodges again and the same thing happens. Getting cocky, Barney does it one more time... 
. 
 Reject, huh? Whaddya say we reject your head? He raises the club... when an alligator swings down and grabs him by the seat of his pants! Pyrite drops the club, howls -- 159   WIDER                                                        159 The alligator crane swings him away and over a big bin marked REJECTS -- and drops him. Howling, Pyrite falls into a big bin of broken and defective Fibrerock goods. 
 All right!   You're all under arr -- 
 (sitting up) Whattya know. Even got the spare again... 
 Barney, I don't understand... what came over you boys? 
 'Night, Barney. (to Fred) So long, fatso. 
 #2 See ya, Barn. (pause) Flintstone, you're dead meat. 
 #2 'Night, pal.    'Night, slimeball. 
 Fred, is there something you want to tell me about the lodge meeting? 
 A simple little heist -- I gave you everything but the keys and you blew it -- 
 Hey, we got the union guys to break in and create a distraction, didn't we? Who knew Flintstone and Rubble would show up, too? 
 The day after Slate City opens there's going to be an audit. If the stuff isn't gone by then we'll all be doing time until the Bronze Age. 
 Don't worry, Mister Lava... we're on top of it. They both turn and start down an alley... jamming together as they do. Lava sighs... then jumps as Barney comes up behind him and taps him on the shoulder. 
 Excuse me, Mister Lava -- ? I think you oughta know... something could be wrong with the Fibrerock mix. 
 (thrown) How do you know that? (recovering) I mean... ah, why do you say that? 
 It tastes different. 
 Tastes... different? 
 Yup. See, ever since I started with Fibrerock -- I mean, since me and Fred started with it, I always take a little taste of the Fibre foam. And tonight's batch, well... I didn't get much of it, but it seems a little off. (smacking his lips) Can't fool the old taste buds, heh-heh. I think there might be an ingredient missing. So tomorrow, I'll run a couple of tests and stuff -- 
 Rubble, Rubble! We're fighting a deadline to finish Slate City... and we're not pulling the plug on production to satisfy your tastebuds! If you ask me, you and your tastebuds are overworked ... overwrought... how long have you been with us, anyway? 
 Nine days, Mister Lava. 
 Jumping Jurrasic, no wonder you're so run down. 
 I'm authorizing a nice vacation for you, Rubble. Starting tomorrow. You can catch some rays, maybe invent something... hey, how about Fibrerock, the sequel, part II -- ? 
 But -- 
 No, don't try and thank me. 
 ... As you can see, the Fibrerock is so light we're using it for construction, for furnishings... for everything. You can't stack a two-bedroom cave this high... but the sky's the limit with Fibrerock! 
 'Sky's the limit'... 'sky's the limit'... why, these two buildings, they... they practically scrape the sky! We should call them... Slate scrapers! 
 That's brilliant, Unc... Mister Slate. In fact, maybe you can help me with the centerpiece of the complex... (indicating the convention center) ... I wanna call 'em the FibreSphere and the '____' something Needle... but I just can't... 
 (modestly) How about, 'Slate Needle'? 
 'Slate Need...' (astonished) ... How do you keep coming up with these? It's uncanny. 
 (shrugging) It's a gift... 
 (casually) Oh, that reminds me, sign these, will you... just a few overruns ... minor cost problems... that's it... thank you... 
 (heading for the door) ... Oh, Mister Slate, we're going to hold the Bedrock Junior Talent Show in the uh, 'Slate Needle.' Good for public relations -- Lava breaks off.    He's just looked out the window and seen -- 
 Can we help you... sir? 
 (fake crotchety voice) Ah, yup, yup, young feller... jest show me the way to the personnel office... I'm lookin' fer a job as a custodian... 
 Our pleasure. Then they grab Barney with such force that the THERMOS drops and SHATTERS, drag him O.S. -- 171   SLATE QUARRY - MAIN GATE - DAY                                  171 
 (chuckling) Ya can start by cleaning the street with your pants! Still laughing, Piltdown and Pyrite cross over to Lava, who has come out of the office building. 
 That takes care of the half-pint. (pause) Now to deal with the half-wit. CUT TO: 172   INT.'S OFFICE - DAY                                        172 Lava walks Fred from the door into the color-coordinated high-style room. 
 (pointedly) -- Oh? Or check up on us? Emotionally, Lava turns, indicates a picture of Slate on the wall. 
 Flintstone, that... that's a slap in the face of our founder... our employer... our uncle. (turning back, another tone) Unless, of course, you agree with Rubble... that Mister Slate isn't capable of running this operation ... that I'm not capable of running it? 
 Call me Jerry. Sit down, please... Fred complies. Lava winces as his designer FURNITURE CREAKS under Fred's weight, but he only says -- 
 (offering one) ... Cigar? FRED Why, yeah, sure, Jerry. 
 Fred, let me get to the bottom slime. Some men -- you and me, for instance -- we're cut out for the big time, the big bucks... (eyeing Fred's girth) ... the big everything. Lava smiles, prepares the tips on two cigars.      He puts each one in turn in a gizmo on his desk. 
 (aside) When they say smoking is bad for your health, they're not kidding... 
 And others?   Wellll... 
 ... Now, I know your pal Barney had a small part in the preliminary research and development of Fibrerock... FRED Well, actually, I wouldn't say small part... I'd say... 
 Yes? FRED ... Kind of a medium-sized... well, almost medium-sized... well, really a semi-partial assistant counsulting type, of -- 
 (giving Fred a playful punch) You're too kind, Flintstone, that's what I like about you. But you're a big guy with a big decision to make. Are you gonna keep covering for Barney, keep pulling his acornsauruses out of the fire... or are you going to concentrate on your own important duties? FRED Well, gee, that's tough one -- (pause) -- Uh, what are my important duties? 
 Publicity, Flintstone, publicity! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 LAVA (CONT'D) And that's why I've got a little surprise for you... for the man who made Fibrerock a household word, I want you to meet the man who's going to make you a household word... 
 'Ello,  Fred. I've 'eard a lot h'about  you from Mister Lava. H'at's  why we're going to put you on our  program. FRED M-me?   On -- on television? 
 (patting his back, sotto) Right, Fred. As long as you forget all this nonsense about Barney. FRED (still in a dazed thrill) Barney who? 
 Hmm. Lovely little guest 'ouse, Mister Flintstone. So simple, so ordinary, so unexceptional... why, h'it's almost quaint. Let's say we start with the camera 'ere, except... 
 Well, just look at that yard over there... barbecues and trikes, not exactly the right image... FRED (pointing) Maybe you could move those plants to block them out...? 
 Good idea. Rodney, get 'hoppin' with those greens. The aide nods, gathers some workers. They start moving the potted plants. Puzzled, Wilma comes over. 
 Fred, this was supposed to be a 'typical evening' at the Flintstones, and you invited fifty people I don't even know. Now what's going on? Where are they taking my ficus-sauruses? FRED It's the Rubble yard, Wilma.   It's just not the right image... He starts away, suddenly notices his own barbecue and trikes... quickly, without missing a stride, he tosses a tarp over them, slides a potted plant over for good measure. 179   BARNEY AND BETTY'S HOUSE - SAME TIME                          179 
 I don't know why you want to go to this thing... after the way Fred's been treating you lately -- 
 Fred's in a high-powered executive job, Betty. There's a lot of pressure on him. 
 Yeah... and it's all around his belt. If it wasn't for poor Wilma I wouldn't give him the Geological Time -- 
 Trust me, Betty. After the Fibrerock debut, he'll be the same old Fred. Both react to the sound of HAMMERING and SAWING. Curious, they go out the sliding bedroom door into the yard and see -- 180   THEIR POV - THE FENCE                                          180 The television crew has just finished nailing boards up over the top of the fence. Now the big potted plants are dropped into place. With each hammer stroke or thud a little more of the late afternoon sun is shut off until Barney and Betty are in shadow. Finally a canvas tarp is tossed as gracefully as pizza dough, sails into the Rubble yard and covers their bird bath. One last stray end lands on Barney's head. 
 (slowly getting up) I've heard of a flash in the pan, but this is ridiculous... 
 (O.S.) And now... the man who brings you the romance and excitement you crave... from the casinos of Monte Carlrock to the glamour of Hollyrock, here's your guide to the Rockstyles of the Rich and Famous, Rockin' Leach! Leach takes his cue from the director -- 
 
 (INTO CAMERA) Good evening. Tonight we come to you live from the ah... charming pied a terre of the man of the 'our, Fred Flintstone -- Leach pauses, hearing the sound of someone CHIPPING AWAY at a stone tablet... he looks up at -- 184   HIS POV - FRED                                               184 He has just carved "FREDERICK" into a stone cue card and points to it. 185   BACK TO SCENE                                                185 
 'Ere we are at the 'ome of Bedrock's man o' the 'our, Frederick Flint-- More CHIPPING.    Leach looks up and sees: 
 'Ere we are at the fabulous 'ome of Bedrock's man o' the 'our, Frederick von Flintstone -- 
 Thank heaven. There isn't one person I know here. 
 You mean beside Fred? 
 I mean including Fred. They look over at -- 
 Frederick, of course, is the man behind Fibrerock -- the invention that some predict will revolutionize life in the future. Frederick, 'ow does it feel to know that you 'ave personally brought the Stone Age as we know it to a long-deserved end? FRED (very affected accent) Well, Rockin', you're right, I have affected destiny for all mankind, and it's a sobering thought. However, if I may add a personal note at this time, I myself cannot personally take all the credit for Fibrerock... 
 (sotto, to them) See?   What'd I tell ya? 
 Wow! Is this ever keen! Dad, you promise I can cut in all the lines? 
 Of course, Poindexter, of course. They head for the mastodon    and pully-powered elevator. Standing there are Piltdown    and Pyrite, both in security guard uniforms. (Piltdown     is carrying a vaguely-familiar satchel). Lava gives them     a big look. They nod. As the elevator rises, his two    cronies duck into a stairwell marked "NO ADMITTANCE." 
 (unconvincingly) Hello, Frank... 
 (coming over) Fred, can I talk to you -- ? Fred? Fred? (concerned) We have a serious problem with Betty and Barney. FRED (alarmed) You mean you can see their house -- ? 
 (exasperated) I mean you're treating them horribly! What's come over you, Fred? Does a little money mean so much to you that you just turn your back on the things that really count? FRED Wilma, I'm shocked. I wouldn't do that. Okay, I admit it: I'm trying to make an impression here, I wanna look good, I wanna be a success... 
 Arrrgh -- ! 
 Fabulous! I've 'ad enough crab meat and crabgrass to last me a year. All right, boys, that's a wrap! 197   FRED                                                           197 In the middle of a tight little group which is pigging out. Fred seems oblivious to the fact that they're oblivious to him. 
 LEACH'S AIDE What's happening isn't happening here. The action's over at Slate City. Oh, thanks for the booze, Ed -- 
 Fred... I... I'm sorry it's not working out... Fred turns, puts on a big smile. FRED Whaddya mean, not working out? They're goin' party hopping, that's all. That's what ya do in society, Wilma... you cruise around. They'll go over to Slate's shindig for a while, then they'll come back here. 
 Fred... 
 Fred, I want to be here with you -- (CONTINUED) 
 Come on, Pebbles. We're going to another party. 
 Will there be real food there? 
 We'll find out together. She takes the girl's hand and goes to the door, where the last of Leach's crew is just going out. Suddenly Betty catches up to her, Bam-Bam in tow. 
 Wilma, wait.   I'm going with you. 
 Why? 
 If friends can't do something stupid, who can? Wilma smiles, touched. 
 Besides... (lowering her voice) ... Maybe if we leave the boys alone...? 
 (moving closer) Hiya, Fred. (noticing his ruined tuxedo) Boy, the rental place is gonna be mad... (eyeing the mess) ... You feeling better, pal? 
 Creep? 
 (helpful tone) Fool? 
 Slimeball? Louse? Jackass? (snapping fingers) Stuck-up blimpasaurus? FRED (wincing, but taking it) Barney... can... can you ever forgive me for being such a jerk? 
 (stepping closer) Sure, Fred. (smiling) I've had lots of practice. FRED (touched) Aw, Barn... And he grabs Barney in a big bear hug. Tears in both their eyes, they slap each other on the back, two prehistoric sensitive guys. CUT TO: 
 PARROT (RECORDING) (V.O.) Here, we see a typical family of the future, free of the cares and worries of today... yes, the great kibble crisis is a thing of the past when you're living the good life... the Fibrelife! 208   NEXT EXHIBIT                                               208 
 Here, gathered from the four corners of the globe, are the secret ingredients of Fibrerock... some common, some rare... all making life easier for you and yours! 209   THIRD EXHIBIT                                              209 
 But does Fibrerock belong only in the kitchen, the garage, the workplace? No, no, no, my darlings! 
 Because the clothes of the Stone Age are as extinct as stones themselves! Yes, thanks to the wonder of Fibrerockfibre, the world of high fashion will be totally transformed... by Fibre furs... Fibre frocks... Fibre foundations and Fibreshoes... it's to die for! 
 (V.O.) 'It's a Fibre World you know, It's a Fibre World you know, It's a Fibre World you know -- ' CUT TO: 212   INT. BARNEY'S WORKSHOP - NIGHT                               212 Fred and Barney are surrounded by books and cartons and memorabilia. They have their arms around each other and are singing. 
 FRED & BARNEY 'Now it's time to do or die, grab that rock and kick it high, let's fight, fight, fight for Bedrock High!' 
 Yeah.   Too bad we never made the team. FRED So what? We made the team spirit. That's just as important... whatever happened to those cheerleader costumes? 
 You know Betty. She never throws anything away. He hauls out an old footlocker, opens it.    There they are. FRED (rummaging in it) Boy.    Talk about memories. Fred tosses the cheerleader sweater to Barney, who grins, pulls it on. Fred also starts to get into his old "uniform," but has to suck his gut in mightily. Finally, he can zip it up, stern to stem. FRED Back then, we thought a pop quiz was a big problem. We didn't know how good we had it. No problems, no worries... 
 Speaking of problems and worries, shouldn't we get on over to Slate's party? Fred has finally "clinked" the monster head down into place. Now, when he talks, the monster's mouth moves in sync. 
 Yeah?   When did you notice that? FRED About an hour ago. 
 Boy, there's no fooling you, Fred. Suddenly, with a GROWING CREAKING, CRACKING and TINKLING, a scale model of Slate City in the corner begins to fall apart. 
 I... I don't know... the Fibrerock it's... it's decomposing... but this shouldn't happen... FRED Your old models are just fine... 
 It should be. There's enough coo-coo berry resin in there to petrify a brontosaurus -- Suddenly Barney gets it. He looks from the older models to the now decomposing little Fibresphere with growing awareness. 
 (snapping his fingers) -- The coo-coo berries! Fred, that's it! 
 Remember I said the Fibrefoam tasted funny? It was the coo-coo sap that was missing! 
 Why? Because coo-coo berries are as valuable as goldrock! And we've had tons of 'em delivered to the plant since we started... somebody musta got greedy -- 
 (alarmed) Fred, that sap acts as a fixative -- it's the glue that holds the whole formula together -- ! (CONTINUED) 
 (finishing it) ... Is gonna happen for real in the real Slate City! FRED Oh no... Barney! Wilma and Betty -- and the kids -- they're all there -- With a final WHIMPER, the little FIBRESPHERE CAVES IN and then the nearby SLATE NEEDLE CRUMBLES, model story by model story. Finally the "DISK" on top of the needle is all that's left, wobbling around like a spun dinner plate. It finally falls... EXPLODES. FRED (worried) -- B-barney... what do we do? 
 Coo-coo berry sap, Fred! It's our only chance -- their only chance! Barney gives it a quick test squirt. Fred nods, and they rush out of the room. CAMERA PUSHES IN ON the ruins of the model "Slate City"... CUT TO: 
 You're certainly looking lovely this evening, Mrs. Flintstone. Life with a junior executive must agree with you. (CONTINUED) 
 Uh... thank you... I think. 
 (looking into her eyes) Yes. I think so, too. (smiling) Imagine how good you'd look with a senior executive. 
 Oh?   Is Fred getting promoted? Lava laughs, sure she's kidding... then not so sure. The ventriloquist finishes to scattered applause. The kid bows, gets up... splashes across puddles of water on the stage area. The Headmistress of L'ecole Superior et al steps up. Behind her, the picture window displays the expanse of Slate City: The twin Slatescrapers framing endless rows of little tract houses stretching to the distant volcanic ridge. 
 (as applause dies) Sank you, ladies and gentlemen. An' sank you, Monsieur Slate for zis lovely setting. Zoot alors, zis will ze mos' fantas'tic recital in Bedrock 'istoree. Now, I would like to sank out mos' generous benefactress, Madame Slate for her fine support o'vair zee years -- She gestures into the audience, where Mrs. Slate stands, waves a gloved hand like the Queen Mother. 
 -- An' now, what better introduction could we 'ave for Mrs. Slate's vairy own gran' nephew... Poindexter Lava! She steps aside. Curtain rises on little Poindexter. He is carrying a leather-and-bone accordion. He begins to play: 
 (singing loudly) 'Dino of Spain, I adore you Right from the moment I saw you -- ' 
 We just tell Mister Slate that all 500 acres of his development are going to crumble into dust any minute. (holds up the flit gun) Then we zap the stairs and corridors with some of this coo-coo sap. I just hope we have enough to get everybody out -- whoops! 
 Hang on, hang on -- 
 (mouth full, bitching) Speed traps again! Face it, Gravel. I'm in a rut... and meanwhile, the guys who went through the academy with me, they're all big shots now: Sam Slate... Dirty Harock... Magma, P.I. And you know why? 'Cause they got the breaks, that's why! 
 S-sarge, d-did you see that? Some sorta creature was attacking that little guy -- ! 
 There's a lesson there, Gravel... never pick up hitchhikers. Besides -- (realizing) -- Did you say 'creature'? 
 FELDSPAR & GRAVEL The xenosaurus! 
 This is a xenosaurus alert. Repeat, a xenosaurus alert. The creature has been sighted on the Slate City exit of the Venturock Freeway! It is driving a brown late model sedan and eating a white male Caucasian. Car twelve is in hot pursuit. He releases the bird, which doesn't fly away right away, but gives him a look. 
 (remembering) Oh, yeay... over and out! 
 (as it goes) Awwk! Car Twelve is on the way. Car Twelve is on the way... 
 (thrilled) Gravel, this could mean promotions for both of us! (trotting up to speed) Load the shotgun and turn on the siren! 
 What, and explain what you're doing in that costume? Start talking about coo-coo berries and Fibrerock? By then it'll be too late! FRED 'Hen yore height, yore height... Fred pours on more speed. They careen around a turn. CAMERA WHIP PANS TO a road sign: SLATE CITY--1 MI. 
 (hearing a siren) We'd better split up; that way at least one of us can make it to the Slate Needle -- ! 
 Sank you, sank you. Our nex' performance is Bam-Bam, Pebbles... (checking notes) ... an' friend. She steps aside as a spotlight picks out -- 
 You can keep the twist, the frug and hop -- 
. 
 Madame Slate, what ees wrong -- ? 
 MRS. SLATE I'll tell you what's wrong! This 'act' is an absolute disgrace! This is supposed to be a talent show!  And a pedestrian animal act like this belongs in a circus! 
 A circus, huh? Well, if our kids belong in a circus with their act, then your little nephew belongs in a zoo with his -- 
 Yeah -- a zoo where the animals are dead -- because if they aren't, they will be! 
 MRS. SLATE Why, how dare you! Mrs. Flintstein, I'll have you know that my little Poindexter has been trained by the finest tutors! Poindexter! Show them! Encore! 
 MRS. SLATE (alarmed) Ah... Poindexter... that's enough ... Poindexter...? 
 No sign of the driver... 
 You kidding? By now he's a couple of shinbones and a belch. Gravel drops down on one knee, excited.   He shines his light on Fred's big "clawprints." 
 Holy cowasaurus! Look how deep these tracks are! That xeno thing must weigh a ton! They aim their lights at the tracks, begin to follow them. Suddenly they round a corner and come face to face with -- 240   NEW ANGLE - FRED                                           240 
 Okay, lizard, reach for the sky! Fred hesitates... then, hearing a CREAK and GROAN, he looks at the HOUSE beside him. The stucco-like exterior of Fibrerock is beginning to crumble. 
 (frightened, backing away) Quivering quartzite, d-did you see that -- 
 (following him) O-one flick of his paw... and he knocked down a wall -- ! FRED Nogh, wate, chum baggk -- As Fred "roars" and moves forward, Feldspar and Gravel scream, panic, and run! 241   FRED                                                           241 Tries to catch up and collides with the already damaged house. It collapses totally, falling in on itself, obscuring Fred. Finally the last TIMBER DROPS. Pause. Fred staggers out of the rubble, realizes that the impact has knocked the monster mask off his head and back on its hinges. He rubs dust out of his eyes, turns and looks at the Slate Needle. He's much closer to it now. 
 Feldspar, if you ask me, you've seen too many Rockzilla movies: In all the Xenosaurus sightings we've had reported, not one has had this kind of wholesale destruction -- 
 Chief, you -- you gotta believe me -- just one swipe of its paw and -- wham -- a whole house was pre-history -- ! Suddenly one of those police DISPATCH PARAKEETS comes flying excitedly through the window, lands on a perch in front of the Chief. 
 Calling all cars. Calling all cars. Unconfirmed reports of destruction and collapse at Slate City. Rescue vehicles are on the way. The xenosaurus has been spotted in the area. That is all. That is all. 
 (excited) You see -- ? I told you -- 
 All right, Feldspar, I'm convinced! As of this moment you're completely in charge of operation... (dramatic) ... 'Xeno Dino'! Now, what do you need? CAMERA TIGHTENS ON Feldspar.     This is the moment he's waited for all his life. 
 (firm-jawed) Artillery. 
 (recovering) Fred, stop it! It might know the way inside! Fred "gets up to speed" and chases the xeno.         Barney follows. 
 WILMA                        BETTY Fred?                             Barney? PEBBLES                        BAM-BAM Daddy!                            Pop! 
 FRED                             BARNEY Piltdown?                         Pyrite? 
 What the devil's going on here? FRED It's real simple, Mister Slate. Your boy Lava here has been stealing the coo-coo berries from the Fibrerock mix and fixing the books to hide it! 
 That's ridiculous, Flintstone! Nobody could get that many coo-coo berries off our premises! (CONTINUED) 
 (dryly) These sure look like coo-coo berries to me -- 
 (smoothly) They're convincing fakes, Mrs. Rubble -- part of our exciting display -- 
 Fakes? (to Piltdown) Gee, Pilty, I thought the real ones were gonna be moved up here for us ta steal -- whatta waste a time -- 
 Pyrite, shaddup -- FRED (snapping fingers) Now I remember! These guys were pulling this xenosaurus act that night at the plant! What's this, Lava... 'Plan B'? 
 Uncle! Are you going to stand there while aspersions are being cast at the Slate family? This is absurd -- 
 Of course it is! Why, without the coo-coo berry sap, Fibrerock would be completely -- (realizing) -- unstable... 
 All right, all right, I admit it! I got in over my head in the stock market... took some big losses... I had these guys pull jobs for me all over town disguised as a monster... but it still wasn't enough... and when I saw all those coo-coo berries being delivered every day, I guess I just lost my head... I figured with the Woca sap in the Fibremix, the berry juice as superfluous... 
 I'll tell you what's superfluous, Lava... your liver! So why don't we remove it -- ! He leaps, snarling, on top of Lava... Fred and Barney pull them apart. Then, more falling dust and beams give everyone more pressing problems -- CUT TO: 255   EXT. NEEDLE - NIGHT                                  255 Rescue VEHICLES and police CARS ROAR up, slam to a halt, CAT SIRENS WAILING. The rescue workers jump out. Firefighters carry circular trampolines of hide stitched to bamboo frames; others go to the back of their trucks and start to turn cranks on the hook and ladder trucks to raise the ladders. 256   CLOSE ON A HOOK AND LADDER TRUCK                           256 
 Come on, come on, what's the hold up -- ? 
 It's the kibble crisis, sir -- the firesauruses have been on half-rations for a month! Above them, the BUILDING SHUDDERS again. 
 (pointing) Fred!   There's a fire hose -- ! 
 BAM-BAM D-dad, are we gonna be okay? 
 (pause; false smile) Sure, pal. We just gotta wait for the fire department. Right, Fred? FRED Y-yeah. Everything's gonna be just -- Whoa, hoo-hah, aggh -- (CONTINUED) 
 It must be the suit, Fred -- old Bedrock High built them things to last -- Fred looks over at the wall of flame separating the guests from the fire hose. As everyone gets the same idea, Dino rushes up, the costume head in his mouth. All brighten. 
 (rapping on the head) -- Okay? FRED Hist hust fine! He lowers his head, runs through the fire, which licks at him harmlessly. Then with his claw, he SMASHES the amber GLASS -- 
 Hey, what am I, chopped liver? 
 Come on, everybody -- we'll go out the way we came! Barney squirts a pathway with his flit gun, solidifying a route in the crumbling Fibrerock. Then Barney and Fred stand back nobly, wave everyone on into the adjacent Fibresphere. 
 (pushing and shoving) Outta the way -- outta the way -- women and children first -- ! I mean, ah, children and women first, yeah, yeah, provided that uh, there's room for the women... 
 Hey, not bad.    Wonder if she lives around here. 
 Heartbreaker! 
 (panicking) Oh, geez, we're all gonna croak -- I neva shoulda left Far Rockaway -- Wilma gives her a big suspicious look -- blanching, the Headmistress slides down the cable -- 267   BELOW                                                        267 The rescue teams catch the people in nets as they hit the ground. 268   ABOVE                                                        268 
 (to anyone and everyone) Fifty clams for a piggy-back ride ... a hundred clams! 
 MRS. SLATE (aghast) Do you see that, Jerry? Do you see how my great-nephew is behaving at this moment of crisis? 
 (proudly) Yeah. Real chip off the old block, ain't he? Embarrassed, Mrs. Slate grabs the kid by the neck, practically throws him at the cable. She follows him down, followed by Lava and Mr. Slate. 269   REAR OF FLEEING PEOPLE                                       269 
 (to Betty) Go on, honey... I got Bam-Bam! 
 Barney... tonight you're the biggest man in Bedrock. 
 Oh, Fred -- that's the most beautiful thing I've ever heard! They kiss... she drops to safety...! 
 W-wilma... those hoops of bamboo... those wires... do you think -- ? 
 Yes! Yes! Betty, we have to try it -- ! Dino! Dino, look down here -- ! 
 It's the xenosaurus -- stand back, men -- it's a vicious killer -- Ready -- Aim -- FRED (with desperate poignancy) High ham noght a zenosore! High ham hay hooman beeng -- ! BAM! WHAM! KABAM! Bullets and projectiles begin slamming all around Fred! He ducks behind a big fallen chunk of Fibrerock -- catches his breath as the bullets and shells bounce off its resilient surface. 286   CLOSE - FRED                                                 286 Momentarily safe, he tries desperately to remove that stupid head -- bangs it against the wall, tears at it with his claws -- -- meanwhile, the chunk of Fibrerock protecting him decomposes! He's back in the line of fire! 287   DINO                                                         287 
 Hey, those are the biggest shorts I've ever seen... (realizing) ... It... it must be Mister Flintstone! Cease fire! (to Feldspar) Gee, Sarge, now you don't have to shoot him -- ! 
 (distant) Dad! Dad! Can I use the Porscherock while you're in the slammer? Suddenly the Slates push their way into the group hug. 
 Flintstone. Rubble. I... I don't know what to say. I... I treated you horribly... I ignored you, abused you... and then you come here and risk your necks like this... well, there's no price you can put on something like that, so I won't even try. But let me give you... (with great poignancy) ... a hearty handshake. 
 MRS. SLATE Dear, don't you think a little more than that is in order? 
 Honey, you're being hysterical, go lie down, okay? 
 MRS. SLATE I am not being hysterical, I am being fair -- now the Flintsteins and Rabbles saved all of our lives, not to mention your reputation. 
 (sighing) Okay, okay. (to Fred and Barney) Boys, I'm feeling guilty about how you've been taken advantage of, so I'll tell you what... I'm going to give you back all world-wide rights to Fibrerock, free and clear. He picks up a fragment of stone, begins writing on it. 
 Your only obligation will be to cover oh, whatever legal expenses might surface at some later time... 
 You think there's gonna be some? Slate looks around at -- 290   HIS POV - THE RUINS AND DESTRUCTION                           290 Smoking desolation as far as the eye and CAMERA can see. As we watch the last remaining fragment of Slate City collapse, crushing a police car. 291   BACK TO SCENE                                                 291 
 (casually) Oh, you never know... 
 (sniffing it) Lava Lava leaves... Woca sap... all still there, but now the nutrients are all released... (realizing) ... Fred, this... this is Dino kibble! FRED Dino kibble...? Disbelieving, Fred moves over to the happily-munching animals. He has to get on his knees to wiggle in with the pack. He grabs some, stuffs it in his mouth... chews. His eyes widen... FRED (mouth full) Dhinough khibble!! He spits it out, takes out the chunk of contract Slate wrote on. 
 (V.O.) 
