 
 FADE IN: 
 (V.O.) On his 35th birthday, I decided to tell Julius Benedict the truth about himself... 
 (V.O.) It wasn't that he was the product of a scientific experiment. 
 (V.O.) An experiment designed to produce a physically, mentally and spiritually superior human being. I explained that to him when he was two years old. 
 (V.O.) And it wasn't the complexity of Julius's parentage. He knew that unlike other little boys, he didn't have just one, but half a dozen fathers, all very distinguished men.                                   * 
 (PERIOD) 
 (V.O.) Nor was it about the extraordinary woman chosen to be his mother... * 
 (V.O.) Julius had long lived with the tragic news that she died giving birth to him. 
 - 4/14/88                                           3. 
 (V.O.) What Julius didn't know, until this very moment, was that, about a minute after he was born... Another nurse emerges from the delivery room, holding up a second INFANT -- this one is SCREAMING with rage. 
 (V.O.) His mother gave birth to another baby... 
 
 (stunned) I have a brother?!!! CUT TO: 
 (speaks with an Austrian accent) He was sent to an orphanage in Los Angeles. At the same time I brought you here to the island. Julius isn't listening.    His eyes shine. 
 (amazed) I have a twin brother?!! (for a moment, chews on his right thumbnail) What's his name? 
 Vincent. 
 (moved) Vincent -- Every time I loved something I called it Vincent -- I called my first computer Vincent! (suddenly spins; starts off) I have to find him! 
 (fretting terribly) You've been here since you were a baby -- you know nothing of America -- 
 I know it is the cradle   of democracy and the land   of the free; besides, I speak   twelve languages -- I'm sure I   can get a job. (CONTINUED) 
 They're a simple people; rather primitive, not like us. 
 My brother will look after me. 
 It's your only copy -- 
 -- My need for it is only sentimental -- yours may be practical -- Julius slips the photo into his suitcase. 
 Thank you -- I'll miss you. 
 (holding back the tears) I'll miss you. 
                                * (as Julius hugs her)                            * It's sixty miles to the airport,                       * Julius; be careful.                                    * Julius then bows to the Oriental, who bows back. 
 (in Japanese; subtitled) It was an honor to study under you, Master. Without warning, the Oriental tries to strike Julius in the face with the side of his hand, but Julius blocks the blow. 
 (to Werner) I was just thinking, maybe my brother Vincent is married. 
 And...? 
 Well, if a woman loved my brother enough to marry him, she might have a sister who'd feel the same way about me. That often  happens with twins, you know. 
 Julius -- please -- don't get your hopes up. Your brother doesn't even know you exist. 
 (loudly as he disappears in the horizon) Of course he does. I've always known there was something missing in my life! And deep down, I'm sure Vincent feels the same way! He's probably just like meeeee! 
 You sleep well, honey? CARLA (SEXY YOUNG WOMAN) Mmmm... like a baby. 
 Me, too. I love this new mattress. It's soft but it's hard at the same time. And I love this new clock. 
 You've done a great job on this room, Carla. 
 You really think so?   Even the curtains? 
 The curtains are the key to the whole thing. They're colorful... they're brilliant... they're... great curtains. 
 (melting) You were great last night, Vince. 
 (not disagreeing) Naaaw... (putting his arm around her) I think we're going to be very happy here. Suddenly we hear a DOOR downstairs as it OPENS, and a man's voice drifts up the stairs: 
 (O.S.) Honey!   I'm home! 
 (a bit surprised but not panicked) What's he doing back so early? 
 (O.S.) Carla? You gonna cook me some breakfast or what? 
 Be right down, sweetheart! Vince checks his appearance in a dresser mirror, straightens his Armani suit, brushes his hair, pulls it into a fashionable ponytail. He cuts a stylish figure. Noticing an expensive gold lighter on the dresser top, he covertly pockets it. 
 Hurry up!   I gotta make breakfast! 
 You're wonderful, Carla. Your husband doesn't deserve to kiss your feet. 
 - 4/14/88                                      7. 
 (he's got a good voice) 'Oh what a beautiful morning, Oh what a beautiful day'... Now he does something surprising -- not starting to drive, we expect that. What we don't expect is his destination -- because what he does is simply turn the nearest corner and drive right back to the house he just snuck out of. 
 (exiting the car, still singing) ... 'everything's going my way'... CUT TO: 
 Carla, what a joy to look at you. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 VINCE (CONT'D) (as she gives him a look) Is my partner and best friend, Al home from work yet? I am the bringer of good tidings. 
." 
 Stop with that horrible song, you know how I hate birthdays; they're worse than Christmas. Al presents him with the gift. 
 (coy) For me? 
 Carla and I figured, since you were always admiring mine, what the hell... 
 A lighter, just like yours.   I don't know what to say, Al.   I'm all choked up. 
 (into phone) Hello -- the Greco residence... sure. Who may I say is calling... Mr. Burt Klane? Vince, it's for you -- 
 (into phone) Good morning, Mr. Klane. I hope you're having a wonderful -- (cut off) Yes -- no problem -- I have it. Yes. Today. Of course. 'Bye. Vince hangs up. 
 What are you doing talking to a loanshark? 
 (excited) That's part of my good news -- You know that money I picked up from the Jaguar we boosted. Well,                      * I put the money in the stock                           * market. I got this incredible                          * tip.                                                   * * 
 Oh no.                                                    * 
 I can't lose. Ever hear of P.V.T.                         * Industries? Probably not --                               * Secret takeover bid -- (CONTINUED) 
 You put the money on a stock?                        * 
 A very special stock -- and it was such a sure thing -- I borrowed another 20 grand from the Klane                      * Brothers. 
 (unbelieving) You borrowed from a loan shark to invest in the stock market? 
 On margin -- And as of last night I was ten thousand ahead. I'm                        * going to make a fortune -- turn on the T.V. CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) ... that Wall Street's suffering its worst single-day's losses since October '87. Hardest hit                       * were Federated Broadcasting, down $18, Waverton Data, down $24 and P.V.T. Industries, down $32. Analysts speculate that even blue chip stocks will not remain immune to... 
 You are having one shitty birthday, Vince. 
 I'm wiped out. I got to get some money -- fast.                                          * 
 Well... '88 B.M.W. came in for long term last night... 
 Don't you think you're doing this too often? 
 I'm a desperate man.                                    * 
 Level three.   Stall 25. CUT TO: 
 This is only four thousand -- 
 We're in a recession -- Everything's tough -- you want to try someone else -- no hard feelings. 
 (sourly) Forget it. 
 You okay, Vince? You seem a little worried. 
 Me? I laugh myself to sleep every night, and I never sleep alone. I'm doing great! The Owner smiles and turns. Vince continues counting the money, nervous as hell. Now -- CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) (singing) 'Put on your red dress, baby 'Cause we're going out tonight...' A few passengers turn and look back at -- 
 seated in the rear, still in his peasant garb, the bamboo suitcase resting on his lap. He has his headphones on and is singing along to the music, his eyes closed and his head bobbing. 
 (singing) 'I better wear some boxing gloves, In case some fool might want to fight.' 
 I knew you were trouble the second I laid eyes on you. Julius stares up at her, speechless and mesmerized. 
 (realizing) Sorry -- I've never heard this music before -- I love it.                             * She sighs, leans over him, fastens his seat belt, while Julius gazes down at her ample cleavage. 
 The captain wants us to buckle our seat belts because we're expecting a little turbulence. 
 (reading her name tag) Thank you, Betty Lou. (CONTINUED) 
 I bet you're a football player. 
 Actually, I'm a horticultural botanist, a mathematician, and a philosopher. 
 Right.    And I'm a brain surgeon. 
 HIJACKER (MAN) (to passengers) Nobody   moves, or else we're gonna have a   serious draft in here. (turns to another stewardess) Get the   captain. I want to discuss   our final destination. 
 turns to the terrified elderly woman beside him who's clutching a hardcover Bible in her lap. 
 (whispers) Excuse me, ma'am. 
 
 retrieving the hardcover Bible from the floor and -- 
 
 (gently; calming her) His mischief shall return upon his own hand, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own head -- Psalm 7:16. In front now, there is a lot of activity as various pass- engers hold the Highjacker, almost arguing over who's in control. Julius looks at them a moment, puts on his headset, closes his eyes and is soon bopping away to the music. CUT TO: 
 It's him.    He's back. 
 Marnie! How are you?        Is your                       * sister around?                                            * 
 You total Linda's car. You pawn                           * her stereo. You declare us as                             * dependents on your tax return!? 
 What an amazing memory -- 
 (O.S.) Vince!   I knew you'd come back! 
 (to Linda) I am so sorry for all the miserable things I've done to you. 
 Like what? 
 Linda! 
 (to Marnie) I'm not going to give him any money. Just take care of my station for a minute. 
 (emotionally) I didn't come here for a loan, sweetheart. I came to say goodbye. (beat)                                       * It's not safe for me here. People are trying to kill me. Vince starts to rise but Linda pulls him back down. 
 What did you do, Vince? 
 I got involved in the stock market. 
 (getting nervous) I promised Marnie I wouldn't give you money. Vince takes Linda's hand between his and stares into her eyes. 
 Don't look at me like that... Don't do that with your eyes... I shouldn't even be here with you. 
 (softly) You are here and so am I, Maybe millions of people go by, But they all disappear from view, And I only have eyes for you... Linda. I only have eyes for you. 
 (moved) That is so beautiful. How do you make up that stuff? You're such a poet. 
 You inspire me. * CUT TO:              * 
 (whispers) It's the baby Klane -- I gotta get the hell out. Burt Klane strolls to the middle of the room, then suddenly turns and faces Linda. 
 Where's the little shit? 
 (very nervous) You gotta be more specific, considering our clientele. 
 Benedict. 
 (laughs) He wouldn't show his face around here. Right, Marnie? * She looks down at -- * 
 
 (enjoying calling him names) Who, Vincent?                                           * (MORE) 
 MARNIE (CONT'D) -- That weasel, that creep -- that oily little slug -- that two-bit, two-timing, waste of space -- that pathetic, low-life pocket Romeo. 
 (cutting her off) Okay -- enough. CUT TO: 
 Look what I found crawling around out back. 
 This is only four thousand -- 
 The rest is invested.     We're gonna make a fortune. 
 (ominous) Shut up. (CONTINUED) 
 I hope this helps -- Please don't hurt him. 
 There you go -- (he counts Linda's money) -- Another thousand -- Okay -- This nice lady just bought you a day Vince -- I want it all -- Twenty- thousand -- this time tomorrow.                        * 
 Twenty -- ?   But I just paid -- Just as he opens his mouth, Vince is elbowed again. 
 That's just the interest.    The                       * twenty's the principal.                                * 
 That was the most wonderful birthday present anybody ever gave me -- 
 It's your birthday?   Why didn't you tell me? 
 (suddenly honest) I can't take the kindness.    It gives me the shakes. 
 You'll tremble plenty before we're through, Vince Benedict. They kiss. 
 (almost a whisper) ... How wonderful... 
 (to himself) What an amazing country. CUT TO: 
 #1 ROARING up beside Julius, smiling ingratiatingly. 
 #1 Got a light, pal? 
 Sorry, but I don't smoke... pal? 
 #1 (indicating "Fredericks") Looking for something for your girl friend? 
 I... don't have a girl friend. Do women really wear these things? 
 #1 If you're lucky. (a beat) You from out of town?                                     * (CONTINUED) 
 Yes, a small island in the South                      * Pacific, about 300 nautical miles south-southwest of Fiji... Biker #2,   bounds along, and when he reaches Julius he grabs the   handle of the leather case that Julius holds, his plan   quite obvious -- to steal the case and disappear into the   crowded street. Not an original plan, certainly, but one that over and over again, always works -- CUT TO: 
 Julius's hand holds fast to it.    Then -- CUT TO: 
 #2 As his mouth drops open as we -- CUT TO: 
 just sort of standing there, no big deal, not much effort showing on his face as Biker #2 begins to slowly rise into the air as he and his cycle are about to be parted and then -- 
 #2 
 
 - 4/14/88                                        26. 
 #2 
 ending its trip as it collides with a storefront and collapses on its side, MOTOR still ROARING but no movement anymore and -- CUT TO: 
 #1 stunned, going to his unconscious partner. 
 #1 (to Julius) What the hell did you do? Julius calmly kneels beside the still form. He puts his case down, and his hands move expertly across the prone figure. 
 I did nothing, the pavement was his enemy. CUT TO: 
 
 I would say -- a concussion -- a mild shoulder separation, and ribs four to seven are cracked. 
 Get him to a hospital. 
 - 4/14/88                                           27. 
 And in the future, you should both consider wearing helmets. A sweet smile. 
 Fifty-three dollars?   You gotta                         * be kidding. 
 Your vehicle's in a handicapped zone. Vince immediately hunches his shoulder and affects a limp. 
 So?    Do I look normal to you? 
 You don't have a 'handicapped' sticker on your windshield. (a beat) Driver's license, please. CUT TO: 
 You've got over 200 outstanding parking tickets, Mr. Benedict. And you just had your birthday? Well, your driver's license just expired -- Happy birthday.                               * (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) So, this is where my brother grew up. I'm glad he had so many friends to play with.                                     * 
 And that's where he must have slept. 
 How did you know? 
 It's the one I would have chosen. It's next to the fire extinguisher. In case of a fire, I could have given the alarm, and saved the other orphans. 
 We've only had one fire at St. Charlotte's. Vince Benedict started it, we like to think by accident. 
 Tell me about him. Was he a good athlete? Did he like chess and poetry? 
 I'm certain that God had a purpose when he created Vincent Benedict, but it had nothing to do with chess or poetry. 
 That's odd... the contents of his file are missing. Julius picks up the photo -- a 13-year-old boy leering up at an attractive young nun. 
 This is him?   He looks happy --                        * 
 (sighing) He should -- that's Sister Maria,                       * his biology teacher. 
 I always liked biology. 
 So did Vincent. He disgraced Sister Maria, who had to leave the order. Then he stole all the money from our library fund and ran away. 
 But I have to find him.   Where do you think he might be? 
 Jail. A man of his character could only be in jail. You're full of goodness, Julius -- I pray that you never find him. 
 (to Vince who is scowling at him) What're you lookin' at? 
 At you, you jerk. The Seven Footer rises angrily to his full size. Vince moves right in on him -- he may be going through a bad patch, but make no mistake, Vince is tough. 
 (to the others in the cell) Tyrone Davis, averaged 23 points, eleven rebounds and four blocks a game his senior year. First round pick of the L.A. Clippers and now look at him. 
 (stunned by the amount of information) Who're you? 
 (as he gives Tyrone a card) World International Athletics                           * Representation. Vincent Benedict -- President. I coulda got you a no-cut contract so you wouldn't have to heist T.V. sets for a living -- 
 
 Benedict!    Visitor. 
 - 4/14/88                                        31. 
 (moving away) Call me when you get out, they're always looking for centers in Italy... 
 leading an attractive, powerful inmate into the room. The guy is Julius's age. CUT TO: 
 trying to fight his excitement, watching as the prisoner moves toward him -- -- then past him. 
. (CONTINUED) 
 - 4/14/88                                         32. 
 (soft) Excuse me, but I'm looking for Vincent Benedict. 
 (pointing to Vince) You got 'im. Julius turns, looks at Vince, and as he walks back to his side of the cubicle and sits, he is overcome with the wonder of it all. 
 (impassioned, but a bit rambling; his emotions are in control) Vincent... dearest Vincent... I have rowed halfway across the world -- no, wrong, I only rowed one day but I came halfway across                     * the world -- I know you don't know who I am, but believe me when I say I have been waiting for this                      * moment all my life... It's hard to tell what Vince is feeling but clearly the look of dubiousness is gone. He picks up the phone on his side, gestures for Julius to do the same. As Julius does, Vince at last speaks: 
 You gotta talk into the phone,                        * asshole. Julius is confused, momentarily. 
 (understands now -- into the phone) Vincent... CUT TO: 
 listening, somewhat amazed.    Who is this loony? 
 (V.O.) ... Dearest Vincent... Vince glances quickly around to see that no one is listening. (CONTINUED) 
 (V.O.) I know you don't know who I am, but -- I came halfway across the world -- 
 (cutting in) -- Whoa. I still got another six hours to pay the money back. You                         * tell those crummy Klane brothers that harassing a man when he's already in the slammer is beneath even them -- 
 (overlapping -- they do this a lot) -- I don't know any Klane brothers. I'm your brother, Julius. 
 (stopped dead) Huh?    Again? 
 I don't know any Klane Brothers. 
 (wary) Yeah.   Go on -- I got that part. 
 My name is Julius -- I'm your twin brother. 
 (laughing) Obviously -- the minute I sat down I felt like I was looking in a mirror. 
 We're not identical twins. 
 I wouldn't be too sure. (CONTINUED) 
 (sad) You don't believe a word I've said, do you? 
 -- That's right. I don't believe a word you said.                                        * 
 Vincent, I don't lie. I am your brother. Let me help you get out                        * of here. 
 (now he's interested) Oh... you want to help me get outta here? 
 Yes. 
 Well, money talks, bullshit walks. 
 How can bullshit walk?   Is that slang? 
 (to himself) I'm in fast company here -- (to Julius) Listen, you get me outta here, I'll be whatever you want, best friend, brother, nephew, niece, grandma... 
 (to himself as he leaves) Just don't ask me to bend over -- 
 Listen, 'twinny,' I hope you didn't blow your wad on those tickets, 'cause it's gonna cost a bunch more to release my car. 
 I have some more money -- 
 You do? 
 I am happy to help you, Vincent. You're my brother. I love you. 
 Julius -- look -- ease up on the love talk or I'm gonna be tossing my cookies, all right? 
 Tossing cookies, that is more slang? 
 Just gimme your wallet, okay? As Julius sweetly hands it over -- 
 I know what you're thinking? 
 No, you don't. 
 You're thinking that this whole twin business is what you call 'bullshit.' 
 Actually, I was thinking I'm going to need some more money -- to put gas in my car -- 
 You can take some more money -- 
 I can? 
 Sure... 
 We're brothers -- right? Julius tries to drape an arm around Vince's shoulder. Vince gives him a look. Julius drops his arm. TIME CUT TO: 
 They arrest you, they put you                             * behind bars, they fine you and                            * then they hide your car.                                  * 
 That's -- (points) -- your car, isn't it? CUT TO: 
 VINCE'S MUSTANG Which is what Julius is pointing at. 
 Yeah --   How'd you know that was my car. 
 We're twins! (CONTINUED) 
 (very happy) I'm so excited -- we'll go to museums together, discuss philosophy together, read books together -- play chess together -- 
 -- Get lost together -- And on that, he GUNS his CAR the hell away, leaving Julius standing there. 
 Deserted, alone in the sea of cars. 
 Hey, the new Sedan DeVille... Very nice. The driver, GARFIELD, just nods, holds out his hand for the ticket. 
 You guys must be going to Hawaii, huh? Catch that good surf. 
 Something like that. The two men just stare straight ahead, uninterested in conversation. Al hands the driver a ticket. 
 There's plenty of space on level four. The Cadillac accelerates up the ramp. 
 as the men get out, lock the car, wipe off the door handles, and then head for the elevator. 
 IMPORT/EXPORT                         * AUTOMOBILE SALES - RENTAL - LEASING   * WHOLESALE PATIO FURNITURE             * His door opens and out come two furniture MOVERS with a desk. (CONTINUED) 
 What're you doing with my desk? 
 Taking back the furniture -- you're six months behind. 
 I tried to stop them, Mr. Benedict -- 
 It was time to redecorate anyway. The PHONE RINGS -- Miss Busby drops to her knees beside it. 
 (into phone) Vincent Benedict, Incorporated -- Sports agent, artist's representative -- import/export -- automobile sales, rentals, and leasing -- wholesale patio furniture -- How may I help you? (listens briefly) Oh, hi. (to Vince) It's Al. As she hands him the phone. 
 (taking it, talking to her, sweetly) Miss Busby -- Stacy -- this is a transition period for the corporation -- Why don't you take a few days off. 
 (a little lost) ... Aah -- all right. Whatever you say, Mr. Benedict... (MORE) 
 'Aqua-Velva' -- you shouldn't have -- She takes her purse, smiles, goes.    When he's alone, into phone: 
 I hope you got some good news,                         * Al --                                                  * 
 (into phone) Brand new Caddy on level four. CUT TO: 
 (thrilled) Great, I'll be right over. Vince drops to his knees in order to replace the phone into its receiver. He then scrambles up, straightens his suit, heads for the door, making sure his pony tail is perfect. CUT TO: 
 - 
 Time's up, Vincent -- Got the money? 
 In agony, on his knees. It hurts to breath.       He finally manages to look up at the giant -- 
 (gasping) Did you hit me yet? 'Cause I didn't feel nothin'. 
 He grabs Vince again. 
 You gotta understand something, Benedict -- I like my work. He pulls  Vince groggily up and this time he's going for Vince's  face. He takes his time setting Vince up, getting  his chin at just the right angle. He's concen- trating  on his work, so he doesn't pay much attention to the fact  that the elevator door has opened behind. 
 
 (quietly) These are most unfriendly acts you are committing. 
 (totally surprised) What? (CONTINUED) 
 I don't know what the problem is, but I'm sure it can be solved without resorting to violence. 
 (absolutely in agreement) Okay, okay. 
 Good.                                                 * Julius lets go of Klane, who gets to his feet, turns around, and instantly lets fly with his fist at Julius's face. 
 You moved too soon. Klane spins and aims a karate kick at Julius's head. Julius coolly ducks it and sends Klane crashing into a wall. 
 An important rule in a crisis                         * situation -- negotiate first, attack last. You never negotiated. You don't know what kind of enemy I am. 
 Who are you? 
 Vincent's brother. 
 (happily) We're twins. 
 You're firewood. (CONTINUED) 
 You have no respect for logic --                        * 
 -- And I have no respect for those with no respect for logic. You're a very stupid person. 
 CLOSEUP - JULIUS 
 Watching as Julius picks up Klane with both hands and lifts him a foot up into the air, holding him there for a pause. 
 
 
 As he heaves Klane across the corridor into the open elevator Klane crashes down hard just as the door slides shut and... CUT TO: 
 
 Tell your brother 'He messes with me, he messes with my whole family!' 
 (happy) I like it when you hit people! 
 I hate violence. 
 But you're so good at it. We ought to go into business together. You could be a boxer and I'll be your manager. 
 I don't think I could fight for money. 
 No problem. You do the fighting, I'll keep all the money. 
 (laughing) I'm worried about you, Vincent. * They reach Vince's Mustang and get in. 
 How much money do you owe? Don't lie -- we're twins, I can feel your pain. 
 (exploding) Why do you keep saying that? We're not twins, we're not brothers, we're nothing, and you're only in this car because I could use a little protection these days -- 
 (closing his eyes) Twenty thousand? 
 (a beat; then, quietly) Due this morning. * CUT TO:                * 
 I don't know where my head is -- I forgot I promised this friend of mine -- Sammy -- I'd pick up his car at the airport -- do me a big favor, okay? Drive this car back from the airport for me. 
 I'd love to. Julius reaches into the glove compartment, takes out the car manual, begins speed reading it, running his index finger down the center of each page. 
 What are you doing with that finger? 
 Learning to drive. Vince isn't sure what's going on at this point. Now Julius studies Vince's shifting moves, the way his hands work the steering wheel. Now he's back to the manual. Now he's staring at Vince. Vince and Julius's heads are both in motion now -- Julius's from the book to the wheel, Vince's from the road to Julius's finger. As their heads keep turning -- CUT TO: 
 What's the matter? 
 That dopey Sam -- He did it again. Forgot to leave the keys... A lot of handicapped kids are gonna be really disappointed... 
 (moved) Handicapped children? 
 - 4/14/88                                            48. 
 This car was supposed to be auctioned off at their charity drive tomorrow. Oh, well, let's go eat. 
 Maybe we should try to open it ourselves... Vince raises his eyebrows in mock surprise. 
 You think we should do a thing like that? 
 Of course -- it's for the children... CUT TO: 
 (feigning ignorance) I saw a guy from the auto club do this once... The door locks suddenly pop up in unison. 
 Whaddya know?    Beginner's luck! 
 As he takes a breath, opens the door, scoots inside -- 
 
 When the back end is raised to an angle greater than 45 degrees, a mercury switch activates the automatic cutoff system. The alarm's computer thinks the car is being towed away and shuts off. 
 No shit... It's beginning to dawn on Vince that there may be more to Julius than meets the eye. 
 (into phone) Vincent Benedict's car. (a beat) Vincent! Where are you? 
 (V.O.) Ya see that little dot in your rearview mirror? That's me. 
 (waving into mirror) Hi, Vincent. 
 (V.O.) There's a supermarket up ahead. Take your foot off the gas and very -- very -- very gently put it on the brake. 
 The brake -- right. 
 The brakes worked just fine! 
 Lemme tell you something about America, Julius -- nobody likes a smart-ass. 
 (as she reaches for some cake mix) Angel's food or devil's food? 
 The answer's obvious. 
 There's only one Vince Benedict. He's a force of nature. 
 And that 'poetry' he pretends to write. They're old song lyrics, Linda. Linda stops pushing the cart and looks at her. 
 I know that -- Geez, you don't think I know that -- ? (soft) It's so cute, the way he thinks he's tricking me. Anyway, what's wrong about other people's songs? Some guys tell you dirty jokes. It just proves that Vince has a romantic soul. CUT TO: 
 Adjacent to the express checkout lane where Linda and Marnie now join the line. Julius picks up a Playboy and begins speed-reading it. His eyes widen at what he's reading, and seeing, and when he reaches the centerfold he audibly gasps. 
 (O.S.) Excuse me. She reaches past Julius to take a copy of Cosmopolitan. Julius drops the Playboy, which falls open on the ground, with the centerfold revealed. Flustered and blushing, he bends down to retrieve it, watched by Marnie, who can't take her eyes off the sheer beauty of his physique. 
 (looking at the centerfold) She's not bad... 
 (embarrassed) I'm sorry. I had no idea these magazines had things like that... inside them. Julius tries to stuff the centerfold back into the maga- zine, but only manages to crumple it. Linda and Marnie exchange a look. (CONTINUED) 
 You didn't? Where've you been? (gulping) A desert island? 
 As a matter of fact, a small tropical island, in the South Pacific, about 300 nautical miles south-southwest of Fiji. I only got here yesterday, but already                        * I've found my wonderful brother.                       * * 
 Your brother? 
 (O.S.) That's right... They all turn and look at Vince, who's pulled his cart up behind them. 
 (proudly) My twin brother, Vincent. Linda and Marnie, stunned, look from Vince to Julius. 
 (to Linda) God you look beautiful in this light. 
 Vince... ?   I didn't know you had a brother. 
 You all know each other? 
 Julius, meet Linda and... (sarcastic) Her charming sister, Marnie. 
 (significant) Sisters? 
 (to Julius) Twins? CUT TO: 
 (waving) Goodbye girls, see you soon. 
 (waving) Goodbye girls, see you soon. And he guns off too -- only in his excitement he's gone into reverse. 
 (embarrassed) I've only been drivng for an hour. Now he follows Vince. 
 Why do I think I'm going to see him again? (beat) Like maybe tomorrow. 
 Linda is your girl friend, isn't she? 
 Yeah.   Kind of. 
 Is Marnie your girl friend, too? 
 Marnie! Marnie hates my guts. She seemed to like you. 
 (trying not to sound too interested) She hardly knows me. A beat. 
 That's the best way --   women love men who are mysterious   and devious. It keeps them on their   toes -- makes them excited you   know what I mean? 
 No. 
 You do like women, don't you? 
 Very much, they're... strange and sensitive and they have compassion. I have the highest respect for women. 
 Now correct me if I'm wrong. You're a virgin, aren't you? 
 That's private. 
 (to himself) He's a 230-pound virgin.                              * 
 (to cat) Alright! Alright! I got your food. Yes! 'Liver and Cheese,' 'Chicken Giblets,' all your favorites, Julius. 
 You named your cat, Julius? 
 The secret to take-out veal Parmesan is adding a little extra cheese. I know you're probably used to growing your own vegetables and spearing fish in the lagoon, but here on the mainland we just nuke it! 
 Dinner is served! 
 It's definitely empty. CUT TO: 
 He looks at the Cadillac key.    Clearly, he is not happy at the turn of events. CUT BACK TO: 
 (expansive) So, let me get this right. One of                    * our fathers was a famous football player, another one was a physicist at M.I.T. -- 
 He won the Nobel Prize. 
 Naturally... so all of our dads were these big shots and Mom was, like, Superwoman, but she didn't survive our delivery. I got sent to an orphanage while you were brought up in a tropical paradise by this scientist you do research for, but who doesn't actually pay you because you don't need money. (a beat) Did I leave anything out? Julius ignores Vince's cynicism. 
 I think it's important we try to find our fathers. 
 You mean, all those geniuses who contributed to the... (making a jerk-off gesture) ... Sperm milkshake?                                   * 
 Why are you being so immature about this?                                            * Vince throws down his napkin. 
 Do you know how many times I've heard stories like this? It's every orphan's fantasy: 'My real Mom and Dad were rich and beautiful, but there was a mix-up at the hospital and I got switched with another baby... But one day there's going to be a knock at the door and there they'll be with open arms, crying... "My darling! My treasure! We didn't know! How can we make it up to you?"' (a beat) I'm telling you this for your own good, Julius. It's a crock. Vince goes over to a trunk, rummages in it, comes up with a dusty mouldering folder from which he removes a yellow- ing piece of paper. (CONTINUED) 
 I liberated this from my file at the orphanage. Read it and weep. Julius takes the paper and reads aloud. 
 Dear Sister Anderson, your request for orphans benefits for Vincent Benedict has been denied. According to our files his mother did not die during birth. We have a current address for her at 172 Canyon Glen Drive, Los Angeles. Vincent's case seems to be one of simple abandonment and as such he is inelligible for aid. Vince snatches the paper back.    Julius stares at him, just stunned. 
 That's right, Julius, she abandoned me. 
 This letter was written thirty                      * years ago. We were five years old                   * -- Our mother... didn't die when we were born... (staring at Vince now) You've known all this time where she was and you never contacted her? 
 (angry) I don't know about your momma, Miss Perfect of 1952, but my momma was a slut, and if she's still alive, I hope she's in a lot of pain. She dumped me once -- no way she gonna get a chance to do it again -- 
 Vincent, if they lied to us about Momma for all these years, maybe they lied to her, too. We must find her, we must check this address.                                            * (CONTINUED) 
 Julius -- slow down -- I've got no time for this. You go hunt down                       * Mom, I've got a cash flow problem                     * to deal with. 
 (into phone) What! 
 (V.O.) We haven't forgotten about you, Benedict -- You better have our money tomorrow morning. Or else. 
 Or else what? Suddenly, Vince's    living room WINDOWS EXPLODE in a burst of GUNFIRE. Vince     and Julius hit the floor and try to shield themselves    from the SHATTERING GLASS. The sound of a CAR SQUEALING    away outside the window. 
 Everyone seems so angry in America. 
 The tests on the lower temperature gaskets look great. 
 Looks like an easy weekend. 
 (concerned) Mr. Garfield, there's a...                             * 
 (preoccupied) Not now. 
 Who are you? 
 (friendly) I'm Webster, it's okay. CUT TO: 
 on the sound of the name.      He looks at Larson.   A beat.        * 
 (terribly upset) Christ, man, you were never                            * supposed to come here. 
 (rattled) The deal was we were never supposed to meet. You're supposed to be... 
 Driving that Cadillac to Texas? (holds up his gloved hands) Got my driving gloves, got my driving glasses, got my hat... but no car. 
                                 * The car was there! The merchandise was in the trunk! Your instructions were on the cassette! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 LARSON (CONT'D) (to Garfield) He wants more money. That's what this is about. 
 Let me explain something to you. I have a reputation to uphold. People put their trust in me because they know I always deliver the goods and I always come back with the money. This whole thing is making me look very bad... professionally. 
 This is bullshit! The car was there. 
 That's right. The parking attendant thought we were off for Hawaii. 
 (a brief pause) The parking attendant? 
 He liked the car. We'd put on those damn loud shirts so we'd look like tourists -- 
 He asked us if we were going surfing. He was a jerk. 
 You know, I just realized that in                     * twenty years of service no other                      * client has ever seen my face. 
 (nervously)                                    * I don't think that's a problem. Webster pulls out a silencer-equipped pistol and puts a bullet in each of their foreheads. They lie very still and very dead. 
 Guess you're right.                 * 
 Thanks for everything, guys. I'll see what I can do about those Laker tickets. (a beat) Yeah, I'll tell her. 
 They want you to hold their calls. They're going to be working late. CUT TO: 
 (after a beat) Yes? 
 I'm terribly sorry to disturb your party and I realize this might sound strange, but I'm looking for someone who lived here a long time ago... (finally) Mary Anne Benedict. Granger reacts; he's speechless. Julius hands him the group photo of his mother, six fathers, Traven, and Werner. 
 She was my mother. Granger looks at the photo, then at Julius. 
 You're Mary Anne's son? 
 (pointing at photo) Isn't that you, Grandpa? 
 (to Girl) Why don't you go help your grandma with lunch, honey? 
 They told your mother that you died at birth... 
 I guess you could say I'm your father... 
 One of my fathers -- 
 (wistfully studying photo) 'Mary Anne Benedict'... I haven't said her name aloud for over 30 years. She was the love of my life. (shaking his head) The times I've wondered what would have happened if I'd married her... 
 Why didn't you? 
 She turned me down. Said she was afraid to have children. She took it real hard when they told her you died. She even stopped painting. Did you know she painted? 
 Until yesterday I didn't even know she might still be alive... Who told her we died? 
 'We'? 
 I have a twin brother, Vincent. 
 There's two of you? She never                            * knew that, either. 
 Mitchell Traven. He supervised the experiment for the government. (MORE) 
 GRANGER (CONT'D) He's the one responsible for all of this. He still runs the genetics lab at Los Alamos, New Mexico. 
 I'll go see him. 
 Watch out for him -- he's kind of a dickhead, if you know what I mean. 
 No, I don't -- but I'm learning. 
 (V.O.) Mr. Webster, I hope you're happy with the vehicle we chose for your little journey. When you get to Houston, phone 713/555-0342 and                        * ask for Beetroot McKinley. He will arrange to trade you a briefcase for the merchandise in the trunk. (CONTINUED) 
 (deciding and getting in the car) Sorry -- the car's been promised for a kid's charity. BODY SHOP OWNER Okay, four grand. As Vince starts to drive away: BODY SHOP OWNER (calling out) Okay -- Six thousand -- that's as high as I'm going... CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) Beetroot McKinley talkin'. 
 - 4/14/88                                          77. 
 (experimentally) -- Uh... Webster -- calling from California. I happen to have some merchandise you might want -- 
 (V.O.) It's the amount of enrichment I want to talk about. 
 Look, Beetroot -- if we can't renegotiate we wither and die. I'm not delivering any goddam Cadillac without knowing for sure I got twenty for my cut. 
 I guess twenty seems a little high to you. I'm a reasonable guy -- I'll take fifteen -- McKINLEY (V.O.) Listen to me, you poor excuse for a warmed over turd, a deal's a deal -- 
 -- But -- CUT TO: 
 (V.O.) I can do better than five here. McKINLEY (on his feet -- in a fury) If you can do better than five million dollars, take it!                               * 
 (hard to breathe) F-five million dollars... He writes down the proper amount now:       $5,000,000.   Then he kisses the piece of paper. 
 (into phone) Beetroot? 
 I'll see you in Houston -- after all, fair is fair. (staring at the written $5,000,000) I'll just have to find it in my heart to live with your offer... Vince hangs up, jumps up and screams with joy. He puts the cassette in his pocket, crumples up the piece of paper, and sky-hooks it into the waste basket. 
 Five million dollars! 
                                     * Your boss at the lot told me you                          * were on duty when the Cadillac                            * clocked in. Now what's his name?                          * 
 Okay... His name is Vince Benedict. 
 That's certainly a beginning. 
 (to Al) I'm really disappointed in you -- ratting on your best friend. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Carla) My best friend who's been screwing my wife for three years. 
 You knew? 
 All three years. 
 (indicating Webster; angry) And you never told me until there was a stranger listening? Shit, what about my reputation? 
 Where can I find Mister Benedict? 
 I'm not saying. 
 Let me get this right -- You're protecting the weasel who's been                        * screwing your wife for the past three years. 
 He's my friend. 
 Well, I guess I'll have to beat it out of you -- 
 Stop -- I'll tell -- He lives at 1622 Westridge Place -- He's got an office at the corner of Highland and Hollywood. 
 Thanks for saving me. 
 I always loved you, Al. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 CARLA (CONT'D) It's just I couldn't resist Vince. It's those eyes -- he does this thing with his eyes... 
 I love you too, Carla. 
 (getting up, heading for the door, shaking his head) No one's gonna believe this one. 
 (singing) 'Going back to Houston, Houston, Houston...' Vince tosses the items into the back seat of the Caddy, just as Julius jogs up the driveway and collapses against the Caddie door. He's red in the face, completely drenched with sweat, gasping for breath, having run all the way from Bel-Air. 
 (startled) Jesus! 
 (panting) Vince, the most amazing thing has happened. 
 You scared the living shit out of me -- 
 I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is. (CONTINUED) 
 (patronizing) Great. Julius, in his fervor, grips Vince by the shoulders. 
 She didn't abandon you -- she didn't even know you were born! 
 (feigning concern) Awww -- that's terrible. Vince removes Julius's hands, slides him away from the door, and opens it. 
 And she was told that I died! 
 Look, Julius, I'm in kind   of a hurry. Sammy wants me to    take the car to Houston. Much    bigger bucks when you raffle for   charity in Houston. Julius takes the map from Vince, looks at it. 
 (excited) -- New Mexico is on the way to Houston. 
 (snatching back map) A lot of places are on the way to Houston. I'll be back in a few days. Stay in my apartment. Run up my phone bill. Throw wild parties. Take advantage of me. 
 Vincent, we have to go see this man Traven in New Mexico! 
 No we don't. 
 Yes we do!   And I'm coming with you! 
 You know -- you're right. This is fate -- destiny -- But there's no way I'm gonna drive for 1500 miles with you smelling like that -- 
 (calming down) You're right -- I'll take a shower -- be right back -- 
 (to himself) Why does everybody have to like me so much? Vince gets out of the car and, although it kills him, tries to put on a happy face for Linda. 
 Happy birthday, Vince. 
 Oh please -- It's not my birthday anymore -- 
 Happy birthday, Vince.   Is Julius around? 
                                    * He's inside.                                            * * Marnie walks into the house.                                         * 
 (crestfallen) Where are you going? 
 Nowhere -- 
 You were going somewhere -- you weren't even going to say goodbye -- 
 Okay, okay -- look, you can't tell anybody this -- not even your sister -- but I'm onto something so huge it gives me a rash just thinking about it. 
 Like what? 
 I got something in here -- (pats the trunk) -- I don't even know what it is -- that's worth a fortune! 
 (shrieks) A fortune! That's great! 
 Never sleep with that man. Never loan him money. And never believe a word he tells you -- that's free advice. She slams the door shut. 
 Vince...? 
 (as if innocent) I borrowed a cup of sugar from her once... (CONTINUED) 
 I'm coming with you. I'm not letting you out of my sight. 
 No you're not. 
 I am because if you say 'no' one more time -- (suddenly shouting) -- I'll tell everybody you're hiding a fortune in your -- 
 (a hand over her mouth; he's beaten and he knows it) Okay, okay. Just don't let on to Julius. He thinks we're going to look up our ancestors, like in 'Roots' or something. 
 (O.S.) 'Put on your red dress, baby, 'cause we're going out tonight...' She puts the photo back as the sound of SHOWER STOPS. Julius emerges from the bathroom, clutching a towel around his waist, and freezes at the sight of Marnie. 
 (embarrassed) Marnie -- excuse me -- I was just taking a shower. 
 (holding up a box                                * of cookies)                                     * I heard you singing -- I baked some cookies for you. 
                                    * I guess it was a dumb idea.                             * (CONTINUED) 
 Not at all -- I'm really looking                          * forward to tasting them.                                  * (a beat)                                           * I should put on some clothes -- But I'm not sure... 
 Oh -- don't mind me. She turns her back to him. 
 I hope Vince doesn't mind if I borrow one of his shirts. 
 (while eyeing Julius through her compact) Just don't try wearing his pants. They both turn as -- 
 throws open the door, with a big smile on her face. 
 Guess what? Vince just invited us all to go to New Mexico and Texas. Vince comes in behind Linda, trying to conceal his exasperation. 
 That's a great idea, Vince. 
. 
 (O.S.) Open up, Benedict! I know you're in there! 
 (to cat) Your owner seems to be a very popular fellow these days. 
 Howdy. 
 Who are you? 
 It's not really important, is it? I wanted to feed the cat before I left. Webster starts for the door. Morris (the really big one) blocks the doorway, cutting Webster off. 
 I asked you a question. 
 Who are you? 
 (helping out) We're the Klane brothers. That's Burt and Morris -- I'm Bob. 
 Interesting genetic pool. You're looking for Vince Benedict, right? The brothers all nod. 
 Am I Vince Benedict? Morris stares hard at him, shakes his head. 
 So what's the difference who I am? (CONTINUED) 
 Hit him, Bob. 
 (to Morris) Your brothers seem to have a problem with their feet. (dangerously to Morris) It could be contagious. 
 (polite, as he leaves) Have a good, good day. 
 Did Julius like the cookies? Marnie shrugs. 
 I'm not sure... he said they'd provide one hundred percent of the average daily requirement of fourteen source vitamins in a high-fiber form that's an integral part of a properly balanced diet. 
 I think that's good. 
 I really hope so. 
 This ought to fit you. Julius removes the shirt he borrowed from Vince, who pretends to be horrified at the sight of Julius's huge muscles. 
 Whoa -- get away from that window! There's women and children out there! (staring at him) What is wrong with you? 
 What? 
 You allergic to something? 
 No.   Why? 
 What are those bumps doing all over your body? You're all swelled up. You look like you're about to explode. (CONTINUED) 
 (finally getting it) We can't all be born beautiful like you, Vince. Some of us -- Julius puts on the T-shirt and looks at himself in a mirror. Emblazoned across its front is a Hells Angel Death head and the motto: BORN TO BE BAD. 
 -- Are just born to be bad. It's you, Julius. Oooh, you are so scary... 
 Julius... As he walks past, Julius slaps her five. 
 Let's rock and roll. He opens the car door and climbs in. 
 (to the girls) It's his first T-shirt. 
 Good luck.                                               * 
 Thank you. 
 See you later. 
 See if you can get us a room with a king-sized bed, okay? Linda smiles at him, and winks. Julius, misunderstanding the sleeping arrangements, leans out the window. 
 (to Linda or to Vince) That's not necessary. I always sleep on the floor. Vince looks askance at Julius, then pulls the car away. HOLD ON Linda and Marnie, gazing curiously after them. CUT TO: 
 Now promise me something. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 VINCE (CONT'D) If this professor Traven says he's never heard of Mom, and us twins, and all our dads, and the experiment, I don't want you to be upset. (a beat) -- Because this is entirely possible. 
 You still think I'm making it all up, don't you? CUT TO: 
 (vindicated) Well, that's that. On to Houston. He leads a stunned Julius down the corridor, towards several armed security guards. 
 He's lying! 
 Keep your voice down. This place is crawling with security --                              * 
 For the first time in my life, I am -- (looking for the word) -- pissed off! 
 Don't do this to me. I got a car to deliver. The last thing I need is a detour in the slammer -- Julius furiously stops and turns around. 
 I'm going to make him tell us the truth... 
 No... CUT TO: 
 
 (indicating photo) That's our mother -- those are our six fathers -- that's Werner -- and that's you! Start talking! 
 ... How did you know my name? (CONTINUED) 
                                     * Holy shit.   It's all true.                              * CUT TO: 
 Chained and padlocked.      Traven unlocks it, pulls off the chains. 
 
 gazes at the "blender" we saw Traven demonstrating in 1953. 
 (awestruck) This must be where you made the milkshake... (CONTINUED) 
 But instead of just one perfect kid, Mom had two of us -- way to go, Mom. TRAVEN Wrong. The embryo split in two, but it didn't split equally. All                        * the purity and strength went into Julius. All the crap that was left over went into what you see in the mirror every morning. 
 (stunned) Whoa -- I'm the crap? 
 It's not true, Vince. 
 No, I want to hear this. (to Traven) I'm left-over crap? I'm no good? 
 He's wrong. 
 You tellin' me I'm a side effect!?! 
 (at boiling point) Tell us where our mother is...                         * dickhead! 
 If you're lying to me. (the famous snarl) I'll be back. Julius tosses him aside. 
 My life just got flushed down the toilet. 
 You're wrong, Vincent. Your life's just about to begin. 
 I'm genetic garbage. 
 Vincent, we're twins.                                * 
 (patronizing)                                 * I know this is a touchy subject                      * for you, Julius. But the fact is,                    * we don't look the same -- we don't                   * act the same, we don't talk the                      * same -- we don't dress the same.                     * 
 I know. 
 (angry) So how come if we're the same, we're so damn different.                             * 
 We had six fathers, Vince. We're different parts of a lot of different people. Vince is starting to get interested again. 
 Yeah? 
 And remember, I was taken to a beautiful island, protected, educated, loved, given every opportunity to grow, to dream, to create. But you had none of that. 
 You had nobody. Nobody to love you, nobody to trust you, nobody to encourage you. All life taught you was that the only person you could count on was yourself. Tears begin to well up in Vince's eyes. 
 You're the missing part of my life and I'm the missing part of your life. And when we find our mother we can fill the missing part of hers. We won't be alone anymore, Vince. (a beat) We can be a family. Vince looks at his brother.      A beat. 
 A family?   You really think so? 
 With like Thanksgiving dinner? And Christmas trees... 
 ... and a real home where you'll always be welcome. 
 Always? 
 Even when you've been bad. 
 Is this necessary? 
 I'm not introducing you to my mother dressed like some goatsherder from Albania. You need some new clothes. 
 Can I help you, sir? 
 Do I look like I need help? (indicating Julius) Here's the problem. (looking around) Maybe I'll try on a couple of things myself. 
 Do I look okay? 
 You look better, put it that way. We got to do something about the way you walk. You're moving a tad stiff, Jules. Ever see                         * Frankenstein? 
 I read the book. 
 That's not gonna help. You got to walk like you're moving in time to music. I'm not talking about military marches now, I mean Aretha Franklin, Otis Redding, Wilson Pickett, Archie Bell and the Drells and a couple of white                   * guys.                                              * 
 Like this... You just got to try to be cool, you know? Try these on. 
                               * Am I cool now? --                                  * 
                                 * Mr. Ice.                                           * 
 MARNIE/LINDA Wow! 
 (excited) We know where to find our momma! 
 Everything Julius said was true. I'm the product of geniuses! 
 I always knew that. 
 Of course, but it's nice to make it official. * 
                                      * Tommorrow we're going to finally meet our mother. 
                                       * And tonight we celebrate! 
 (embarrassed; a burst) Vince, you've got to help me -- I've never been out on a date before... what should I do? 
 Talk to her, buy her some drinks, dance with her. Girls like to dance. 
 Dance? 
 I guess you haven't done that before either. 
 Well -- forget all that disco shit, everyone's seen it. When I really want to romance a girl, I waltz with her. 
 You dance with them?                                     * 
 It turns them to putty in your hands. 
 He shoves a chair out of the way, making a little room. 
 Okay, come here, put your feet by my feet -- 
 (coming over) -- Thank you for this, Vince -- 
 (a pained look on his face) -- I said put your feet by my feet not on my feet! -- Julius looks at his brother, then self-consciously takes his hands. 
 I'll lead, you follow. Okay, one, two, three, turn... (AD LIB as follows) ... put your arm here -- you're breaking my fingers -- you're not wrestling a boar 300 miles south southwest of Fiji -- don't clench your teeth -- Vince begins to take Julius through the steps slowly at first, then as Julius gains confidence they begin to sail round the room, and we -- CUT TO: 
 (to Julius) Well, you've learned to waltz. Now it's time to introduce you to the wonderful world of getting shit-faced. CUT TO: 
 Did you know they had beer in ancient Egypt? 
 Er... no... 
 Actually it was invented by the Assyrians, but the Eygptians were the first people to perfect the malt fermentation process. 
 You sure know a lot about beer. 
 He knows a lot about everything. Julius polishes off the bottle, belches. 
 But it's all from books. Until tonight I never had a beer. All theory, no practice -- the story of my life! 
 Well, we're going to change all that -- aren't we, Marnie? Julius, embarrassed, looks over at Marnie, who's smiling sweetly at him. 
 Can I ask you a question? 
 Anything... 
 Am I shit-faced yet? Linda, surprised, does a spit-take with her beer. 
 (laughing) You're getting there. Vince gets to his feet. 
 Please excuse me -- my back teeth are floating. 
 I better see if mine are, too. Julius takes off after Vince. 
 You do that too, huh? (CONTINUED) 
 (lying) Not all the time. (a beat) Listen, Marnie's got the hots for you. Tonight could be your lucky night... 
 I don't think she really likes me. 
 Piece of cake. You're nervous 'cause it's your first time. Perfectly natural. 
 Were you nervous? 
 I was twelve and she was a nun -- that's real pressure. They both finish at the urinals and begin washing at the sink. 
 I got to admit it, Jules -- since I met you, life is getting better all the time. Julius, a little smashed, can't hide his feelings.    He grips Vince by the shoulders. 
 For me, too, Vince! Sometimes I'm so happy, I want to pick you up and hug you! Julius starts to do so, just as another man enters. 
 Hey, cut it out! Not in here! Julius releases Vince, who clocks the other man's reaction. 
 (to Julius) Go easy on the beer, okay? 
 Lookin' forward to it. 
 (to Webster) Sorry, Webster, looks like I'm doin' business with someone else. 
 (nods) I'd do the same thing. You want the delivery, it's not your problem who delivers. (handing him a card) If you ever need me, my answering service forwards all messages. And he's gone. 
 (handing card to bodyguard) Put this in my personal file. (staring at the door) God, I love a professional... 
 Did you tell anybody we were coming to Santa Fe? 
 (unconcerned) Well, I phoned work and told them we wouldn't be coming in for a few days... Oh, I forgot to tell you -- we've been fired. 
 (tight-lipped) Let's go to the ladies' room. 
 But we just went. Linda takes Marnie by the hand, just as -- 
 Hello, girls -- Do you mind if we sit down and enjoy the music with you? CUT TO: 
 This has gone way past a simple case of loan deliquency. 
 We don't like getting shot.                                * 
 What are you talking about?    We didn't shoot anybody. (CONTINUED) 
 It's no way to do business. 
 What do you want? 
 We want to take Vince out to the parking lot and kill him. A long beat. 
 That's kind of drastic, don't you think? 
 Let's go. 
 (ominous) Don't touch him. 
 (suddenly rough)                                  * This is not your problem -- you                          * don't want me to hurt these lovely ladies, do you? He pushes his gun into Marnie's side. 
 (cries out) -- Ow! 
 You moved too soon... 
 What? 
 The second rule in a crisis situation: 
 (wary) He's starting that funny talk again... 
 If you choose to bluff, you must be prepared to have your bluff called. 
 This is no bluff -- Asshole -- 
 Meet my cousins. (to the Klanes) Get these jerks outside. 
 How many of those... rules do you have? 
 Quite a few. They were formulated by a Kendo swordsman in the 17th century, but their philosophical underpinnings can be applied to many other areas of life. 
 I bet. 
 Uh... we got cable TV, a fully stocked bar, free ice -- we're in great shape. 
 Where you going? 
 I thought I'd just go and tuck Linda in for the night. 
 Maybe read her a bedtime story. (with a wink) Don't wait up for me. 
 What a day, Vincent, we visited our birth place. We bought new clothes. We danced the waltz. We get into a fight -- We've got this great room. (heart-felt) It just doesn't get any better than this. 
 Oh yes it does. TIME CUT TO: 
 
 (calling out) You forgot your key -- I know. Lucky I waited up. Julius opens the door, revealing Marnie, who walks in right past him. 
                                    * Hi.                                                     * 
 Hi -- Vince and Linda want to be                        * alone, so I'm afraid I'm going to stay here. Which bed should I take? 
 (stunned) Either... I always sleep on the floor. 
 Good night. 
 Good night. Julius puts the blanket and pillow from the other bed onto the floor between the two beds, then shuts off the other lamp. Silence... 
 This mattress is awful. Getting out of bed, she pulls the blanket and pillow with her as she steps over Julius, who tries not to look up, and gets into the other bed. 
 Sorry.   Good night. 
 Good night. 
 This mattress is just as bad as the other one. 
 This is better... Good night. 
 Good night. 
 Are you cold? 
 It's alright. 
 No, please, take my shirt.      I'm               * baking. Julius strips it off and hands it to her. She puts it on and pulls the blanket over her shoulder. Again she shivers. 
 You still cold? 
 Just my legs. 
 Well, I could give you my... 
 (sitting up) Thanks. 
 Anything else? 
 I'd love a glass of water. 
 (realizes that he's now nude) Right. 
 Thanks. 
 Oh, great! 
 Do you mind if I share your blanket? -- Mine's all wet. 
 (gulps) No -- that would be okay. They both lie down under his blanket.      Silence... 
 Could we switch sides?   I like to sleep on the left. 
 Sure. She starts to roll over Julius, then pauses directly above him and looks him dead in the eye. 
 Can I ask you something for a change? 
 Anything. 
 Do you like me? I mean, even a little bit? 
 I... I'm crazy about you, Marnie. But there's something about me you ought to know. 
 What? 
 (looking away) I'm a virgin. (CONTINUED) 
 (under his breath; counting) -- Eighteen -- nineteen -- 
 You sick or something? 
 Julius gave me a few pointers -- (counting) -- Seventy-five -- seventy-six -- I don't need to exercise, but Mom's gonna see me for the first                       * time in thirty-five years, I wanna look my best. 
 She'll love you whatever you look like. 
 I know she will -- I have that effect on people -- (counting) -- One hundred and forty-three --                      * one forty-four --                                      * (beat) -- I just hope she's not too disappointed in Julius -- he can't help how weird he seems at the start -- 
 I think you're nervous. 
 Hey -- I sleep great every night -- (beat; softer) -- what if she's disappointed in me? 
 (pats the bed) C'mere. 
 (final sit-up) Five hundred. (gets up) Don't want to overdo. He goes into her arms. 
 If she's disappointed in you, then she's a fake -- who could want more from a son? 
 (thinking about it) You're right. (a beat) I couldn't do this without you, Linda. 
 I know. That's why, when we get back, I think we should move in together. 
 (threatened) Whoa!   Move in together? 
 I'm not saying we have to    get married or anything, and    it's not about me wanting to keep    an eye on you, either. (warmly) I just want to live with    you. 
 I'm no good at playing house -- I'm grouchy in the morning, cranky in the afternoon, moody at night -- (CONTINUED) 
 I promise not to try and make you happy unless you want me to. Vince is clearly unnerved by the twin emotional demands of Linda and meeting his mother. 
 Why don't we sleep on this, okay? I mean, I've got a big day tomorrow. (shifting gears) It's gonna be great -- taking my best girl to meet my mom. 
 Am I really your best girl? 
 There's nobody else, Linda, not anymore. 
 There better not be, because... (quoting) 'I only have eyes for you...' They kiss. 
 Are you sure you've never done this before? 
 I think I would have remembered... 
 Let's get her some flowers. 
 Good idea. One bunch from me, one from Jules. 
 And one from us -- Julius smiles happily at Vince's thoughtfulness. 
 It's very beautiful, isn't it, Vince? 
 Not to mention valuable -- real estate like this must be worth a fortune. 
 (a rebuke) You mustn't always think of money. 
 (innocent) You got me wrong -- I'm just saying it's nice Mom's loaded -- that's a worry she won't have to have in her old age. Julius smiles at Vince and rings the bell. A MALE CUSTODIAN answers the door -- friendly but very firm. 
 Can I help you? (CONTINUED) 
 We'd like to see Miss Mary Anne Benedict, please. 
 I'm afraid that's not possible. 
 We've come a long way. I can assure you she's going to be very happy to see us. 
 I suggest you write a letter to the Benedict Foundation stating your business. The Custodian politely closes the door in their faces. 
                                     * A foundation? 
 (indicating the bucolic scene) You think it's her? I do. 
 Gotta be. (as they still stare) Well, don't just stand there. 
 Introduce yourselves.                                   * As they take a step in the direction of the painter. 
 (O.S.) (sharp and loud) Hey! 
 
 Should you be here? 
 (tries to joke) That depends on how you feel personally about trespassing. 
 (umamused; to Julius about Vince) Is he always funny like that? 
 (very politely) We'd like to see Mary Ann Benedict please; is she here? (CONTINUED) 
 'Course she's here -- (shakes her head) -- climbing over the wall like that, I should call the police -- 
 Please don't do that -- look -- this isn't one of your average everyday situations -- she's our mother is the thing. 
 We're her sons. 
 Twin sons. 
 -- You're comedians -- 
 We're kind of a surprise. 
 (takes off her gardening gloves) I'll bet you are -- follow me. 
 (whispering to Julius) We were right -- 
 (softly) -- It is her -- 
 (confused) We thought that that woman -- 
 -- Is Mary Ann? 
 No -- This is an artist's colony; there's a lot of painters. (CONTINUED) 
 This is some chunk of real estate -- Mom owns it all, I guess. They are heading toward a door in the garden wall. 
 You can't really own something like that view over there, or that sunset, can you? 
 (a believer) No, of course not. 
 (to Linda and Marnie) I can't wait to meet her. 
 This way, please. The Gardener ushers them towards a door in the garden wall. She opens it, politely stands back, letting them go through it. They turn back to look at her. 
 Mary Anne Benedict never understood why people wanted to buy her paintings. But for a brief period they were considered valuable. She used the money to buy Whispering Pines so that young artists would have a place to work. 
 She's not famous anymore? 
 She never wanted to be famous. She just wanted to be left alone. 
 May I ask you a question? (a beat, concerned) Why do you keep referring to her in the past tense? 
 Because she passed away, some time ago. 
 But -- but you said she was here -- 
 She is -- I meant her spirit.   Her spirit is always here. (a beat) Excuse me. The Gardener gently closes the door in their faces. 
 (behind the wheel) Can we get the hell out of here? 
 What was that all about? 
 These real estate developers won't be happy until they turn this place into a golf course. 
 Now they're climbing over the walls? 
 They're shameless. They'll try anything. (bitterly amused) Those men claimed to be my twin sons, if you can believe that. It was really quite disturbing. 
 Oh, Mary Anne, I am sorry... 
 You ought to be so proud of your mother, Vince. She donated her house and her land and all her paintings to help young artists. 
 Do I look like a young artist to you, Linda? 
 (gently) Vince, all she meant was -- 
 (picking a fight) I know what she meant. And I know why she's here, too. It's got nothing to do with my mother and everything to do with money. 
 You know that's not true. 
 (hard) Bull-shit. Julius, who's been quiet and distant throughout, suddenly intercedes. 
 Take it easy, Vincent.   It's not her fault. 
 You hear that, everybody? The                          * creature from the black lagoon                         * just put in his two bits. I                            * should have my head examined for listening to you in the first place -- deal-of-a-lifetime opportunity and I'm driving around looking for a dead mother. 
 (very sad) All I wanted was to make us into a family. 
 (stands up) Family, my butt. There's no family here. There's just me and three losers -- I'm leaving. (CONTINUED) 
 Vince -- quit acting crazy -- 
 (stunned) He dumped us in the middle of New Mexico. 
 We'll be fine. And maybe he'll be better off alone. 
 You don't know -- he's got something worth maybe millions in that trunk -- he could get himself killed delivering it. 
 He's been getting out of trouble all his life, he's good at it. 
 He may need you. 
 (voice flat, dead) I don't know much anymore -- on the island I was smart. Here, I've only made things worse. 
 Don't you realize you could make things a lot worse if you don't do something. (gently; close beside him now) Julius -- you're still very smart it's just you're not thinking so well right now -- on account of what you found out at Whispering Pines -- but you're not alone, you know -- I mean, you live long enough, everyone's mother dies... 
 Okay, Beetroot -- It's time. I'll be there tomorrow -- where do we meet and trade? 
 (to Linda) Don't worry, Linda. I found him once, I'll find him again. 
 Be careful...                                              * 
 He turns away. CUT TO: 
 watching. 
 
 (holds up cigarette) Got a light, pal?                                      * Julius, without breaking stride, turns his head, looks at the Creep. 
 (scary) Don't fuck with me... pal. The Creep falls back. 
 (O.S.) Step away from that car, Mr. Benedict. 
 I thought we had a deal here. 
 (to Beetroot) This is it. 
 This is what? 
 (to Vince) You come here alone, unarmed? You're just a fool who stole a car, aren't you? It's a new, low-                      * cost fuel-injection system for                         * jet engines -- worth a fortune to                      * the company that brings it to the                      * market first.                                          * (ruthlessly; to                                 * Bodyguard) What are you waiting for? 
 Five million dollars -- 
 (sarcastic) You wanna count it? 
 I trust you. 
 emerges from the shadows with a powerful pump action                * shotgun. He opens the Caddy and pushes the dead                     * Bodyguard off the horn. Beetroot has a hole in his head, as well. 
 (calling out) All I want is the money, Benedict. Just give me what's mine and you can go back to stealing cars and screwing your best friend's wife. 
 
 
 
 FIRING at the sound. He can't see Vince but he pours his fire at the window Vince broke -- large chunks of the              * BUILDING EXPLODE off wherever Webster fires.                           * 
 Pack it in, Vince, you're only wasting time -- I don't give a damn about you, just the money -- He's reloaded during this -- moving forward as we... 
 
 moving in on the shattered window.     A bit irritated. 
 Vince, if you don't cut this horseshit I may have to hurt you. 
 (over) Leave my brother alone! 
 I've got the money. 
 (gun trained on Julius) Well don't be shy -- (gesturing) -- come on down. CUT TO: 
 No way... this is bullshit... (eyes snapping open) Julius, you putz. 
 Just exactly who are you? 
 Vincent's twin brother -- we're in this together. 
 Keep your hands that way. 
 Don't be nervous -- I hate violence and I never carry guns. 
 (muttering) Goddam ESP-psycho-voodoo bullshit... 
 (disgusted) 'Shakespeare's Collected Works'?... 'The Mind of Confucius'?... 'Advanced Quantum Mechanics'?... What is this shit? 
 I needed something to read on the airplane. 
 (raising rifle) Yeah, well your flying days are over... 
 (O.S.) Put the goddam gun away -- you're a multimillionaire. CUT TO: 
 hands held high, appears, stands beside Julius. 
 
 I am never going to forgive you for this. 
 You were going to get killed. I tried to distract him so you could escape. 
 I had escaped. I was on my way to Brazil -- when I felt you. 
 So, why didn't you go? 
 Because, thanks to you, I'm now not only a godamn psychic, I've got this disease called a conscience! 
 Nobody ever said being good was easy. 
 How am I going to survive out there? What are my friends going to think? 
 (smiling) You haven't got any friends. 
 Just what are you two talking about? 
 (to Webster) Butt out, okay? This is family stuff, we're squabbling, it's personal, just take the money and go sit in the lap of luxury somewhere. Try Brazil. 
 (cocking his shotgun) I doesn't work like that, you might talk to people -- (aiming the rifle now) Who wants it first. 
 Shoot him.   This whole thing is his fault. 
 Whatever you want. 
 -- Hold it, don't I get a say in this? Webster points the shotgun at Vince, starts to squeeze the trigger when -- 
 pulls a gun from his sleeve and blows Webster's weapon out of his hands. Webster screams in pain, clutching his hand, dancing around. 
 (amazed) You can be an irritating pain -- but sometimes you come in handy. -- Where'd you get the gun? 
 From the dead man in the car. 
 (to Webster) You should have checked if he had a gun, chump. 
 He said he didn't believe in them. 
 (proudly) I lied. 
 (teasing) Ooooh -- you lied? 
 I had to. Vince beams with deep fraternal pride.       Then he turns to Webster and snatches the case back. 
 Looks like you messed with the wrong people, wise guy. 
 You got lucky. 
 (smiling) But your luck just ran out. A stream of gas is pouring out of the drums that Webster punctured whilst he was shooting at Vince. It runs in a broad stream across the warehouse floor, right beneath Julius and Vince's feet. Webster is holding his cigarette out, ready to drop it in the fuel and incin- erate them. 
 Drop the gun and give me back the case, or we're gonna have ourselves some barbecued Benedict. Julius drops the gun and Vince slowly hands back the case. Webster smiles and backs off down the stream of gas, still holding out the cigarette. He stops at the very edge of the building. 
 Well, I guess this is goodbye. He raises the cigarette, ready to throw it. 
 Wait a minute. Webster looks up. 
 You've forgotten something. Webster grips the case tighter. 
 I don't think so. 
 The third rule in a crisis situation. 
 The third rule? 
 (smiling) Duck. Suddenly the load hanging from the boom of a nearby crane smashes into Webster's back, and then dumps on him, burying him in rubble. 
 (even more amazed) Duck? (can't believe it) Duck? You are developing real style, Julius. 
 drapes his arm around Vince as they walk towards the unharmed attache case full of money. 
 You came back for me. 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
 I always knew you would. 
 You're my brother, right? (as Julius smiles) We're family, right? 
 Thank you, Vincent. 
 (with a gleam) We're a rich family, right? 
 We're a good family. I'm sorry, Vince, but we have to return the money. (CONTINUED) 
 Return the money?!? Are you nuts?!? This is dirty money,                            * Julius -- it doesn't belong to anybody -- 
 -- Including us -- think how much                       * better you'll feel when it's out of our lives -- 
 (almost jumping up and down) -- I won't -- I won't feel one bit better -- I'll never feel better, not if I live to be... oh no --                         * As the sound of POLICE SIRENS get LOUDER we -- FADE TO BLACK. 
 I think you'd better read this... 
 (O.S.)                         * You stole my family, you lying son of a bitch! 
 Linda, I -- 
 What the hell are you doing here? 
 You wouldn't answer     my calls or my letters, so I...     Look, I made a terrible mistake     and I apologize and I want to tell     you that I'm a changed man. Linda is almost buying it, but then -- 
 How did you get in here? 
 Well, there was a window in the back that -- 
 (resigned again) Typical. She walks past him, approaches her door, puts in the key. Vince follows, speaking softly, his sincerity absolutely genuine. 
 All I ask is for another chance. I know I probably don't deserve it, but -- 
 You're right, you don't deserve it. 
 
 
 I had to break into your apartment, but -- 
 Vince, they're beautiful. 
 So, do you forgive me? Linda hesitates. 
 Yes, but... 
 But? Vince looks at her, understands. 
 You mean, that matter we talked about once and never really resolved. 
 (feigning ignorance) What matter is that? 
 The matter of you and me living together. 
 (haltingly) What about it? 
 Your place or mine? 
 (into phone) What do we do? Most people on this planet cause problems -- the Benedict Corporation solves them. We're a consulting firm -- a think-tank -- sort of like the Rand Corporation -- only smarter! (a beat) Tuesday at three. See you then. 
 Look at this, Vince -- proposals from the Red Cross, UNICEF, the World Health Organization -- we should only have clients who do humanitarian work. 
 Just as long as they pay -- we're not running a charity, you know. 
 Come in! 
 
 It's so incredible I'm not even sure which one of you is which. VINCE AND JULIUS 
 You see, I didn't believe you, I mean who would believe a story like your story -- crazy -- They lied to me all these years... And they lied to you... But you found one another ... And you found me... Please -- God -- one of you say something. 
 (softly) Momma? Mary Anne nods. 
 (softly) Mamma? 
 (anguished wail) 
! They both run to Mary Anne and hug her for all she's worth. They're laughing, crying, holding each other. Slowly, we... 
 Watching them. Now there are tears on his face, too. He goes to them, gently puts his arms around them, lifts them both up in to the air, cradling them. They're laughing.   They're crying.   They're holding each other. 
 I just can't get over how alike they are... The three women all turn and gaze affectionately back at -- 
 They kepp you up all night again, too? (CONTINUED) 
 Sceaming in stereo. 
 (to baby #1) I think you need your diaper changed. (to baby #2) What a surprise -- so do you. 
 (checks his babies) Not you, too -- It's not a competition, you know. They both start pushing their strollers again. 
 Just think what we'd be like if we'd been raised together. 
 Now that's a scary thought. They both yawn simultaneously once again. 
. 
