 
 He is strong. 
 ... hello. 
 The baby is healthy. Why does she cry? 
 (a beat; then) She is human. 
 MIDWIFE (CONT'D) Sarek arrives. 
 Well done. 
 Thanks. 
 Your tone suggests disappointment. The Science Council required my presence for a session regarding-- 
 Don't do that.     You knew I wanted you here. 
 As you are aware, the Vulcan male is traditionally not present at the moment of delivery. 
 Well traditionally, I'm not the one giving birth. (then) (MORE) 
 AMANDA (CONT'D) I moved here -- to another planet -- to be with you. I needed you to be with me today. Holding my hand and telling me I'm doing great, even when I'm just... breathing the best I can. 
 You are correct. I should have been here. I am sorry. 
 SAREK (CONT'D) I had a thought. That we might name the child after one of our respected early society-builders. His name was "Spock". 
 SAREK (CONT'D) Your silence does not suggest enormous enthusiasm. 
 No... Spock. (smiles, touches his face) ... Spock. 
 The child has your eyes. 
 ... and your ears. 
: 
 Report. 
 Sir, new contact bearing zero-three-four. 
 Any response? 
 No Sir -- hails met with silence. 
 Maybe they're incapable -- any identifiable damage? 
 Negative, Sir -- but our readings seem confused-- 
 Confused? 
 -- not only is the ship unregistered -- but even its construction materials seem unrecognizable. 
 ... oh my God... (to himself, boggled) A lightning storm... then this... (to deck) Signal all departments: first contact protocols. Looks like we have someone new on the block. All Stop. 
 Sir, should we initiate an invasive scan? 
 That could be seen as an act of provocation -- all readings passive-- 
 Damage report! 
 Our shields did nothing, Sir! Never seen anything like it! Weapons off-line! Main power at 38 percent! 
 -- what was that-- what's happening?! 
 -- you're okay-- thank God-- where are you? 
 Medical bay-- I had a few close contractions-- I'm fine-- what was that? 
 Just sit tight-- stay there-- we'll be fine-- 
 They're firing another, Captain! 
 -- -- 
 All remaining power to forward shields! Prepare the shuttles f-- 
 My commander requests the presence of your captain in order to negotiate a cease-fire. You will come aboard our ship via shuttlecraft. Your refusal would be unwise. 
 Walk with me. 
 If I don't report within fifteen minutes, execute general order 13. 
 Sir, we could issue a mayday call to-- 
 (frightened, but firm) There is no help for us out here. If we're going down, we're taking them with us -- you save as many as you can. 
 ... aye, Captain. 
 You're Captain now. Mr. Kirk. 
 Lieutenant Pitts. Transfer Robau's vital signs to the main view screen. 
 Yessir. 
 Vitals on line. 
 (slightly awkward) -- thank you. 
 Computer, initiate departure sequence. 
 The shuttle's pulling out of main bay, Sir. 
 I want to see him -- floodlights please. 
 His heart rate's elevated-- 
 He's scared. 
 He's brave.    That's what he is. 
 Are you familiar with this craft? 
 Who is your commander? (silence, then re: Nero) Is it him? 
 You will speak only to me. 
 Then ask your commander what right he has to attack a Federation vessel. 
 That was hardly an attack. My commander will easily destroy your ship. If you do not respond to the question. 
 I've never seen it. Or any ship like it. 
 Are you familiar with -- or better, know the location of -- Ambassador Spock? 
 I am unfamiliar with Ambassador Spock. 
 A final question. What is the current stardate? 
 (the fuck?) ... Stardate? ... it's 2233.04. (finally) ... hey, where are you from--? 
 I'm initiating General Order 13! Set self-destruct for maximum matter- antimatter yield! Two minute countdown! 
 Yessir! 
 I want auto-pilot targeted for their fuel cells! 
 Sir, unable to locate the ship's power source! 
 Then just target the damn thing dead center! 
 We got bigger problems: the first hit destroyed auto-pilot! (MORE) 
 HELMSMAN (CONT'D) The only way we're gonna ram that ship is to fly manual control! 
 -- then I'll do it myself -- get to the shuttles, now! (no one moves until:) THAT'S AN ORDER! GO! 
 We're packing it up -- you'll deliver in the shuttle! 
 -- George! 
 I have medical shuttle 37 standing by, get to it now -- can you do that? 
 Yes -- where are you? 
 I'm on my way. 
 Good-- and George, it's coming-- our baby, it's coming now. 
 I'll see you in a minute, sweetheart. 
 -- Agh!   That was-- that was a big one! 
 Just keep breathing, Honey, you're gonna be just fine-- 
 (through the pain) -- the baby, too, right? 
 -- the baby too. 
 -- 
 Captain to shuttle 37 -- is my wife on board? 
 Yessir, she is-- 
 I need you to go now, d'you hear me? 
 We're waiting for you, Sir-- 
 No-- go, take off, immediately. 
 ... yessir! 
 Wait! We can't go, my husband isn't here yet! Please! STOP--! 
 You'll need to push now-- are you ready? 
 The shuttle's leaving-- where are you? 
 My love?   Listen carefully, okay? 
 -- we're about to have this baby -- 
 Sweetheart... I'm not going to be able to be there. 
 -- no-- no, no-- wait-- 
 Okay-- you need to push. 
 Hey!   Hey, so what is it? 
 WINONA'S VOICE -- it's a boy. 
 It's a boy?   Yeah? 
 He's-- he's beautiful, he looks like you. 
 WINONA (CONT'D) George, you should be here -- 
 I know-- so what should we call him, huh? 
 We could name him after your father. 
 Tiberius? Are you kidding me? No, that's the worst-- we'll name him after your dad-- let's call him Jim. 
 ... Jim.   Jim it is. 
 (P.A.) Trespassing vessel: you have entered the jurisdiction of the Klingon Empire. Power down and prepare to be boarded or you will be destroyed. 
 (SUBTITLED, in Romulan) Commander Nero -- we're surrounded. 
 AYEL (CONT'D) (SUBTITLED, in Romulan) Sir-- what are your orders? 
 Your score is one-hundred percent. Congratulations. Spock. 
 I presume you've prepared new insults for today. 
 I have no such information. 
 (swallowing that too) This is your thirty-fifth attempt to elicit an emotional response from me. Logic dictates you would cease by now. 
 AMANDA                                SAREK -- where I'm from, when someone hits you, you hit back- - how is that not logical?         -- Spock had no reasonable -- They pick on him -- they        expectation of being tease him -- every day.            physically injured -- -- Which is precisely when reason must guide his actions -- I want him to embrace           above all. Vulcan, you know that... but he has to be himself-- which means, occasionally, being         -- His "humanity" is very the human.                             source of his ostracism. -- When Vulcans get disgusted with each other, they never just walk away, do they?           -- No. -- Well humans do. 
 I did not mean to create conflict between you and mother. 
 In marriage... conflict is... 
 ... constant? 
 Natural. (a beat) Emotions run deep within our race. In many ways, more deeply than in humans. Long ago, they nearly destroyed us... that is why we followed the teachings of Surak. Now you must choose. 
 ... between you and mother? 
 Never, my son. But you may choose the ethic of logic. Logic offers a serenity humans seldom experience. The control of feelings... so that they do not control you. 
 They called you a traitor. (then) You suggest that I should be completely Vulcan... and yet you married a human... why? 
 As Ambassador to Earth, my duty is to observe and understand human behavior. Marrying your mother... was logical. (Spock seems disquieted) Spock. You are fully capable of choosing your own destiny. The question you are faced with... is which path you will take. This is something only you can decide. 
 Go ahead: go-- run away! You know I could give a damn! 
 -- wait-- no!    Where are you going? 
. Anywhere but here, far as I can get! 
 Which won't be far enough -- know what your problem is?! (big luggie spit) No one ever taught you respect! How to follow orders! Do as you're told! (to Jim) -- what the hell are you doing? 
 I-- I just don't want my brother to go. 
 Well I do-- and I asked you to wash the car! How many damn times do I need to repeat myself?! How many damn times? How many? 
 Please stay-- you can have my Flo-Yo! 
. This isn't about toys, it's Uncle Frank. I can't take him anymore -- Mom has no idea what he's like when she's not here-- d'you hear him talking like he's our dad?! And that's not even his car you're washing! That was Dad's car! You know why you're washing it? Because he's gonna sell it! 
 Don't leave -- okay? We can tell Mom when she gets back from Africa. 
. She's gone for five more months, by then I'll be in a different system. (sees fear in Kirk) You're gonna be okay. You always are. Always doing everything right -- good grades and obeying every stupid order... (then) I can't be a Kirk in this house. Show me how to do that and I'll stay. 
 Son, you pull over that car! 
 I CAN'T HEAR YOU! 
. -- no... way. 
 What's your name, son? 
 My name's Kirk. James Tiberius Kirk. 
 (O.S.) (SUBTITLED) You say they are not yours... 
 (SUBTITLED) I speak the truth. I do. 
 Then who are they for? 
 
 ...!!! 
 
 (SUBTITLED KLINGON) I have come far to meet you. "The One Who Does Not Speak." Ten years is a long time to maintain silence. (beat) Perhaps you simply do not speak Klingon, just as I do not speak Romulan. (MORE) 
) And why attempt to smuggle in maps of Federation space? 
 Spock, come here, let me see you. 
 (O.S.) (beat) No. 
 Spock. 
 AMANDA (CONT'D) There is no need to be so anxious. You'll do fine. 
 I am hardly "anxious", mother. (beat, then, anxiously) And "fine" has variable definitions. "Fine" is unacceptable. 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) May I ask a personal query? 
 ... anything. 
 Should I choose to complete the Vulcan discipline of Kolinahr... and purge all emotion... I trust you will not feel it reflects judgement upon you. 
 As always... whoever you choose to be... you will have a proud mother. 
 You have surpassed the expectations of your instructors. Your final record is flawless. With one exception. I see you have applied to Starfleet as well. 
 It was logical to cultivate multiple options. 
 Logical but unnecessary. You are hereby accepted to the Vulcan Science Academy. A distinction all the more significant given that you will be its first half- human pupil. It is truly remarkable, Spock. That you have achieved so much despite your disadvantage. Welcome to the Academy. 
 If you would clarify, Minister-- what "disadvantage" are you referring to? 
 ... your human mother. 
 Council -- ministers.    I must decline. 
 No Vulcan has ever declined admission to this academy. 
 Then as I am half-human, your record remains untarnished. 
 SAREK                               SPOCK Spock. You have made a commitment to honor the Vulcan       At the moment, Father, I can way--                                think of no greater way to honor our race than to attend Starfleet as its first Vulcan. 
 Why did you come before this council today? Was it to satisfy your emotional need to rebel? 
 I came with the intention of enrolling, as my father wished. However, your "insight" has convinced me otherwise. Therefore, the only emotion I wish to convey is gratitude. Thank you, Ministers, for your consideration. (a contained "fuck you") Live long and prosper. 
 Hi. I'd like a Klabnian Fire Tea, two Cardassian Sunrises and three Earth beers, no slim-shots, anything on draft. 
 (O.S.) That's a lot of drinks for one woman. Wearing those boots. 
 And a shot of Jack, straight up. 
 (to the bartender) Make it two -- her shot's on me. 
 Her shot's on her. Thanks but no thanks. 
 Don't you want my name before you completely reject me? 
 I'm good without it. 
 You are good without it. It's Jim. Jim Kirk. (long beat) If you don't tell me your name, I'm gonna have to make one up. 
 (beat) Uhura. 
 Uhura? No way -- that's the name I was gonna make up for you. Uhura what? 
 Just Uhura. 
 They don't have last names in your world? 
 Uhura is my last name. 
 They don't have first names in your world? Wait, let me guess. Is it "Jim"? 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Okay, so you're a cadet. Studying. What's your focus? 
 Xenolinguistics. Lemme guess: you don't know what that means. 
 Let me guess: study of Alien languages: phonology, morphology, syntax-- it means you've got a talented tongue. 
 And for a moment I thought you were just a dumb hick who only has sex with farm animals. 
 Well.    Not only. 
 You think you're smart. 
 Oh, baby, I'm the smartest. 
 This guy bothering you? 
 Beyond belief, but nothing I can't handle. 
 You could handle me.    That's an invitation. 
 Hey.    You mind your manners. 
 At ease, Cup Cake, it was a joke.     Like your hairline. 
 Hey -- Jim: enough. 
 What was that? 
 You heard me, Moon Beam. 
 You know how to count farm boy?    There's five of us... and one of you. 
 Okay, so go get some more guys, come back and it'll be an even fight. 
 Enough!    STOP! 
 Outside, all of you!       NOW! 
 PIKE (CONT'D) Y'alright, Son? 
 You can... whistle really loud, y'know that? 
 I couldn't believe when the bartender told me who you are. 
 ... and who am I, Captain Pike? 
 Your father's son. (then, smiles) For my dissertation, I was assigned the U.S.S. Kelvin. Something I admired about your dad... he didn't believe in no-win scenarios. 
 He sure learned his lesson. 
 Depends on how you define winning. You're here, aren't you? (off Kirk's look) That instinct to leap without looking-- that was his nature, too. And in my opinion it's something Starfleet has lost. We're admirable, respectable. But overly-disciplined. (beat) Those cadets you took on, they'll make competent officers -- but you can bet your ass they'll run home to momma the minute they're looking down the barrel of a Klingon phaser cannon. 
 -- why are you talking to me? 
 I looked up your file while you were drooling on the floor. Your aptitude tests were off the charts-- what is it, d'you like being the only Genius Level repeat-offender in the midwest? 
 Maybe I love it. 
 So your daddy dies... you can settle for a less-than-ordinary life. (beat) Or do you feel like you're meant for something better? Something special? 
 Come to think of it, I do want to feel special. You know what? I'm gonna go start a book club-- 
 Enlist in Starfleet. 
 Enlist. You must be way down on your recruiting quota for the month-- 
 If you're half the man your father was, Jim, Starfleet could use you. You could be an officer in four years, have your own ship in eight. 
 We're even, right?   I can go. 
 Riverside shipyard. Shuttle for new recruits leaves tomorrow, 0800. (Kirk turns, Pike grabs him) Your father was Captain of a Starship. For twelve minutes. I dare you to do better. 
 Waiting for something, Cap? 
 ... No.   Guess not. 
 PIKE (CONT'D) Hold her a second... 
 Nice ride, man. 
 Live it up. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Four years?   I'm gonna do it in three. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) At ease, Gentlemen. (then, to Uhura) Never did get that first name. 
 (can't help it: a grin) And you never will. 
 MAN'S VOICE Are you people deaf? I told you I don't need a doctor, damnit! I AM A DOCTOR! 
 I might throw up on you. 
 I think these things're pretty safe-- 
 Don't pander to me, kid: one tiny crack in the hull and our blood boils in thirteen seconds -- solar flare might crop up, cook us in our seats -- Hell, some of the damn passengers are blue. And wait'll you're sitting pretty with a case of Andorian shingles, see if you're still so relaxed when your eyeballs are bleeding-- space is disease and danger, wrapped in darkness and silence. 
 I hate to break this to you, but Starfleet operates in space. 
 Yeah, well my ex-wife took the whole damn planet in the divorce, I got nowhere to go but up. Leonard McCoy. 
 Jim Kirk-- you really gonna throw up--? 
 Maybe-- 
 #1 The day you've been waiting for is upon us, Silent One. And look. No sign of salvation. No sign of change. Just more pain. 
 The wait is over. 
 So you'll do it for me, right? 
 I have no interest. 
 I didn't ask if you have interest, I asked if you'd do it. 
 I'm about to ask you an obvious question: why bother? 
 Because I've failed the test twice. 
 And you're determined to make it three. We've all failed it-- everyone has, and that's the point! No one goes back for seconds, let alone thirds -- it's not like you need to pass it to graduate. 
 So Bones: why do they make us take it? 
 I told you to stop calling me that. You're very annoying. 
 And you're the greatest -- thank you. 
 You'd better study for it this time. 
 Oh, no-- Bones -- I gotta date. 
 A date? Listen, as smart as you are, which ain't much, if you don't prepare-- 
 You have no idea how prepared I'm gonna be-- no idea. 
 Seriously, stop calling me Bones! (to himself, hating it) "Bones". 
 -- oh Jim... Jim... Jim, I love you. 
 (kissing her) ... Yeah. I sent you a message. 
 I say "I love you", and you say "I sent you a message?" 
 KIRK                                GAILA -- but you can only open it tomorrow at three o'clock on the dot --                        -- what are you talking about? What is it? What does it say? -- Gaila, promise me you're not going to open it 'till        -- what is it?    Tell me what three --                          it says! 
 GAILA (CONT'D) (sotto) You can't get caught in this dorm-- hide! Under the bed, quick! 
 GAILA (CONT'D) Hey-- I thought you were going to be in the long-range sensor lab all night. 
 I was supposed to be, but it was crazy, I picked up an emergency transmission from a Klingon prison planet -- there was an escape and a ship stolen from th-- (suddenly senses) ... you okay? 
 Yeah, been running simulations all week, just catching up on some rest. Tired. (fake yawn) That's all. 
 Were you running simulations with the mouth-breather hiding under the bed? 
 Your hearing is scary-- you sure both your parents are human? 
 The hell are you doing with him in here? 
 GAILA                              JIM I can't help it! I love him!      Gaila loves me-- 
 UHURA (CONT'D) Get outta here -- it's my ass too if administration catches you in this dorm. 
 (getting dressed, to Uhura) You and I have a big day tomorrow -- 
 (pushing him out) You're gonna fail. 
 If I pass, will you tell me your first name? 
 No.   Good night. 
 (quiet, tries to charm) I think the fact that you picked up a transmission of a Klingon prison escape is very interesting. 
 We have arrived at the coordinates you requested. Stardate confirmed. 2258.5. 
 Standby. 
 Captain... long range scans of Beta Quadrant complete. Romulus is there. She's there. We could go. Right now, go home... 
 Not yet -- not like this. Not how we left. This is our chance... to serve our people. We owe it to them -- to do what no other Romulan could ever do. 
 NERO (CONT'D) Welcome back.    Spock. 
 -- we are receiving a distress signal from the U.S.S. Kobayashi Maru. The ship has lost power and is stranded. Starfleet Command has ordered us to rescue them. 
 "Starfleet Command has ordered us to rescue them... Captain." 
 Klingon vessels have entered the Neutral Zone. And they are firing upon us. 
 That's okay. 
 It's okay? 
 Yeah, don't worry about it. 
 #1 Did he say "don't worry about it"? 
 #2 -- what's he doing? 
 Three more Klingon Warbirds decloaking -- and targeting our ship -- I don't suppose this is a problem either? 
 Nah. 
 They're firing, Captain. 
 Alert medical bay to prepare to receive all crew members from the damaged ship. 
 And how do you expect us to rescue them when we're surrounded by Klingons? 
 Alert medical. 
 Our ship is being hit -- shields at sixty percent. 
 I understand. 
 Should we at least, I dunno, fire back? 
 Mmmm... no. 
 Of course not. 
 #1 -- the hell's happening?! 
 (perplexed, works controls) -- the Kobayashi Maru is still in distress... but... the Klingons have stopped firing. 
 Arm photons. Prepare to fire on the Klingon warbirds. 
 Jim, their shields are up. 
 Are they? 
 ... no. 
 Fire on all enemy ships -- one photon each should do -- let's not waste ammunition. 
 Target lock acquired on all warbirds -- firing! 
 Begin rescue of the stranded crew. So. We've eliminated all enemy ships, no one on board was injured and the successful rescue of the Kobayashi Maru crew is underway. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Anything else? 
 #2 How the hell'd that kid beat your test? 
 ... I do not know. 
 James T. Kirk.     Step forward. 
 (uncomfortable beat) Yessir. I believe I have the right to face my accuser directly. 
 Step forward please. This is Commander Spock, one of our most distinguished graduates. He's programmed the Kobayashi Maru test for the last four years. 
 Cadet Kirk. It is obvious you somehow managed to install and activate a sub- routine in the programming code, thereby changing the conditions of the test. 
 Your point being? 
 In academic vernacular, you cheated. 
 Respectfully.    Define "cheating". 
 To deceive by trickery. 
 Now let me ask you something I think we all know the answer to: the test is rigged, isn't it? You programmed it to be unwinnable. 
 Mr. Kirk, I don't see how the intent of the exam is relevant to these proceedings. 
 Because if I'm right, Sir, then the test itself is a cheat. 
 Your argument precludes the possibility of a no-win scenario -- 
 I don't believe in no-win scenarios -- 
 Then not only have you violated the rules, you've failed to understand the principle lesson. 
 Please, enlighten me. 
 You, of all people should know, Cadet Kirk -- A captain cannot cheat death. 
 "I of all people?" 
 Your father, Lieutenant George Kirk, had assumed command of his vessel before killed in action, did he not? 
 How long did it take you to look that up? 
 How long did it take you to program the virus that allowed you to cheat? 
 Maybe you just don't like that I beat your test. 
 I am Vulcan. "Like" is not a verb in our vernacular. I've simply made the logical deduction that you're a liar. 
 What an idiot I am for taking that personally -- 
 Agreed. Furthermore, you have failed to divine the purpose of the test. 
 Enlighten me again. 
 The purpose is to experience fear. Fear in the face of certain death. To accept that fear and maintain command of one's self and one's crew. This is a quality expected in every Starfleet captain. 
 So you're telling me the point.      Of the whole thing. Is to be afraid? 
 Fear is necessary, yes. 
 Have you taken the test, Commander Spork? 
 Spock. As a Vulcan, I require no additional training to control my narcissism when making command decisions. 
 You keep reminding me that you're Vulcan. And I'm sure you're really proud of that, who wouldn't be-- but isn't it true you people don't experience fear at all? 
 KIRK (CONT'D) And if that's the case -- What's that say about your ability to make command decisions? 
 (to all) We've received a distress call from Vulcan. (Spock reacts concerned) Cadet Kirk -- you are on academic probation pending the result of your hearing. Cadets, report to Shuttle Hangar One immediately -- this hearing is at recess until further notice -- dismissed. 
 Cheating isn't winning. 
 Who was that pointy-eared bastard? 
 I don't know, but I like him. 
 Excuse me, you didn't call my name. Kirk, James T.. 
 (checks his tablet) You're on academic probation. That means you're grounded until the Academy Board rules. 
 ... Jim, the Board'll rule in your favor. Most likely. (Kirk is just rocked) Look, Jim -- I gotta go -- 
 ... yeah-- yeah, you go... I'm good. 
 MCCOY                              KIRK Come with me --                    -- what're you doing --? 
 Commander, a word? 
 Yes, Lieutenant? 
 Was I not one of your top students? 
 Indeed you were -- 
 Did I not receive a Gold rating for Exolinguistic skills, giving Starfleet first place over Kyoto and MIT at the Oxford Invitational? 
 An exceptional achievement, to be su-- 
 -- and did I not, on multiple occasions, demonstrate exceptional aural sensitivity and, I quote, "unparalleled ability to identify sonic anomalies" in subspace transmission tests?! 
 Consistently, yes-- 
 And while you were well aware that my unqualified desire was to serve on the U.S.S. Enterprise, I was assigned to the Farragut. 
 It was an attempt to avoid the appearance of favoritism. 
 No. No. I am assigned to the Enterprise. 
 Oh.     Yes, I believe you are. 
 What are you doing? 
 Doing you a favor. I couldn't just leave you there, looking all pitiful-- roll up your sleeve, I'm gonna give you a vaccine against viral infection from Melvaran mud fleas. 
 KIRK                                MCCOY Ow-- what for?                      To give you symptoms. -- I don't understand--             -- you're gonna start to lose vision in your left eye -- -- yeah, I already have --          -- don't stand up yet -- (he tries to stand; 
) -- what'd you do to me?             -- you're gonna get a really (in pain)                        bad headache. And flopsweat. -- this is a favor?!                -- yeah, you're welcome. 
 "Kirk, James T." -- he's not cleared for duty aboard the Enterprise -- 
 But I am, and Medical Code states the treatment and transport of a patient's to be determined at the discretion of his attending physician, which is me. (re: scanner) You can see he's suffering, he needs me as his doctor, so since I'm assigned to this ship, so's he, or would you like to explain to Captain Pike why the Enterprise warped into a crisis without one of its medical officers? 
 ... as you were. 
 As you were. 
 I might throw up on you. 
 You should look at this. 
 Bones. Thanks for getting me on board. But I don't feel right. I feel like I'm leaking. 
 Oh look, the pointy-eared bastard. 
 Captain, engineering reports "ready for launch". 
 The maiden voyage of our newest flagship deserves more pomp and circumstance than we can afford today, but her christening will have to be our reward for a safe return-- (toggles intercom) All decks, this is Captain Pike. Prepare for immediate departure. Helm, thrusters. 
 Moorings retracted, Captain. Dock Control reports ready -- thrusters fired, separating from space dock -- 
 KIRK                                   MCCOY -- oh, this wasn't worth it -- I wish I didn't know you-- I'm itching in my mouth, this is         Here's a short-lasting horrible--                           sedative -- those symptoms won't last long, don't be an infant. 
 The fleet's cleared space dock, Captain. All ships ready for warp. 
 Set course for Vulcan. 
 Course laid in. 
 Maximum warp.    Punch it. 
 Lieutenant, where's Helmsman McKenna? 
 Uh, he has lungworms, Sir? He'll be fine but couldn't report to his post-- I'm Hikaru Sulu -- 
 (fucking with him) -- and you are a pilot, right? 
 Very much so, Sir-- I'm not sure what's... wrong here... 
 Is the parking brake on? 
 (half-laughs) -- no, I'll figure it out, just-- 
 Have you disengaged the External Inertial Dampener? 
 Ready for warp, Sir. 
 The external inertial dampener. That's... the parking brake. 
 (essentially) ... yessir. 
 (laughs) Let's punch it! 
 Prepare the Red Matter.    Tell me when we reach core depth. 
 Engines at Maximum Warp, Captain. 
 Russian whiz kid-- what's your name again? Chanko? Cherpov? 
 Ensign Chekov, Pavel H., Sir. 
 Fine, Chekov, Pavel H.: begin shipwide mission broadcast. 
 Yessir, happy to. (into console) Ensign authorization code: Nine-Five- Wictor Wictor-Two-- 
 CHEKOV (CONT'D) Aigh, thees is the 23rd Century -- what good is woice recognition that doesn't recognize your woice? (again) Nine-Five-Victor-Victor-Two. 
 Jim, I told you to stay d-- good God! 
 -- what's this?! 
 -- I don't know-- a reaction to the vaccine -- damnit -- 
 -- Bones -- we have to stop the ship-- 
 -- you're not allergic to Cardassian vole dander, are you? 
 --- what? How the hell would I know?     Is Uhura on board? 
 You need an antidote, Jim, or you're gonna die. 
 Jim, I'm not kidding, you gotta keep your heart rate down. 
 Computer, locate crew member Uhura -- 
 I haven't seen a reaction this severe since Med school. 
 Lieutenant Uhura is at signals monitoring station twelve -- deck four. 
 We're flying into a trap. 
 You're delusional, you know that. 
 Come here -- Jim -- don't move -- 
 -- ow!   Stop it! 
 KIRK (CONT'D) The transmission from the Klingon prison planet -- what exactly did you hear? 
 What are you doing here-- what happened to your hands?! 
 Who was it who escaped? What was the ship that was stolen--?! (to McCoy, indiscernible) -- what's happening to my mouth? 
 (working Hypospray) -- you've got Numb Tongue -- 
 (impossible to make out) Numb tongue? 
 That's not good-- I can fix that-- 
 OW, DAMNIT!!!    SONOFABITCH! 
 (SHOUTS against wind) AMANDA! WE MUST GET TO THE SHELTER! 
 Captain Pike-- Sir, we have to stop ship! 
 PIKE                                  MCCOY -- Mr. Kirk! How the hell did you get on board the                 This man is under the Enterprise?!                         influence of a severe reaction to a vaccine. He is delusional and I take full responsibility for -- 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Vulcan isn't experiencing a natural disaster, it's being attacked -- by Romulans. 
 Cadet Kirk, I think you've had enough attention for one day -- Dr. McCoy, return to medical, we'll have words later. 
 Yessir. 
 SPOCK                                 KIRK As you know, Mr. Kirk is not cleared to be aboard this vessel. By Starfleet                  Yeah, I get it, you're a regulations, that makes him a        great arguer, I'd love to do stowaway...                          it again with you, too. 
 Fact: the same anomaly -- a lighting storm in space -- that we saw today also occurred on the day of my birth, before a Romulan ship attacked the U.S.S. Kelvin. (to Pike) You know that, I read your dissertation. Which was good. (MORE) 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Fact: This ship -- which had formidable and advanced weaponry -- was never seen or heard from again -- fact: the Kelvin attack took place on the edge of Klingon space and at 11-hundred hours last night there was an escape from a Klingon prison planet -- Rura Penthe -- fact: the escaped prisoners were Romulans, Sir, and it was reported that they stole a ship from the prison dock. 
 And you know of this prison escape how? 
 Sir, I-- I intercepted and translated the message myself. Kirk's report is accurate. 
 We're warping into a trap-- there are Romulans waiting for us, I promise you that. 
 The cadet's logic is sound. (then) And Lieutenant Uhura is unmatched in xenolinguistics, we would be wise to accept her conclusion. 
 (to Comm Officer) Scan Vulcan space, check if any transmissions are being made in Romulan. 
 Sir, I'm-- not sure I could distinguish the Romulan language from Vulcan. 
 (to Uhura) How about you -- you speak Romulan, Cadet...? 
 Uhura, Sir.   All three dialects. 
 Uhura, relieve the Lieutenant -- Mr. Hannity, hail the U.S.S. Truman. 
 The other ships are out of warp and have arrived at Vulcan, Sir-- but we seem to have lost all contact-- 
 Captain, I pick up no Romulan transmissions -- or transmissions of any kind in the area. There seems to be something jamming all communication around Vulcan. 
 It's because they're being attacked. Captain. Please. 
 (long, tense beat) Shields up. Ready all weapons. 
 Arrival at Vulcan in five seconds! Four... three... two-- 
 Destroy it, too. 
 Captain, they're locking torpedoes! 
 Full reverse, come about Starboard ninety degrees! Drop us down underneath them! Prepare to fire all weapons! 
 -- 
 Shields at thirty-two percent! Their weapons are powerful, Sir, we can't take another hit like that! 
 Get me Starfleet Command! 
 (CONT'D) 
 Captain, the Romulan ship has lowered some kind of high energy pulse device into the Vulcan atmosphere-- its signal appears to be blocking our communications and transporter abilities! 
 All power to forward shields -- prepare to fire all weapons! 
 
!!! 
 NERO (CONT'D) The hull -- magnify -- 
 Divert auxiliary power from port nacelle to the shields--! 
 Captain, we're being hailed! 
 Hello. 
 I am Captain Christopher Pike, to whom am I speaking? 
 I am called Nero. 
 You've declared war against the Federation. Withdraw, and I'll agree to arrange a conference with Romulan leadership at a neutral loca-- 
 I do not speak for the Empire. We stand apart. As does your Vulcan crew member... isn't that right? Spock? 
 (to Nero) Pardon me. But I don't believe you and I are acquainted. 
 ... no, we're not. Not yet. (then) I would like you to see something. Spock. (then) Captain Pike-- your transporter capability is disabled. You will man a shuttle and come aboard the Narada for negotiations. That is all. 
 KIRK                                SPOCK -- he'll kill you, you know that--                               Your survival is unlikely-- -- Captain, we gain nothing by diplomacy-- going over to that       -- I, too, suggest you rethink ship is a mistake.                   this strategy. 
 I understand that -- (loud, to the bridge) I need officers who have been trained in advanced hand-to-hand combat! 
 I have training, Sir! 
 Then come with me -- Kirk, you too-- you're not supposed to be here anyway. (to Chekov) Radio the engine room, have Chief Engineer Olsen meet us at Shuttle Bay Five. 
 Aye, Keptin. 
 Let's go. 
 Without transporters, we can't beam off the ship, can't assist Vulcan, can't do our job. I'm creating an opportunity: Mr. Kirk, Mr. Sulu and Mr. Olson will space-jump from the shuttle. You'll have chutes -- you'll land on that machine they've lowered into the atmosphere that's scrambling our gear-- you'll get inside, disable that thing then beam back to the ship. 
 ... okay. 
 Mr. Spock, I'm leaving you in command of the ship. Once we have transport capability and communications back up, you'll contact Starfleet and report what the hell's happening here. (MORE) 
 PIKE (CONT'D) Something you've got only precious few minutes to figure out. If all else fails, fall back and rendezvous with the fleet in the Laurentian System. (Spock is freaked, then) Kirk. I'm promoting you to First Officer. 
 KIRK                               SPOCK What!?!                           -- Captain? 
 PIKE (CONT'D) While I'm gone we need to keep the chain of command. And you two make a swell team. 
 Captain. Please. I apologize, but the complexities of human pranks escape me. 
 It's not a prank, Spock.   And I'm not the Captain. You are. 
 Once we knock out that machine... Sir, what happens to you? 
 I guess you'll have to come get me. (turns; to Spock) Careful with the ship. She's brand new. 
 PIKE (CONT'D) Suit up, Gentlemen. 
 Dr. Puri, report -- 
 It's McCoy-- Dr. Puri was on Deck 6, he's dead. 
 (beat) Then you have just inherited his responsibility as Chief Medical Officer. 
 Aye, Sir. 
 So what kinda combat training d'you have? 
 (proudly) Fencing. 
 (unimpressed, beat) ... fencing. 
 (V.O.) Pre-jump on one: Three, two, one. 
 PIKE (CONT'D) Good luck. 
 Away team's entering the atmosphere -- 
 
! 
 OLSON, PULL NOW, NOW!!! 
 KIRK (CONT'D) I'M COMING FOR YOU! 
 BEHIND YOU!! 
 I'm Captain Christopher Pi-- 
 PIKE (CONT'D) So much for diplomacy. 
 None of this is familiar-- the interface, the controls-- 
 KIRK                              SULU Step back--                       -- what, you have an idea? -- yeahyeah, I do-- 
 The jamming signal's gone -- communications are re-established -- 
 Transporter control re-engaged -- 
 Chekov, run gravitational sensors -- I want to know what they're doing to the planet. 
 Aye, Commander-- Keptin, sorry.    Keptin. 
 The drill's been sabotaged, Sir. 
 Launch the red matter. Now. 
 Kirk to Enterprise -- they just launched something toward the planet! 
 Keptin: gravitational sensors are off the scale -- if my calculations are correct, that pod they launched is creating a singularity... that will consume the planet. 
 They're creating a black hole... at the center of Vulcan? 
 ... yessir. 
 How long does the planet have? 
 ... minutes, Sir. I'd say minutes. 
 (beat, to Uhura) Alert Vulcan Command Center to signal a planetwide evacuation-- all channels, all frequencies -- maintain standard orbit -- 
 What?   Spock, wait -- 
 UHURA (CONT'D) -- where are you going? 
 To evacuate the Vulcan High Council-- they're tasked with protecting our cultural history. My parents will be among them-- 
 -- you can't beam them out? 
 It's not possible -- they'll be in the Katrik Arc, I must get them myself-- 
 Retract the drill, let's move out! 
 I GOTCHA!   NOW PULL MY CHUTE! 
 KIRK (CONT'D) ENTERPRISE, WE'RE FALLING WITHOUT A CHUTE!!! BEAM US UP!!! BEAM US UP!!! 
 I'm trying!   I can't lock on your signal! 
 (V.O.) -- you're moving too fast! 
 -- no-- I can do that-- I CAN DO THAT!!! 
 The black hole's expanding, we won't reach minimum safe distance if we don't leave immediately! 
 MOVE!   I CAN DO THAT!   I CAN DO THAT!!! 
 I CAN LOCK ON!     GIMME MANUAL CONTROL! 
!!! 
 ENTERPRISE, WHERE ARE YOU?!?! 
 -- holdonholdonholdonholdon! 
 (headset) NOW NOW NOW!!! DO IT NOW!!!!!! 
 Compensating gravitational pull and-- 
! 
 ... thanks. 
 ... yeah, not a problem. 
 Step aside -- I'm going to the surface. 
 The surface of what? YOU'RE GOING DOWN THERE? Are you nuts?! 
 Energize -- 
 Spock--! 
 The planet's not safe, it has only seconds left -- we must evacuate now -- 
 Spock to Enterprise: take us back now! 
 Locking volume, transport in 5-4-3-- 
 It's okay.   To be scared. 
 
!!!! 
 NO!!!   I'M LOSING HER!!! 
 (V.O.) Acting Captain's log. Stardate 2256.42: I have assumed command of the Enterprise. 
 (V.O.) We've heard no word from Captain Pike. I have therefore classified him a hostage of the war criminal known as Nero. 
 Nero, who has destroyed my home planet. And most of its six billion inhabitants. I estimate no more than ten thousand survived. (beat) While the essence of our culture has been saved, in the elders who now reside upon this ship... I am now a member of an endangered species. 
 I'm so sorry. 
 UHURA (CONT'D) What can I do?     Tell me what you need. 
 ... I need... 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) I need for us all to continue performing admirably. 
 Hey. (she turns to him) Listen, about what happened at Starfleet. The test and everything-- I know it looks like I was... using you, or whatever. And I'm sorry. I really am. And... I just hope you'll forgive me. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) ... you're not Gaila, are you? 
 (nods) Sorry. 
 Lieutenant, have you confirmed that Nero is headed for Earth? 
 Their trajectory suggests no other destination, Captain. 
 Earth may be his next stop, but we have to assume every Federation planet's a target. 
 Yes, agreed-- but why didn't they destroy us? 
 Why waste a weapon?      We weren't a threat. 
 That's not it.     He said he wanted me to see something.     The destruction of my home planet. 
 And how the hell did they do that by the way? When did they jump so far ahead in the arms race? 
 The engineering comprehension necessary to artificially create a black hole may suggest the answer: such technology could theoretically be manipulated to create a tunnel through space time. 
 Damnit, man, I'm a doctor, not a physicist -- are you suggesting they're from the future? 
 That is what he's suggesting and I don't buy it. 
 If you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains -- however improbable -- must be the truth. 
 How poetic. 
 Then what would an angry future Romulan want with Captain Pike? 
 As Admiral he knows details of Starfleet's defenses. 
 What we need to do is catch up to that ship. Disable it, take it over and get Pike back. 
 (bitingly) Fantastic, I'm in. 
 Captain Pike left us with standing orders to rendezvous with the fleet on the other side of the quadrant. (MORE) 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) We're technologically outmatched in every way. A rescue attempt would be illogical. 
 "Illogical"-- you're funny. 
 Not to mention we couldn't do it anyway: Nero's ship would have to drop out of warp for us to overtake them -- 
 -- what about assigning Engineering crews to try and boost our warp yield? 
 SPOCK                              KIRK Remaining power and crew are being used to repair radiation leaks on the lower decks and damage to the main deflector shield-- without which we cannot communicate with          -- okay--okay, okayokayokay-- Starfleet.                       there's gotta be SOME WAY! 
 We must gather with the rest of Starfleet to balance the terms of our next engagement -- 
 There won't be a next engagement, Spock: by the time we've "gathered", it'll be too late -- how many planets are you willing to risk? You say he's from the future? Knows what's gonna happen? Then the logical thing is to be unpredictable. 
 You're assuming Nero knows how events are predicted to unfold. The contrary: Nero's very presence has altered the flow of history, beginning with the attack on the U.S.S. Kelvin, culminating in the events of today -- thereby creating a new chain of incidents that cannot be anticipated by either party. 
 Does anyone understand him? 
 (stunned) ... an alternate reality. 
 Precisely. Whatever lives we might have lived, if the time continuum was disrupted... our destinies have changed. (then:) Mr. Sulu, plot a course for the Laurentian system, Warp Factor Three-- 
 KIRK                               SPOCK -- wait-- don't do that -- Spock -- running back to the rest of the fleet for a confab is a massive waste of time--        -- These were the orders -- He also ordered us to go         Captain Pike issued when he back and get him! Spock,            left ship-- you're Captain now--!               -- I am aware of my -- Every second we waste,           responsibilities, Mr. Kirk! Nero's getting closer to his next target--!                      -- that is correct -- and why I'm instructing you to accept -- I will not allow us to go        that I alone am in command. backwards, away from the problem, instead of hunting         -- then I must remove you from Nero down!                          this ship. If I confine you to the brig, you'll likely escape. Mr. Chekov: have transportation prepare a deployment capsule. Mr. Sulu, escort him out. 
 I'm sorry. 
 Yeah, don't worry ab -- 
 You are only the second human I have ever met, face to face. You must have so many questions for me. (MORE) 
 NERO (CONT'D) (then) I only have one for you. I need the subspace frequencies of Starfleet's border detection grids. Specifically those surrounding Earth. 
 Christopher Pike -- Captain, U.S.S. Enterprise, registry NCC-1701. 
 Christopher. (beat; hardcore) Answer my question. 
 No. You answer for the genocide you just committed on a peaceful planet-- 
 I prevented genocide. (beat, calms) Where I come from, Christopher... this ship is just a mining vessel. I chose a life of honest labor to provide for myself... and the wife who was carrying my child. (beat) I sit here now... knowing you as enemies. Not just of today. But of tomorrow. I watched as your Federation did nothing. They let us burn to death... as our planet broke in half. 
 Then Nero, you're confused. Romulus has not been destroyed. How can you blame the Federation for something that hasn't happened--? 
 It did happen. I remember it. I... felt it. (then; pained) When I lost her... I promised myself I would not speak another word until the day of my retribution. In twenty five years I forgot the sound of my own voice... but I didn't forget the pain. That feeling cannot be erased. (MORE) 
 NERO (CONT'D) (turning to anger now) A feeling that every surviving Vulcan now shares. 
 If what you say is true... you can save Romulus. You have a second chance to -- 
 -- yes, which is a gift I won't waste on mercy. (beat) My purpose, Christopher, is not simply to avoid the destruction of the home I love... (beat) ... but to create a Romulus which exists, free of the Federation. Only then will she be saved. 
 Then we have nothing more to discuss. 
 It's not the fault of the human race that Starfleet chose Earth as its center. You're a more noble race than my fallen cousins. I'll take no pleasure in your extinction. 
 How reassuring. 
 The frequencies, please. 
 Christopher Pike -- Captain, U.S.S. Enterprise, registry NCC-1701. 
 As you wish. 
 Computer...    where am I? 
 Current location Delta Vega: Class "M" Planet, unsafe. You have been ordered to remain in your pod until retrieved by Starfleet authorities. 
 Bite me, how's that. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) SONOFABITCH-BITCH-BITCH! THERE'S NOTHING HERE!!! YOU NECK-PINCHING MOTHERF--!!! 
 Lieutenant's log, supplemental: I'm preparing a testimonial for my Starfleet court martial assuming there's still a Starfleet left. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Acting Captain Spock -- whose only form of expression's apparently limited to his left damn eyebrow -- has marooned me on Delta Vega in what I believe to be a violation of security protocol 49.09, governing the treatment of prisoners aboard a st-- 
 The Hen-Gra.   Notoriously afraid of heat. 
 Hey... thank you... 
 ... Jim? 
 (stunned) -- how d'you know my name? 
 How did you find me--? Does Starfleet know of my presence? 
 HOW DO YOU KNOW MY NAME? 
 I have been... and always shall be... your friend. 
 -- no, I don't know you -- the only Vulcan I know isn't exactly a buddy. 
 You are James T. Kirk. Your father is George, as is your brother. Your mother's name is Winona -- you were born in 2233 -- 
 Stop.   Please.     I don't understand. 
 ... I am Spock. One hundred and thirty years senior to the Vulcan you know. 
 (beat, beat, beat) Bullshit. 
 It's remarkably pleasing to see you again. (re: Vulcan) ... especially after the events of today. 
 Old friend. Sir, I don't have any idea how you know what you know. But I don't know you and if you are Spock we're not friends. You hate me. You marooned me here for mutiny... 
 Mutiny?   You are not the Captain? 
 You're the captain.   Pike was taken hostage. 
 (realizing, grave) ... by Nero. 
 What do you know about him? 
 (guilty, burdened) ... he is a remarkably... (MORE) 
 What're you doing--? 
 (whispering; a mantra) Our minds... one and together...One hundred and twenty-seven years from now everything ends. 
: 
 (V.O.) A star in Beta Quadrant will go supernova -- and like a cancer left untreated... it will grow... and destroy everything. 
 (V.O.) I saw the beginning of it myself. Vulcan Science Academy devised a plan to stop it. 
 (V.O.) We built a ship containing a material capable of generating the only thing powerful enough to consume a supernova. A black hole. 
 (V.O.) I agreed to pilot the ship. Knowing I would not return. 
 (V.O.) My sacrifice, in service of all races, seemed only logical. 
 Nero's planet was destroyed-- 
 Yes. He of course blamed us. Believed Vulcan allowed his planet to die. Which was hardly the case. Let me continue. 
 (V.O.) Nero came after me. Determined to thwart my mission. If Romulus was allowed to die, he said... all planets should share its fate. 
 (V.O.) I needed an exit. I knew if this mission failed... everyone, everywhere... would lose everything. 
 (V.O.) I realized: a large black hole could destroy the supernova. A smaller one... could be my escape. Could send me back in time, allowing me to complete my mission. So I created a black hole... 
 (V.O.) Nero must have understood what I was trying to do. Because he began racing for it. 
 (V.O.) Nero simply got to it first. How long I was travelling... I couldn't tell you. It was timeless. But when I arrived... 
 (V.O.) Nero was waiting for me. 
 Forgive me... emotional transference is an effect of the mind meld. 
 (sympathy, surprise) ... so you do feel... 
 "Cthia" is the stricture that binds our emotions... but few of us are that perfectly Vulcan. 
 Going back in time... you changed all our lives. 
 Yet remarkably, events within our timelines, characteristics, people... seem to overlap significantly. Tell me about the rest of the crew? Chekov-- Uhura --? 
 Tactical and Communications -- 
 -- Sulu -- 
 -- he's the helmsman, why? 
 Dr. McCoy would assert our meeting here is not a matter of coincidence... but rather, indication of a higher purpose. 
 ... he'd call it a damn miracle. 
 Yes he would. Perhaps the time stream's way of attempting to mend itself. In both our histories, the same crew found its way onto the same ship in a time of ultimate crisis -- therein lies our advantage. (rises) We must go-- there's a Starfleet outpost not far from here. 
 Where you came from... did I know my father? 
 ... yes. You often spoke of him as your inspiration for joining starfleet. 
 ... Captain? 
 A ship we must return you to as soon as possible. 
 Warp three. Course one-five-one mark three, the Laurentian System. 
 You wanted to see me? 
 (discreet tone) Yes, Doctor. I'm aware that James Kirk is a friend of yours. Supporting me, as you did, must have been difficult. 
 ... are you thanking me? 
 I'm simply acknowledging your difficulties. 
 Permission to speak freely, Sir. 
 I welcome it. 
 Do you. Okay then: are you out of your Vulcan mind? Were you doing the logical thing? Maybe. The right one? Debatable. But one thing's for damn sure -- that kid doesn't know how to lose. Just isn't in his DNA. Back home we have a saying: "If you're gonna ride in the Kentucky Derby, don't leave your prize stallion in the stable." 
 ... a curious metaphor, Doctor. As a stallion must first be broken before it can reach its potential. 
 My God, Man... you could at least act like it was a hard decision. 
 I intended to assist in the effort to re- establish communication with Starfleet. However, if crew morale would be better served by my roaming the halls weeping, I'll gladly defer to your medical expertise. 
 I AM SO PISSED OFF AT THE OTHER YOU RIGHT NOW! 
 ... hello?! 
. 
 ... can I help you? 
 Are you the station chief? 
 ... no.   This way. 
 Hm. 
 Visitors. 
 You realize how unacceptable this is. 
 Excuse me? 
 (re: the Officer) ... Fascinating. 
 What? 
 I'm sure it's no' your fault, and I know youse lads are just doing your jobs, but could you no' have come a wee bit sooner?! (MORE) 
 You're Montgomery Scott. 
 You know him? 
 Yes, that's me -- Scotty-- you're in the right place-- are there any other hard- working and equally-starving Starfleet officers around? 
 Me. 
 You eat nothing. A bean and you're done for a week, I need food. And now you're here -- so. Thank you. Where is it. 
 You are in fact the Mr. Scott who postulated the theory of trans-warp beaming. 
 Yes! That's exactly what I'm talking about! How d'ya think I ended up here? I got into a debate with my instructor on the issue of Relativistic Physics as they pertain to subspace travel... He seemed to think that the range of transporting say, a roast turkey, was limited to a few hundred miles -- so I told my instructor I could not only beam a bird from one planet to an adjacent planet in the same system -- which is no big deal anyway -- but if I were so inclined I could actually do it with a lifeform! So I tested it on Admiral Archer's prize beagle. Which... was a mistake. 
 I know that dog. What happened to it? 
 I'll tell ya when it reappears.     Dunno. Feel guilty. 
 What if I told you your trans-warp theory was correct? That it is indeed possible to beam onto a ship that is travelling at warp speed. And that you only required the correct field equation to recrystallize dilithium? 
 I haven't been stationed here that long. If such an equation had been discovered, I'da heard. 
 The reason you haven't heard of it, Mr. Scott... is because you haven't discovered it yet. 
 Y'from the future, are ya? Brilliant. D'they still have sandwiches where you're from? Piece and jam? Mince 'n tatties? Cockaleekie soup? 
 What is he talking about? 
 Food. 
 Allow us access to your shuttle... and I will show you what a genius you actually are. 
 She's a wee bit dodgy: shield emitters are totally banjaxed, along wi' a few other things. 
 SCOTTY (CONT'D) ... rapid.   That's impressive. 
 Your equation for achieving trans-warp beaming. 
 Imagine that! Never occurred to me to think of space as the part that's moving. 
 Point of fact: it did occur to you. (he works the console) Extrapolating Enterprise's course -- 
 -- Enterprise? Had its maiden voyage already, has it? Well, you must've done something right to be assigned to that ship, Kiddo. She's a well endowed lady -- love to get my hands on her ample nacelles, if you'll pardon the engineering parlance. 
 Now's your chance, Mr. Scott. 
 Look, even if I believed you -- where you're from, what I've done-- which I don't -- we're still talkin' bout slingshotting aboard while she's going faster than light. Without a proper receiving pad, that's like tryin'a hit a bullet with a smaller bullet, wearing a blindfold. On a horse. 
 I calculate no more than a four meter margin of error. 
 That's all well and good unless you rematerialize four meters outside the ship. 
 Agreed: the aft engineering bay is your best option: a large space and no unpredictable airlocks -- 
 -- you're coming with us, right? 
 No, Jim. My destiny lies along a different path. 
 You're telling me I can't tell you I'm following your own orders? Why not? What happens? 
 Trust me. Above all. Jim, this is the one rule you cannot break. To stop Nero, you alone must take command of your ship. 
 How, over your dead body? 
 Preferably not. There is, however, Starfleet Regulation 619. (off Kirk's confusion) Yes. I forget what little regard you had for such things. 619 states that any commanding officer who is emotionally compromised by the mission at hand... must resign said command. 
 So I need to emotionally compromise you? 
 Jim.  I just lost my planet. I can tell you.  I am emotionally compromised. (then) What you must do... is get me to show it. 
 Hm. 
 Aye, then. Live or die, Laddie, let's get this over with. he Enterprise has a decent cafeteria I'm guessing. 
 You know... coming back in time... changing history... that's cheating. 
 A trick I learned from an old friend. 
 -- no-- shit! 
 KIRK (CONT'D) -- no--nonono-- 
 KIRK (CONT'D) COMEONCOMEONCOMEON -- like the simulator: manual control enabled, pressure seal: enabled -- shutdown-- 
 Turbine Shutdown Not Allowed. 
 
! 
 Keptin, we're detecting unauthorized access to a water turbine control board! 
 Bring up video. 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) Security, this is the captain -- seal engineering deck and bring me the intruders in turbine station three -- set phasers to stun. 
 You all right? 
 (recovering, looking around) -- nice -- (cough) -- ship. Really. 
 -- let's get to the bridge-- 
 #1 Come with me.     Moon Beam. 
 Surprise. 
 (to Scotty) Who are you? 
 He's with me. 
 We're travelling at warp -- how did you manage to get aboard this ship? 
 You're the genius, you figure it out. 
 As Captain of this vessel I order you to answer the question. 
 Well I'm not telling. (then) Captain. 
 KIRK (CONT'D) Does that frustrate you? My lack of cooperation... does it make you angry? 
 You are not a member of this ship's crew. Under penalty of court martial, I order you to explain to me how you beamed ab -- 
 (to Scotty) -- Don't answer him. 
 You will answer me. 
 I'd rather not take sides. 
 Escort them to the Brig. 
 What is it about you, Spock? Your planet was just destroyed -- your mother murdered -- and you're not even upset? 
 Your presumption that these experiences interfere with my abilities to command this ship is inaccurate-- 
 HA! And yet you said fear was necessary for command. I mean -- did you see that bastard's ship? Did you see what he did? 
 (tense) Yes, of course I-- 
 So are you afraid or aren't you?!? 
 (tenser) I will not... allow you to lecture me about the merits of emotion. 
 Then why don't you stop me. 
 Step away from me, Mr. Kirk. 
 What is it like? Not to feel? Anger. Or heartbreak. Or the need to stop at nothing to avenge the death of the woman who gave birth to you?! 
 (volcanic) -- back away -- 
 (closer still) You must not feel anything! It must not even compute for you! You must not have loved her at all--! 
 Spock! 
 Doctor. I am no longer fit for duty. I hereby relinquish my command on the grounds that I have been... emotionally compromised. Please note the time and date in the ship's log. 
 I like this ship. It's exciting. 
 Congratulations, Jim. Now we've got no Captain and no first officer to goddamn replace him. 
 Yeah we do. 
 WHAT?! 
 Thanks for the support! 
 I sure hope you know what you're doing. 
 ... so do I. (studies chair, sits, into mic) Attention crew of the Enterprise.   This is James Kirk... 
 (V.O.) Mr. Spock has resigned commission and advanced me to acting Captain. I know you were all expecting to regroup with the fleet, but I've ordered a pursuit course of the enemy ship to Earth. 
 I want all departments at battle stations and ready in ten minutes. Either we're going down, or they are. Kirk out. 
 I want some answers. 
 UHURA (CONT'D) Right now. Where the hell'd you get trans-warp technology? 
 -- yeah, you know that's complicated -- 
 Do I look simple to you?! 
 I'm a PhD in astrophysics, I think I can handle it -- how'd you get back? 
 You vant us to trust you but you von't tell us the truth? 
 No. No, I won't-- hey, I'm the Captain now! I don't have to tell you anything! Now listen: we need to figure out a way to catch up and get to Nero's ship. 
 There's not a chance. They're gonna be in geosynchronous orbit around Earth in ten minutes. We'll never make it. 
 Even if we could, you can't go in guns blazing, not with their technology, that's suicide. 
 Then we find a way to get on that ship and steal the black hole device away from them. 
 Well you can forget transwarp. No way to predict the Narada's position from here. 
 Uhura: anything from Captain Pike? 
 No... I've been monitoring all channels. 
 You must not punish yourself. (beat) Speak your mind, Spock. 
 That would be unwise. 
 What is necessary is always wise. 
 I feel as conflicted as I once was. As a child. Have I made so little progress? 
 (beat, softly) You will always be a child of two worlds. I am grateful for that. And for you. (painfully) And not only because you are all I have left of her. 
 I feel anger. For the one who took her life. An anger I cannot stop. 
 I believe she would say... do not try to. (then) You asked me once. Why I married your mother. (beat, simply) I married her because I loved her. 
 Keptin Kirk?    Excuse me, plees, could I...? 
 Yes, Chekov-- you don't need to ask permission to-- 
 Based on the Narada's course from Vulcan, I've projected that Nero will travel past Saturn. If we could drop out of warp behind one of Saturn's moons, say, Titan, the magnetic distortion from the planet's rings will make us invisible to Nero's sensors. We could follow him to Earth by staying in his blind spot. 
 What blind spot? 
 Its exhaust wake. If we adjust our shield frequencies, they shouldn't detect us. 
 Wait a minute-- anyone understand this kid? How old are you? 
 I am seventeen, Sir, how old are you? 
 We're all old enough to shave here. 
 (O.S.) Doctor... Mr. Chekov is correct. 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) I have reviewed his telemetry. If Mr. Sulu can maneuver us into position, I can beam aboard Nero's ship. 
 I won't order you to do that, Mr. Spock. 
 Romulans and Vulcans share a common ancestry. Our cultural similarities will make it easier for me to access their ship's computer to locate the device. (beat; a flicker of emotion) (MORE) 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) Also, my mother was human. Which makes Earth the only home I have left. 
 Then I'm coming with you. 
 (beat, considering) I would cite regulation, but I know you will simply ignore it. 
 See, we're getting to know each other. 
 The men and I have discussed this. What we are about to do. (beat) We have to turn the ship around. We can save our home. 
 AYEL (CONT'D) Stop. 
 AYEL (CONT'D) We can go back. That's what we want. We have taken our vengeance on Vulcan. No more. We want to go home now. 
 There is no need, Ayel.   To threaten me. (beat) I understand. 
 NERO (CONT'D) I understand.    But you are wrong. 
 NERO (CONT'D) We will return to Romulus when the Federation lies in ruins and not a moment before. When those who watched our people burn at last understand our pain, our loss. I refuse to return as a slave! We will return as conquerors! 
 NERO (CONT'D) Deploy the drill. 
 Mr. Chekov, transfer manual control to the Captain's chair. 
 Aye. (works controls) I've projected the parabolic course you must follow. If you deviate by so much as a meter, we will be detected. 
 Give me one quarter impulse burst for five seconds and I'll do the rest with thrusters. On my mark. Three... two... one... fire. 
 All stop in three... two... one... 
 (scanning) No sign they've detected us -- 
 (on Communicator) Well done, Mr. Sulu. 
 Whatever happens Mr. Sulu, if you feel you have a tactical advantage fire on that ship. Even if we're still aboard. It's an order. 
 Yessir.   Good luck. 
 We'll be monitoring your frequency... 
 Thank you, Nyota. 
 Her first name is... 
 I have no comment on the matter. 
 If there's any common sense to their ship design, I'll be puttin' ya in a cargo bay, shouldn't be a soul in sight. 
 Energize. 
 (a touch insecure) Mine had a gun. 
 I am trained in the Vulcan martial art of Suus Mahna. 
 SPOCK (CONT'D) I am unable to meld with these Romulans -- there are subtle differences in their physiology I did not anticipate -- 
 KIRK                                SPOCK -- punch him in the face -- make him talk! Suus Mahna his       -- Suss Mahna is only intended ass!                                for self-defense, he's no longer a threat -- -- then pretend it's a threat - - I'm your captain, that's an order! 
! 
 The plasma drill is repaired and fully deployed. 
 Good.   Let's begin. 
 They've activated the drill -- 
 Communications and transporter inoperative -- 
 They're on their own now. 
 What you refer to as the "Red Matter Device" is in the main hangar -- and I've located Captain Pike. 
 Is he alive? 
 Unknown. 
 Let's move. 
 Voice print and face recognition analysis enabled. 
 Spock, you'll be piloting the ship alone. 
 Which may be problematic, as I am unfamiliar with this ship's design. 
 Welcome back, Ambassador Spock. 
 (awkwardly) Wow.   That's weird. 
 Computer: what is your manufacturing origin? 
 Stardate 2397, commissioned by the Vulcan Science Academy. 
 It appears you've been keeping rather important information from me. 
 Just trust me.      Can ya do that? 
 KIRK (CONT'D) I'll get Pike. 
 Primary core rupture, warp engines off- line! 
 HOW?!! 
 Restore power!     Engage auxiliary systems! 
 Ambassador Spock's ship has been stolen as is heading out of the solar system! 
 -- WHO'S RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS?! 
 (darkly) ... Spock. 
 (to comms officer) Open a channel -- 
 Spock -- I should've killed you when I had the chance. 
 Under authority granted me by the Europa convention, I'm confiscating this illegally obtained ship and order you to surrender your vessel. No terms. No deals. 
 You can't cheat me again, Spock. I know you better than you know yourself. 
 Last warning: unconditional surrender or you will be destroyed. 
 (to his Men) Fire at will. 
 Sir-- if you ignite the red matter, the-- 
 I want Spock dead!    Fire! 
 ... Kirk? 
 Came back, Sir. Just like you ordered. 
 Warning: Shields off-line. 
 Computer, prepare self destruct sequence. 
 -- 
 FULL REVERSE!!! NOW, NOW!! 
 (to Transporter Chief) Nice timing, Lieutenant -- 
 Never beamed two targets from two places onto the same pad before! That was pretty good! 
 -- we're gonna need gastric stimulators, let's prep him for surgery, now! 
 LOAD WEAPONS AND RAISE SHIELDS!!! 
 ENGINES USING ALL OUR POWER, SIR! 
 Keptin! The enemy ship is losing power-- its shields are down! 
 Hail them -- now! 
 KIRK (CONT'D) This is Captain James T. Kirk of the U.S.S. Enterprise -- your ship is compromised -- too close to the singularity to survive without assistance -- which we are willing to provide. 
 (sotto) Captain -- what are you doing? 
 (sotto) We show them compassion-- it may be the only way to earn peace with Romulus. It's logic, Spock! I thought you'd like that. 
 No, not really, not this time. 
 I would rather suffer the death of Romulus a thousand times than accept assistance from you. 
 You got it. (turns) Lock phasers! Fire everything we've got! 
 Kirk to Engineering: get us out of here, Scotty! 
 SCOTTY (V.O.; COMMS) -- you bet yer ass, Captain -- 
 Forgive me... Romulus... 
 WHY AREN'T WE AT WARP?! 
 -- WE ARE --! 
 GO TO MAXIMUM WARP!       PUSH IT!!! 
 I'M GIVIN' HER ALL SHE'S GOT, CAPTAIN! 
 ALL SHE'S GOT ISN'T GOOD ENOUGH!       WHAT ELSE D'YOU GOT?! 
 (last desperate thought) IF WE EJECT THE CORE AND DETONATE, THE BLAST COULD BE STRONG ENOUGH TO PUSH US AWAY BUT I CAN'T PROMISE ANYTHING! 
 DO IT DO IT DO IT! 
 Father...? 
 I am not... our father. 
 ... Fascinating. 
 There are so few Vulcans left.    We cannot afford to ignore each other. 
 Then why did you send Kirk aboard when you alone could've explained the truth? 
 (beat, simply) Because you needed each other. Opposing yet complimentary opposites. It was that balance between us -- I should say you and Kirk -- that often made the impossible, possible. 
 ... it was a test? 
 (no: his heart heavy) I'm in no position to pass judgment... my actions have robbed you of much. I could not also deprive you the revelation of all you can accomplish together... of a friendship that will define you both in ways you cannot yet realize. 
 How did you persuade him to keep your secret? 
 I inferred universe-ending paradoxes would ensue should he break his promise. 
 You lied. 
 I implied. 
 A gamble... 
 An act of faith. One I hope you'll repeat in the future. 
 The future's not what it used to be... in the face of extinction, it's only logical I resign my Starfleet commission and help rebuild our race. 
 And yet, you are in a unique position... you can be in two places at once. (MORE) 
 My future cannot be determined by your past. We are one, but not the same. 
 Then I ask that you do yourself a favor. Put away logic. Do what feels right. The world you've inherited lives in the shadow of incalculable devastation... but there's no reason you must face it alone. 
 This assembly calls Captain James Tiberius Kirk... 
 I relieve you, Sir. 
 I am relieved. Congratulations, Captain. 
 Thank you, Sir. 
 Maneuvering thrusters and impulse engines at your command, Sir. 
 Weapons systems and shields on standby. 
 Dock control reports ready.    Yard Command signalling clear. 
 Scotty how are we? 
 (wry grin) Same ship, different day. 
 Mr. Sulu, prepare to engage thrus-- 
 Permission to come aboard, Captain. 
 ... Permission granted. 
 As you have yet to select a first officer, respectfully, I would like to submit my candidacy. Should you desire, I can provide character references. 
 It would be my honor, Commander. Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu.     Take us out. 
 Aye, Captain. 
 SPOCK/NIMOY Space... the final frontier. These are the continuing voyages of the Starship Enterprise. Her ongoing mission... to explore strange new worlds... to seek out new life forms, and new civilizations... To boldly go, where no one has gone... before... 
 ... oh my God... (to himself, boggled) A lightning storm... then this... (to deck) Signal all departments: first contact protocols. Looks like we have someone new on the block. All Stop. 
 Sir, should we initiate an active scan? 
 That could be seen as an act of provocation -- all readings passive-- 
 Redirecting auxiliary power to forward shields!" 
 Damage report! 
 Our shields did nothing, Sir! Never seen anything like it! Weapons off-line! Main power at 38 percent! 
 Then I ask that you do yourself a favor... put away logic, and do what feels right. The world you've inherited lives in the shadow of incalculable devastation... but there's no reason you must face it alone. 
 KIRK/ SHATNER Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you... (stops, grins) I know I know, it's illogical to celebrate something you had nothing to do with, but I haven't had the chance to congratulate you on your appointment to the ambassadorship so I thought I'd seize the occasion... Bravo, Spock -- they tell me your first mission may take you away for awhile, so I'll be the first to wish you luck... and to say... (beat, emotional) I miss you, old friend. 
 KIRK/SHATNER (V.O.) I suppose I'd always imagined us... outgrowing Starfleet together. Watching life swing us into our Emeritus years... 
 KIRK/SHATNER (V.O.) I look around at the new cadets now and can't help thinking... has it really been so long? Wasn't it only yesterday we stepped onto the Enterprise as boys? That I had to prove to the crew I deserved command... and their respect? 
 This assembly calls Captain James Tiberius Kirk... 
 COMMANDANT (CONT'D) Your inspirational valor and supreme dedication to your comrades are in keeping with the highest traditions of service and reflect utmost credit to yourself, your crew, and the Federation. By Starfleet Order 28455, you are hereby directed to report to Commanding Officer, USS Enterprise, for duty as his relief. 
 I relieve you, Sir. 
 ... I am relieved. 
 PIKE (CONT'D) And as Fleet Admiral, for your... unique solution to the Kobayashi Maru, it's my honor to award you with a commendation for original thinking. 
 PIKE (CONT'D) (a touch choked) Congratulations, Captain. 
 Thank you, Sir. 
 ... Same ship, different day. 
 KIRK/SHATNER (V.O.) I know what you'd say -- `It's their turn now, Jim...' And of course you're right... but it got me thinking: 
 KIRK/SHATNER Who's to say we can't go one more round? By the last tally, only twenty five percent of the galaxy's been chartered... I'd call that negligent. Criminal even -- an invitation. (MORE) 
 Admit it, Spock. For people like us, the journey itself... is home. 
 A: 
 Heard that guy passed second-year exams in his first term. 
 CADET (CONT'D) Ruining the curve for everyone. 
 CADET (CONT'D) I'd like to load her photon tubes. 
 CADET (CONT'D) Can't believe I failed the navigational comp. 
 CADET (CONT'D) The Newton's not an antique, it's a classic. Give me the Newton over the Enterprise any day. 
 CADET (CONT'D) Did you see the new assignment roster? 
 CADET (CONT'D) I flunked the sub-atomic particles quiz. 
 CADET (CONT'D) They better give me a red shirt for this. 
 CADET (CONT'D) Do we have time to get married? 
 CADET (CONT'D) (on one knee) I know this is sudden, but... will you marry me? 
 CADET (CONT'D) I'm calling my Mom... 
 CADET (CONT'D) Can't believe I'm on the Mayflower... 
: 
 Secure the transport deck. 
 Anterior hull breach, deck level seven. 
 Long live the Romulan Star Empire. 
 Captain we have a new contact. 
 Sir, we have a hull breach in the aft section. 
: 
 Where is planetary security? 
 An end is just a beginning. 
: 
 All com channels open. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) We have clearance from Starfleet. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Proceeding as directed. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Transporter deck is operational. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Shields at one-hundred percent and stable. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Engineering reports warp core is stable. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Warp propulsion system is at maximum efficiency. 
 Monitor all channels. 
 OFFICER (CONT'D) Bring up schematics for the Defiant, Newton, Armstrong, and Mayflower. 
 OFFICER (CONT'D) Set a course for Rigel 3 and transmit to the other ships. 
 Warp drive is off line, we are on impulse only, repeat, impulse only. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Sir, we've been detected -- Romulan vessel is turning about. 
 Rerouting power to port shields. 
 Hull breach on deck 38, atmospheric stabilization has been lost. 
 ENSIGN (CONT'D) Life support is fluctuating. 
: 
 Class four casualties here, class three in the next door. 
 Dose him alpha waves and resume compressions. 
 DOCTOR (CONT'D) Cortical stimulation's failing -- 
 This should numb the pain. 
 NURSE (CONT'D) 
