 I was sheriff of this county when I was twenty-five. Hard to believe. Grandfather was a lawman. Father too. Me and him was sheriff at the same time, him in Plano and me here. I think he was pretty proud of that. I know I was. 
 Some of the old-time sheriffs never even wore a gun. A lot of folks find that hard to believe. Jim Scarborough never carried one. That's the younger Jim. Gaston Boykins wouldn't wear one. Up in Comanche County. 
 I always liked to hear about the old- timers. Never missed a chance to do so. Nigger Hoskins over in Bastrop County knowed everbody's phone number off by heart. You can't help but compare yourself against the old- timers. Can't help but wonder how they would've operated these times. There was this boy I sent to the gas chamber at Huntsville here a while back. My arrest and my testimony. He killed a fourteen-year-old girl. Papers said it was a crime of passion but he told me there wasn't any passion to it. 
 Told me that he'd been planning to kill somebody for about as long as he could remember. Said that if they turned him out he'd do it again. 
 Said he knew he was going to hell. Be there in about fifteen minutes. I don't know what to make of that. I surely don't. 
 The crime you see now, it's hard to even take its measure. It's not that I'm afraid of it. 
 I always knew you had to be willing to die to even do this job -- not to be glorious. But I don't want to push my chips forward and go out and meet something I don't understand. 
 You can say it's my job to fight it but I don't know what it is anymore. 
 ...More than that, I don't want to know. A man would have to put his soul at hazard. The deputy slams the door. 
 ...He would have to say, okay, I'll be part of this world. 
 Yessir, just walked in the door. Sheriff he had some sort of a thing on him like one of them oxygen tanks for emphysema or somethin'. And a hose from it run down his sleeve... 
 ...Well you got me, sir. You can see it when you get in... The prisoner approaches. As he nears the deputy's back he grows sharper but begins to crop out of the top of the frame. 
 ...Yessir I got it covered. As the deputy reaches forward to hang up, the prisoner is raising his hands out of frame just behind him. The manacled hands drop back into frame in front of the deputy's throat and jerk back and up. 
 What's this about? 
 Step out of the car please, sir. The motorist squints at the man with the strange apparatus. 
 Huh? What is... 
 I need you to step out of the car, sir. The man opens his door and emerges. 
 Am I... Chigurh reaches up to the man's forehead with the end of the tube connected to the air tank. 
 Would you hold still please, sir. A hard pneumatic sound. The man flops back against the car. Blood trickles from a hole in the middle of his forehead. 
: 
 Hold still. He opens the free eye and rolls his head off the sight to give himself stereo. 
 Shit. He stands and jacks out the spent casing which jangles against the rocks. He stoops for it and puts it in his shirt pocket. 
 Agua. Moss stares at him 
 ...Agua. Por Dios. 
 Ain't got no water. On the seat next to the man is an HK machine pistol. Moss looks at it. He looks back at the man. The man is still staring at him. Without lowering his eyes Moss reaches in and takes the pistol. Moss straightens up out of the truck and slings the rifle back over his shoulder. He snaps the clip off the machine pistol, checks it and snaps it back on. Moss crosses to the back of the truck and lifts the tarp that covers the truck bed. A load of brick-sized brown parcels each wrapped in plastic. He throws the tarp back over the load and crosses back to the open cab door. 
 Agua. 
 I told you I ain't got no agua. You speak English? A blank look. 
 ...Where's the last guy? 
 Ultimo hombre. Last man standing, must've been one. Where'd he go? 
 ...Agua. Moss turns to scan the horizon. He looks at the tire tracks extending back from the truck. He thinks for a beat. 
 
 La puerta... Hay lobos... 
 
 If you stopped... to watch your backtrack... you're gonna shoot my dumb ass. He doesn't see anything. He lowers the glass, thinking. He raises the glass again. 
 ...But. If you stopped... you stopped in shade. He sets off. 
 Moss's pickup is parked by a cattleguard off a paved but little-used road. Moss is just arriving. He throws in the document case, the rifle and the machine pistol, climbs into the cab and slams the door. 
 What's in the satchel? 
 It's full a money. 
 That'll be the day. Moss is crossing to a back bedroom. Before he disappears inside Carla Jean sees the pistol stuck in the back of his waistband. 
 ...Where'd you get the pistol? 
 At the gettin' place. 
 Did you buy that gun? 
 No. I found it. 
 Llewelyn! 
 What? Quit hollerin'. He walks back sipping the beer and sprawls on the couch. 
 What'd you give for that thing? 
 You don't need to know everthing, Carla Jean. 
 I need to know that. 
 You keep running that mouth I'm gonna take you in the back and screw you. 
 Big talk. 
 Just keep it up. 
 Fine. I don't wanna know. I don't even wanna know where you been all day. 
 That'll work. 
 All right. 
 Llewelyn. 
 Yeah. 
 What're you doin', baby? 
 Goin' out. 
 Goin' where? 
 Somethin' I forgot to do. I'll be back. 
 What're you goin' to do? Moss turns from the sink, screwing the top onto the jug. 
 I'm fixin' to do somethin' dumbern hell but I'm goin' anyways. He starts toward the front door. 
 ...If I don't come back tell Mother I love her. 
 Your mother's dead, Llewelyn. 
 Well then I'll tell her myself. 
 A A detailed topographical survey map, illuminated by a flashlight. Moss is studying it in the cab of his truck. After a beat he folds the map. He checks the .45 taken off the corpse with the money. Wider: the pickup truck parked outside the cattle guard. After a beat, the truck drives over the grate onto the unpaved part of the road, jogging up the uneven terrain. Through the windshield, the view is pitch black except for the boulders and scrub picked out by the crazily bouncing headlights. 
 We are close on the water jug slapping against Moss's leg as we pull him through the darkness. The shape of his parked truck is just visible behind him, silhouetted on the crest by the glow of the moon already set. Walking across the basin to the near truck Moss freezes, 
 Hello?... No answer. He opens the door. The man's body is still held upright by the shoulder harness but his head, flayed by buckshot, is tipped away. Moss glances at the bed of the truck. 
 Goddamnit. He is looking out at the river. His boots are drifting by. 
 How much? 
 Sixty-nine cent. 
 This. And the gas. 
 Y'all getting any rain up your way? 
 What way would that be? 
 I seen you was from Dallas. Chigurh tears open the bag of cashews and pours a few into his hand. 
 What business is it of yours where I'm from, friendo? 
 I didn't mean nothin' by it. 
 Didn't mean nothin'. 
 I was just passin' the time. 
 I guess that passes for manners in your cracker view of things. A beat. 
 Well sir I apologize. If you don't wanna accept that I don't know what else I can do for you. 
 ...Will there be somethin' else? 
 I don't know. Will there? Beat. The proprietor turns and coughs. Chigurh stares. 
 Is somethin' wrong? 
 With what? 
 With anything? 
 Is that what you're asking me? Is there something wrong with anything? The proprietor looks at him, uncomfortable, looks away. 
 Will there be anything else? 
 You already asked me that. 
 Well... I need to see about closin'. 
 See about closing. 
 Yessir. 
 What time do you close? 
 Now. We close now. 
 Now is not a time. What time do you close. 
 Generally around dark. At dark. Chigurh stares, slowly chewing. 
 You don't know what you're talking about, do you? 
 Sir? 
 I said you don't know what you're talking about. Chigurh chews. 
 ...What time do you go to bed. 
 Sir? 
 You're a bit deaf, aren't you? I said what time do you go to bed. 
 Well... A pause. 
 ...I'd say around nine-thirty. Somewhere around nine-thirty. 
 I could come back then. 
 Why would you be comin' back? We'll be closed. 
 You said that. He continues to stare, chewing. 
 Well... I need to close now -- 
 You live in that house behind the store? 
 Yes I do. 
 You've lived here all your life? A beat. 
 This was my wife's father's place. Originally. 
 You married into it. 
 We lived in Temple Texas for many years. Raised a family there. In Temple. We come out here about four years ago. 
 You married into it. 
 ...If that's the way you wanna put it. 
 I don't have some way to put it. That's the way it is. 
 ...What's the most you've ever lost on a coin toss? 
 Sir? 
 The most. You ever lost. On a coin toss. 
 I don't know. I couldn't say. Chigurh is digging in his pocket. A quarter: he tosses it. He slaps it onto his forearm but keeps it covered. 
 Call it. 
 Call it? 
 Yes. 
 For what? 
 Just call it. 
 Well -- we need to know what it is we're callin' for here. 
 You need to call it. I can't call it for you. It wouldn't be fair. It wouldn't even be right. 
 I didn't put nothin' up. 
 Yes you did. You been putting it up your whole life. You just didn't know it. You know what date is on this coin? 
 No. 
 Nineteen fifty-eight. It's been traveling twenty-two years to get here. And now it's here. And it's either heads or tails, and you have to say. Call it. A long beat. 
 Look... I got to know what I stand to win. 
 Everything. 
 How's that? 
 You stand to win everything. Call it. 
 All right. Heads then. Chigurh takes his hand away from the coin and turns his arm to look at it. 
 Well done. He hands it across. 
 ...Don't put it in your pocket. 
 Sir? 
 Don't put it in your pocket. It's your lucky quarter. 
 ...Where you want me to put it? 
 Anywhere not in your pocket. Or it'll get mixed in with the others and become just a coin. Which it is. He turns and goes. The proprietor watches him. 
 Llewelyn? What the hell? Moss enters and the door closes. 
 Odessa. 
 Why would we go to Odessa? 
 Not we, you. Stay with your mother. 
 Well -- how come? 
 Right now it's midnight Sunday. When the courthouse opens nine hours from now someone's gonna be callin in the vehicle number off the inspection plate on my truck. And around nine- thirty they'll show up here. 
 So... for how long do we have to... 
 Baby, at what point would you quit botherin' to look for your two million dollars? 
 What'm I supposed to tell Mama? 
 Try standin' in the door and hollerin: Mama I'm home. 
 
 -- 
 C'mon, pack your things. Anything you leave you ain't gonna see again. Carla Jean begins peevishly tossing things into a bag: 
 Well thanks for fallin' all over and apologizing. 
 Things happened. I can't take 'em back. 
 Mind ridin' bitch? 
 This his truck? He is opening the door and looking at the plate riveted inside. 
 Mm-hm. 
 Screwgie. The man reaches into a pocket and hands over a screwdriver. As Chigurh works it under the plate: 
 ...Who slashed his tires? 
 Wudden us. 
 That's a dead dog. 
 Thank you. Chigurh plays the flashlight around the scene. Dead bodies on the ground. 
 ...Where's the transponder? 
 In the truck. I'll get it. 
 These are some ripe petunias. Chigurh gives his flashlight to the driver. 
 Hold this please. He bends down and takes a 9 mm. Glock off of one of the dead bodies and checks the clip. The other man is returning from the truck. He hands Chigurh a small electronic receiver. 
 ...You getting anything on this? 
 Not a bleep. 
 All right... Chigurh stands and holds his hand out for his flashlight. The driver hands it to him. Chigurh shines it in his face and shoots him through the forehead. As the man falls Chigurh pans the light to the other man who has watched his partner drop. He looks up, puzzled, and is shot as well. 
 I thought it was a car afire. 
 It is a car afire. But Wendell said there was something back country too. 
 When is the county gonna start payin' a rental on my horse. 
 Hyah! He is sending a second horse up into the trailer. 
 ...I love you more'n more, ever day. 
 
 ...Be careful. 
 I always am. 
 Don't get hurt. 
 I never do. 
 Don't hurt no one. 
 Well. If you say so. 
 You wouldn't think a car would burn like that. 
 Yessir. We should a brought wieners. Sheriff Bell takes his hat off and mops his brow. 
 Does that look to you like about a '77 Ford, Wendell? 
 It could be. 
 I'd say it is. Not a doubt in my mind. 
 The old boy shot by the highway? 
 Yessir, his vehicle. Man killed Lamar's deputy, took his car, killed someone on the highway, swapped for his car, and now here it is and he's swapped again for god knows what. 
 That's very linear Sheriff. Bell stares at the fire. 
 Well. Old age flattens a man. 
 Yessir. But then there's this other. He nods up the ridge away from the highway. 
 Uh-huh. He walks back toward the trailer. 
 ...You ride Winston. 
 You sure? 
 Oh, I'm more than sure. Anything happens to Loretta's horse I can tell you right now you don't wanna be the party that was aboard. 
 It's the same tire tread comin back as goin'. Made about the same time. You can see the sipes real clear. Wendell is standing in the stirrups, looking up the ridge. 
 Truck's just yonder. Somebodies pried the inspection plate off the door. Bell looks up, circling the truck. 
 I know this truck. Belongs to a feller named Moss. 
 Llewelyn Moss? 
 That's the boy. 
 You figure him for a dope runner? Bell sits his horse looking at the slashed tires. 
 I don't know but I kindly doubt it. 
 BASIN - DAY 
 Hell's bells, they even shot the dog. They walk towards the near truck. 
 ...Well this is just a deal gone wrong. Sheriff Bell stoops to look at casings. 
 Yes, appears to have been a glitch or two. 
 What calibers you got there, Sheriff? 
 Nine millimeter. Couple of .45 ACP's. He stands, looking at the truck. 
 ...Somebody unloaded on this thing with a shotgun. 
 Mm. Bell opens the door of the truck. Looks at the dead driver. 
 ...How come do you reckon the coyotes ain't been at 'em? 
 I don't know... He shuts the door softly with two hands. 
 ...Supposedly they won't eat a Mexican. Wendell is looking at the two corpses close together, wearing suits. 
 These boys appear to be managerial. Bell walks back toward the bed of the truck as Wendell 
: 
 ...I think we're lookin' at more'n one fracas. A gesture toward the scattered bodies. 
 ...Wild West over there... A nod down at the two men in suits with head wounds. 
 ...Execution here. Bell, at the back of the truck, wets a finger and runs it against the bed and looks at it. 
 That Mexican brown dope. Wendell strolls among the bodies. 
 These boys is all swole up. So this was earlier: gettin set to trade. Then, whoa, differences... You know: might not of even been no money. 
 That's possible. 
 But you don't believe it. 
 No. Probably I don't. 
 It's a mess, ain't it Sheriff? Bell is remounting. 
 If it ain't it'll do til a mess gets here. 
 We follow it being toted along a gravel path and up three shallow steps to a trailer door. A hand rises to knock. Tubing runs out of the sleeve and into the fist clenched to knock. The door rattles under the knock. A short beat. The hand opens to press the nozzle at the end of the tube against the lock cylinder. A sharp report. 
 Yessir? 
 I'm looking for Llewelyn Moss. 
 Did you go up to his trailer? 
 Yes I did. 
 Well I'd say he's at work. Do you want to leave a message? 
 Where does he work? 
 I can't say. 
 Where does he work? 
 Sir I ain't at liberty to give out no information about our residents. Chigurh looks around the office. He looks at the woman. 
 Where does he work? 
 Did you not hear me? We can't give out no information. A toilet flushes somewhere. A door unlatches. Footsteps in back. 
 Why all the way to Del Rio? 
 I'm gonna borrow a car. From Eldon. Carla Jean nods at the document case. 
 You can't afford one? 
 Don't wanna register it. I'll call you in a couple days. 
 Promise? 
 Yes I do. 
 I got a bad feelin', Llewelyn. 
 Well I got a good one. So they ought to even out. Quit worrying about everthing. 
 Mama's gonna raise hell. 
 Uh-huh. 
 She is just gonna cuss you up'n down. 
 You should be used to that. 
 I'm used to lots of things, I work at Wal-Mart. 
 Not any more, Carla Jean. You're retired. 
 Llewelyn? 
 Yes ma'am? 
 You are comin back, ain't ya? 
 I shall return. 
 Sheriff's Department! No answer. 
 Look at the lock. They both look. A beat. 
 We goin' in? 
 Gun out and up. Wendell unholsters his gun but hesitates. 
 What about yours? 
 I'm hidin' behind you. Wendell eases the door open. 
 Sheriff's Department! 
 ...Nobody here. He lowers his gun and starts to holster it. 
 No reason not to stay safe. Wendell keeps the gun out. 
 No sir. He goes to the bedroom door as Sheriff Bell, seeing the lock cylinder on the floor, stoops and hefts it. He looks up at the wall opposite the door: the small dent. 
 ...I believe they've done lit a shuck. 
 Believe you're right. 
 That from the lock? Sheriff Bell stands and wanders, looking around. 
 Probably must be. 
 So when was he here? 
 I don't know. Oh. He is at the counter staring at something. 
 ...Now that's aggravating. 
 Sheriff? Sheriff Bell points at the carton of milk. 
 Still sweating. Wendell is agitated. 
 Whoa! Sheriff! Sheriff Bell unhurriedly opens a cabinet. He looks closes it, opens another. 
 ...Sheriff, we just missed him! We gotta circulate this! On the radio! Sheriff Bell takes a glass from the cabinet. 
 Well, okay... He pours milk into the glass. 
 ...What do we circulate? He sits on the sofa and takes a sip from the milk. 
 ...Lookin' for a man who has recently drunk milk? Wendell stares at him. 
 Sheriff, that's aggravating. 
 I'm ahead of you there. Wendell gazes around the trailer, shaking his head. 
 You think this boy Moss has got any notion of the sorts of sons of bitches that are huntin' him? 
 I don't know. He ought to... Sheriff Bell takes another sip. 
 ...He seen the same things I seen and it made an impression on me. 
 Take me to a motel. 
 You got one in mind? 
 Just someplace cheap. 
 The rates for Charlie Goodnight's Del Rio Motor Court are under its address of Highway 84 East and an ovalled AAA logo: Single Person $24.00 Double Bed/Couple $27.00 2 Double Bed/Couple $28.00 2 Double Bed/3 People $32.00 Voices play off: 
 You tell me the option. 
 The what? 
 The option. Wider shows that we are in a motel lobby. A woman faces Moss across a Formica counter top She has handed him the framed rate card. 
 ...You pick the option with the applicable rate. 
 I'm just one person. Don't matter the size of the bed. 
 A pencil taps at a Del Rio number that repeats on the bill. We hear phone-filtered rings. The rings are cut off by the clatter of a hang-up. The pencil moves to an Odessa number, the only other repeat on the short list of toll calls. We cut up to Chigurh as he finishes dialing, in the booth of a roadside diner. Dusk. Phone-filtered rings. Connection; a woman's voice: 
 Hello? 
 Is Llewelyn there? 
 Llewelyn?! No he ain't. 
 You expect him? The woman's voice is old, querulous: 
 Now why would I expect him? Who is this? Chigurh stares for a short beat, then prongs the phone. 
 Hep you? 
 I need the Larry Mahan's in black, size 11. 
 Okay. 
 You sell socks? 
 Just white. He gathers up a brown paper bag from a pharmacy. 
 White is all I wear. You got a bathroom? 
 Ain't got Larries in black but I got 'em in osta-rich. Break in easy. 
 Don't stop. Just ride me up past the rooms. 
 What room? 
 Just drive me around. I want to see if someone's here. The cab rolls slowly up the lot. 
 ...Keep going. His pivoting point-of-view of his room. The window shows a part between the curtains. 
 ...Keep going. Don't stop. 
 I don't want to get in some kind of a jackpot here, buddy. 
 It's all right. 
 Why don't I set you down here and we won't argue about it. 
 I want you to take me to another motel. 
 Let's just call it square. Moss reaches a hundred-dollar bill up to the driver. 
 You're already in a jackpot. I'm trying to get you out of it. Now take me to a motel. The driver reaches up for the bill then turns the cab out of the parking lot onto the hiway. Moss turns to look at the receding lights of the motel. 
 
 He labs from Austin on the man by the highway. Bell takes the papers and starts to look at them. 
 What was the bullet? 
 Wasn't no bullet. This brings Bell's look up. 
 Wasn't no bullet? 
 Yessir. Wasn't none. 
 Well, Wendell, with all due respect, that don't make a whole lot of sense. 
 No sir. 
 You said entrance wound in the forehead, no exit wound. 
 Yes sir. 
 Are you telling me he shot this boy in the head and then went fishin' around in there with a pocket knife? 
 Sir, I don't want to picture that. 
 Well I don't either! A beat during which both men picture it, ended by an arriving waitress. 
 Can I freshen that there for you Sheriff? The Sheriff's distressed look swings on to her. 
 Yes Noreen you better had. Thank you. 
 The Rangers and DEA are heading out to the desert this morning. You gonna join 'em? 
 I don't know. Any new bodies accumulated out there? 
 No sir. 
 Well then I guess I can skip it. Heavens to Betsy, Wendell, you already put me off my breakfast. 
 Twelve gauge. You need shells? Moss looks the gun over. 
 Uh-huh. Double ought. 
 They'll give you a wallop. He pushes the shells across. 
 You have camping supplies? 
 A clerk stares at Moss. 
 Tent poles. 
 Uh-huh. 
 You already have the tent? 
 Somethin' like that. 
 Well you give me the model number of the tent I can order you the poles. 
 Never mind. I want a tent. 
 What kind of tent? 
 The kind with the most poles. 
 Well I guess that'd be our ten-foot backyard Per-Gola. You can stand up in it. Well, some people could stand up in it. Six foot clearance at the ridge. You might just could. 
 Let me have that one. Where's the nearest hardware store? 
 
 Could I get another room. 
 You want to change rooms? 
 No, I want to keep my room, and get another one. 
 Another additional. 
 Uh-huh.You got a map of the rooms? She inclines her head to look under the counter. 
 Yeah we had a sorta one. 
 What about one forty-two. 
 You can have the one next to yours if you want. One twenty. It ain't took. 
 No, one forty-two. 
 That's got two double beds. 
 Driving slowly down the street with frequent glances down at the receiver on the seat next to him. The receiver lights ups and bleeps one time. Chigurh slows and looks around at the buildings that line the two-lane highway. 
 The receiver is bleeping slowly as the car creeps along. Up at a distant intersection is Charlie Goodnight's Del Rio Motel. 
 He is slowly driving the parking lot, the receiver now in his lap. The beeping frequency peaks and then starts to fall off. Chigurh puts the truck in reverse and eases back to the peak. His point-of-view: window with parted curtains. 
 It swings slowly in toward us. Chigurh stands in the doorway. The room-number bangle hangs off the key in the knob. He stares in for a beat. 
 Moss pulls three wire hangers off the closet rack. He takes them to the bureau and picks up a sidecutter. 
 He walks over to the bathroom. He turns on its light, looks. 
 Moss snips the last of the wire hangers' hooks off with the sidecutter. He wraps the three hooks with duct tape to make a sturdier one. He wraps more tape to attach this hook to the end of the three-link pole. 
 From a bag he withdraws a twelve-gauge automatic shotgun fitted with a silencer big around as a beer can. He checks the loads. He picks up the regularly beeping receiver, turns it off, and slips it into his pocket. He hoists the air tank. 
 He is standing on the chair below the airduct, stooping to pick up the jury-rigged pole leaning nearby. He straightens and feeds the length of the pole into the duct, using the joints to angle it in. 
 We track on the feet padding down the exterior walkway. 
 Peering along the airduct, both hands up next to one ear awkwardly maneuvering the pole. He lays the far, hooked end over the protruding corner of the document case. He pulls. The pole slides off the case. 
 He stands at the door of Moss's first room. He eases an ear against it. He steps back. He punches out the lock cylinder with the airgun and kicks in the door, raising the shotgun. A Mexican in a guyabera reclines on one of the two double beds. He is scrabbling for a machine pistol on the nightstand. Chigurh fires three times quickly. The damped blasts have the low resonance of chugs into a bottle. 
 
 Also frozen, back against the wall outside the room, to one side of the open door. After a beat he steps back into the open doorway leveling the gun. Inside the room: no movement. Much of the man on the bed is spattered against the chewed-up headboard. The bathroom door is ajar, its light on. A long beat. 
 MOSS'S POV Along the air vent. The machine-pistol chatter crosses the cut. We hear bullets snap through metal. The sound brings on indirect light as holes are punched in the duct somewhere around the bend. Moss holds still as the galvanized metal faintly thunders. The flashlight resting on it wobbles. 
 Gun leveled, at the open door. Again, no movement. He advances into the room, gun pointing at the bathroom door. As he advances he swings the gun briefly over at the closet door and fires. The splintered-in door reveals no occupant. 
 He uses the shotgun barrel to push open what's left of the bathroom door. 
 No me mate. The man on the floor is quite dead. A machine pistol lies in one out-flung hand. Chigurh looks back up at the survivor. 
 How'd you find it? 
 No me mate. Chigurh walks unhurriedly to the tub. The man watches him, hands up, vibrating. Chigurh reaches with his free hand and pulls the shower curtain most of the way round, hiding the man. He angles the nose of the shotgun in and fires. 
 
 Shouldn't be doin' that. Even a young man like you. 
 Doin' what. The old man gazes at the road. 
 Hitchhikin'. He shakes his head again. Silent driving. The old man murmurs: 
 Dangerous. 
 You know Anton Chigurh by sight, is that correct? Carson Wells sits in front of the desk, his manner affable. He rests a booted foot across one knee. 
 Yessir, that's correct. I know 'em when I see 'em. 
 When did you last see him. 
 November the 28th, last year. 
 You seem pretty sure of the date. Did I ask you to sit? 
 No sir but you struck me as a man who wouldn't want to waste a chair. I remember dates. Names. Numbers. I saw him on November 28th. The man gazes. He nods. 
 We got a loose cannon here. And we're out a bunch of money, and the other party is out his product. 
 Yessir. I understand that. The man looks at him, appraising. He nods again and slides a bank card across the table. 
 This account will only give up twelve hundred dollars in any twenty-four hour period. That's up from a thousand. Wells rises to take the card and then reseats himself. 
 Yessir. 
 If your expenses run higher I hope you'll trust us for it. 
 Okay. 
 How well do you know Chigurh. 
 Well enough. 
 That's not an answer. 
 What do you want to know? 
 I'd just like to know your opinion of him. In general. Just how dangerous is he? Wells shrugs. 
 Compared to what? The bubonic plague? He's bad enough that you called me. He's a psychopathic killer but so what? There's plenty of them around. A beat. 
 He killed three men in a motel in Del Rio yesterday. And two others at that colossal goatfuck out in the desert. 
 Okay. We can stop that. 
 You seem pretty sure of yourself. You've led something of a charmed life haven't you Mr. Wells? Wells rises. 
 In all honesty I can't say that charm has had a whole lot to do with it. He thumps once at his chest. 
 ...I'm wondering... 
 Yes? 
 Can I get my parking ticket validated? 
 ...An attempt at humor, I suppose. 
 I'm sorry. 
 Goodbye, Mr. Wells. 
 One room, one night. 
 That's twenty-six dollars. 
 You on all night? 
 Yessir, be here til ten tomorrow morning. Moss pushes a hundred along with smaller bills across the desk. 
 For you. I ain't asking you to do anything illegal. The clerk looks at the hundred-dollar bill without reaching. 
 I'm waitin' to hear your description of that. 
 There's somebody lookin' for me. Not police. Just call me if anyone else checks in tonight. 
 There just ain't no way. He sits up and turns on the bedside lamp. The shot gun and document case are on the floor by the bed. Moss swings the document case onto the bed and unclasps it and upends the money onto the bed. He feels the bottom of the case, squeezing it with one hand inside and one hand out, looking for a false bottom. He eyeballs the case, turning it over and around. He starts riffling money packets. He finds one that binds. It has hundreds on the outside but ones inside with the centers cut out. In the hollow is a sending unit the size of a Zippo lighter. 
 I'm not going to hurt you. I need you to -- The windshield stars. A quick second round pushes part of the windshield in. Rounds come in without pause, cracking sheet metal, blowing the cab's rear window into the truckbed, twisting the rear- view. A round seems to have caught the driver in the throat: a gurgling scream as he claws at his windpipe, blowing out blood. Moss, quicker to react, has already ducked below the dash. A snap of the driver's head and a new freshet of blood from a shot to the head. The screams turn to low gurgles. Moss, jammed almost in to the driver's lap, frantically gropes for the shift. He throws the pickup into drive and stamps at the accelerator, driving blind as bullets continue to pour in. He raises his head enough to see his side-view. It shows sluing, bouncing, empty street, rough guide for steering. A tremendous jounce up onto the curb then off it, the driver's body swaying in its restraint. The passenger side window shatters: we are passing the gunman. Now Moss sits up to steer looking out front. Behind him through the shot-out back window the dark street is suddenly punctured by muzzleflash. It comes, for the first time, with a report: the low chug of the muted shotgun. Rattle of shot against sheet metal. Moss floors the gas to roar into a turn. The street sweeping out of view behind him produces one more chugging muzzleflash. 
 I'll give you five hundred bucks for your shirt and your coat. 
: 
 Let's see the money. Moss unpeels bills from a moist wad. The top one is bloody. 
 ...Were you in a car accident? 
 Yeah. 
 Okay, lemme have the money. 
 It's right here. Give me the coat. 
 Lemme hold the money. Moss does. 
 Gimme the clothes. The youth starts to peel them. 
 ...And let me have your beer. 
 ...How much? 
 Brian. Give him the beer. 
 The boys are receding. Moss pours the beer over his head, rubbing blood away. He opens his shirt. He inspects the wounds in his midriff, entrance and exit. Pulsing blood laps weakly out. He shrugs off his shirt, wraps it around his waist and knots it. He starts to put on the new shirt. Something stops him. He pauses. He vomits into the roadbed. 
 Doctor. 
 ...Medico. Por favor. 
 Chigurh lowers himself into bath water that quickly turns pink. He laves water over his bloody thigh. There is a dark red hole, one half inch across, pulsing blood into the bath water Torn pieces of fabric from his pants are embedded in the bleeding skin. 
 A We are looking at the wound in a magnifying mirror. Forceps enter and pluck a tiny piece of blood-soaked fabric from the skin. 
 A bathroom tap. The forceps enter. They are rinsed, shaken off. Wider: Chigurh sits on the closed toilet with the mirror sitting on the edge of the tub, angled toward the wound. Chigurh works on cleaning it. 
: 
 Anything on those vehicles yet? A raised female voice from the front office: 
 Sheriff I found out everything there was to find. Those vehicles are titled and registered to deceased people. Molly, the secretary, appears at the doorway. 
 ...The owner of that Blazer died twenty years ago. Did you want me to see what I could find out about the Mexican ones? 
 No. Lord no. He holds out the checkbook. 
 ...This month's checks. 
 I'm goin' to try and keep from it as much as I can. 
 Well that's cordial of him. I guess he can go wherever he wants. He's a certified agent of the United States Government. 
 ...Could I get you to call Loretta and tell her I've gone to Odessa? goin' to visit with Carla Jean Moss. 
 I'll call Loretta when I get there. I'd call now but she'll want me to come home and I just might. 
 Yes I do. You don't want to lie without what it's absolutely necessary. Molly trails him into the front office. 
 ...What is it that Torbert says? About truth and justice? 
 I think I'm goin' to commence dedicatin' myself twice daily. It may come to three times before it's over... A loud truck-by from the street outside. Sheriff Bell's eyes track the passing vehicle. 
 ...What the hell? 
 Sheriff. 
 Have you looked at your load lately? 
 A Both men are at the back of the truck. 
 That's a damned outrage. 
 Oh. One of the tiedowns worked lose. Bell whips the tarp back to expose eight corpses wrapped blue sheeting bound with tape. 
 How many did you leave with? The driver is still smiling. 
 I ain't lost none of 'em, Sheriff. 
 Couldn't you all of took a van out there? 
 Didn't have no van with four-wheel drive. Sheriff Bell pulls the tarp down and ties it. The driver watches without helping. 
 ...You going to write me up for improperly secured load? Sheriff Bell cinches the knot tight. 
 You get your ass out of here. 
 I'm guessin'... this is not the future you pictured for yourself when you first clapped eyes on that money. Moss blearily focuses on: A fancy crocodile boot. His look rises from the boot, crossed on his visitor's knee, up to the man's face. Carson Wells smiles at him from the bedside chair. 
 ...Don't worry. I'm not the man that's after you. 
 I know, I've seen him. Sort of. Wells is surprised. 
 You've seen him. And you're not dead. He nods, impressed. 
 ...But that won't last. 
 What is he supposed to be, the ultimate bad-ass? 
 I don't think that's how I would describe him. 
 How would you describe him? 
 I guess I'd say... that he doesn't have a sense of humor. His name is Chigurh. 
 Sugar? 
 Chigurh. Anton Chigurh. You know how he found you? 
 I know how he found me. 
 It's called a transponder. 
 I know what it is. He won't find me again. 
 Not that way. 
 Not any way. 
 Took me about three hours. 
 I been immobile. 
 No. You don't understand. Wells sits back and studies Moss. 
 ...What do you do? 
 I'm retired. 
 What did you do? 
 I'm a welder. 
 Acetylene? Mig? Tig? 
 Any of it. If it can be welded I can weld it. 
 Cast iron? 
 Yes. 
 I don't mean braze. 
 I didn't say braze. 
 Pot metal? 
 What did I say? 
 Were you in Nam? 
 Yeah. I was in Nam. 
 So was I. 
 So what does that make me? Your buddy? Wells sits smiling at him. A beat. 
 Look. You need to give me the money. I've got no other reason to protect you. 
 Too late. I spent it -- about a million and a half on whores and whiskey and the rest of it I just sort of blew it in. Wells' smile stays in place. 
 How do you know he's not on his way to Odessa? Moss stares at him. A beat. 
 Why would he go to Odessa? 
 To kill your wife. Another beat. 
 Maybe he should be worried. About me. 
 He isn't. You're not cut out for this. You're just a guy that happened to find those vehicles. Moss doesn't respond. 
 ...You didn't take the product, did you? 
 What product. 
 The heroin. You don't have it. 
 No I don't have it. 
 No. You don't. He rises. 
 ...I'm across the river. At the Hotel Eagle. Carson Wells. Call me when you've had enough. I can even let you keep a little of the money. 
 If I was cuttin' deals, why wouldn't I go deal with this guy Chigurh? 
 No no. No. You don't understand. You can't make a deal with him. Even if you gave him the money he'd still kill you. He's a peculiar man. You could even say that he has principles. Principles that transcend money or drugs or anything like that. He's not like you. He's not even like me. 
 He don't talk as much as you, I give him points for that. 
 Carla Jean, I thank you for comin'. She sits. He sits. 
 Don't know why I did. I told you, I don't know where he is. 
 You ain't heard from him? 
 No I ain't. 
 Nothin'? 
 Not word one. 
 Would you tell me if you had? 
 Well, I don't know. He don't need any trouble from you. 
 It's not me he's in trouble with. 
 Who's he in trouble with then? 
 Some pretty bad people. 
 Llewelyn can take care of hisself. 
 These people will kill him, Carla Jean. They won't quit. 
 He won't neither. He never has. 
 I wish I could say that was in his favor. But I have to say I don't think it is. 
 He can take all comers. Bell looks at her. After a beat: 
 You know Charlie Walser? Has the place east of Sanderson? She shakes her head, shrugs. 
 ...Well you know how they used to slaughter beeves, hit 'em with a maul right here to stun 'em... Indicates between his own eyes. 
 ...and then truss 'em up and slit their throats? Well here Charlie has one trussed up and all set to drain him and the beef comes to. It starts thrashing around, six hundred pounds of very pissed-off livestock if you'll pardon my... Charlie grabs his gun there to shoot the damn thing in the head but what with the swingin' and twistin' it's a glance-shot and ricochets around and comes back hits Charlie in the shoulder. You go see Charlie, he still can't reach up with his right hand for his hat... Point bein', even in the contest between man and cow the issue is not certain. He takes a sip of coffee, leaving room for Carla Jean to argue if inclined. She does not. Sheriff Bell hands a card across. 
 ...When Llewelyn calls, just tell him I can make him safe. She takes the card. Sheriff Bell sips. 
 ...Course, they slaughter beeves different now. Use a air gun. Shoots out a rod, about this far into the brain... He holds thumb and forefinger a couple inches apart. 
 ...Sucks back in. Animal never knows what hit him. Another beat. Carla Jean stares at him. 
 Why you tellin' me that, Sheriff? 
 I don't know. My mind wanders. 
 Hello Carson. Let's go to your room. 
 We don't have to do this. I'm a daytrader. I could just go home. 
 Why would I let you do that? 
 I know where the money is. 
 If you knew, you would have it with you. 
 I need dark. To get it. I know where it is. 
 I know something better. 
 What's that. 
 I know where it's going to be. 
 And where is that. 
 It will be brought to me and placed at my feet. Wells wipes his mouth with his hand. 
 You don't know to a certainty. Twenty minutes it could be here. 
 I do know to a certainty. And you know what's going to happen now. You should admit your situation. There would be more dignity in it. 
 You go to hell. A beat. 
 Let me ask you something. If the rule you followed brought you to this, of what use was the rule? Another beat. 
 Do you have any idea how goddamn crazy you are? 
 You mean the nature of this conversation? 
 I mean the nature of you. Chigurh looks at him equably. Wells holds his look. 
 ...You can have the money. Anton. The phone rings. Wells looks at the phone. Chigurh hasn't moved. Wells looks at Chigurh, waiting for a decision. 
 MOSS'S VOICE ...Hello? 
 Yes? Another beat. 
 MOSS'S VOICE Is Carson Wells there. A longer beat. 
 Not in the sense that you mean. Moss doesn't answer. Chigurh gives him a beat, and then: 
 ...You need to come see me. 
 Who is this. 
 You know who it is. A beat. 
 ...You need to talk to me. 
 I don't need to talk to you. 
 I think that you do. Do you know where I'm going? 
 Why would I care where you're going. 
 Do you know where I'm going? No answer. 
 ...I know where you are. 
 Yeah? Where am I? 
 You're in the hospital across the river. But that's not where I'm going. Do you know where I'm going? 
 Yeah. I know where you're going. 
 All right. 
 You know she won't be there. 
 It doesn't make any difference where she is. 
 So what're you goin' up there for. A beat. 
 You know how this is going to turn out, don't you? 
 No. Do you? 
 Yes, I do. I think you do too. So this is what I'll offer. You bring me the money and I'll let her go. Otherwise she's accountable. The same as you. That's the best deal you're going to get. I won't tell you you can save yourself because you can't. 
 Yeah I'm goin' to bring you somethin' all right. I've decided to make you a special project of mine. You ain't goin' to have to look for me at all. Moss slams the phone onto its hook, then slams it twice more for good measure. Chigurh, in the hotel room, cradles his phone. 
 The motel in Del Rio? Wendell nods. 
 Yessir. None of the three had ID on 'em but they're tellin' me all three is Mexicans. Was Mexicans. 
 There's a question. Whether they stopped bein'. And when. 
 Yessir. 
 Now, Wendell, did you inquire about the cylinder lock? 
 Yessir. It was punched out. 
 Okay. 
 You gonna drive out there? 
 No, that's the only thing I would've looked for. And it sounds like these boys died of natural causes. 
 How's that, Sheriff? 
 Natural to the line of work they was in. 
 Yessir. 
 My lord, Wendell, it's just all-out war. I don't know any other word for it. Who are these folks? I don't know... He rattles the paper. 
 ...Here last week they found this couple out in California they would rent out rooms to old people and then kill em and bury em in the yard and cash their social security checks. They'd torture em first, I don't know why. Maybe their television set was broke. And this went on until, and here I quote... He looks through his glasses at the paper. 
 ..."Neighbors were alerted when a man ran from the premises wearing only a dog collar." You can't make up such a thing as that. I dare you to even try. He peers over his glasses at Wendell who respectfully shakes his head and tsks. Sheriff Bell rattles the paper again. 
 ...But that's what it took, you'll notice. Get someone's attention. Diggin graves in the back yard didn't bring any. Wendell bites back a smile. Sheriff Bell gazes at him over his glasses for a long beat, deadpan. 
 ...That's all right. I laugh myself sometimes. He goes back to the paper. 
 ...There ain't a whole lot else you can do. 
 Who do you think gets through this gate into the United States of America? 
 I don't know. American citizens. 
 Some American citizens. Who do you think decides? 
 You do, I reckon. 
 That is correct. And how do I decide? 
 I don't know. 
 I ask questions. If I get sensible answers then they get to go to America. If I don't get sensible answers they don't. Is there anything about that that you don't understand? 
 No sir. 
 Then I ask you again how you come to be out here with no clothes. 
 I got an overcoat on. 
 Are you jackin' with me? 
 No sir. 
 Don't jack with me. 
 Yes sir. 
 Are you in the service? 
 No sir. I'm a veteran. 
 Nam? 
 Yes sir. Two tours. 
 What outfit. 
 Twelfth Infantry Batallion. August seventh nineteen and sixty-six to July second nineteen and sixty-eight. 
 Wilson! 
 Yessir. 
 Get someone to help this man. He needs to get into town. 
 How those Larries holdin' up? Moss is walking up in his boots and overcoat and hospital robe. 
 Good. I need everything else. 
 Okay. 
 You get a lot of people come in here with no clothes on? 
 No sir, it's unusual. 
 She don't want to talk to you. 
 Yes she does. Put her on. 
 Do you know what time it is? 
 I don't care what time it is. Don't you hang up this phone. 
 I told her what was going to happen, didn't I. Chapter and verse. I said: This is what will come to pass. And now it has come to pass -- Scuffing sounds, a sharp "Mama!", and then, into the phone: 
 Llewelyn? 
 Hey. 
 What should I do? 
 You know what's goin' on? 
 I don't know, I had the sheriff here from Terrell County -- 
 What did you tell him? 
 What did I know to tell him. You're hurt, ain't you? 
 What makes you say that? 
 I can hear it in your voice. 
 
 (DISTANT) There is falseness in his voice! 
 Meet me at the Heart of Texas motel in El Paso. I'm gonna give you the money and put you on a plane. 
 Llewelyn, I ain't gonna leave you in the lurch. 
 No. This works better. With you gone and I don't have the money, he can't touch me. But I can sure touch him. After I find him I'll come and join you. 
 Find who? What am I supposed to do with Mother? 
 She'll be all right. 
 She'll be all right? 
 
 (DISTANT) Be all right! I've got the cancer! 
 I don't think anybody'll bother her. 
 A It blows in. The hole shows a brightly lit cinderblock wall behind. The door swings open and the air tank is swung in and deposited on carpet. Wider: Chigurh enters the carpeted hallway from the cinderblock stairwell, holding the tricked-out shotgun. The hallway is white wallboard, doors opening off it at long intervals. Chigurh stands still and listens. Nothing but the hum of ventilation. 
 Who are you? A long beat. 
 Yes. 
 He gave Acosta's people a receiver. 
 That's foolish. You pick the one right tool. Chigurh inclines his head toward the pocked glass of the picture window. 
 ...For instance. I used birshot. So as not to blow the window. 
 That depends. Do you see me? The man stares at him for a beat. 
 MOTHER'S VOICE And I always seen this is what it would come to. Three years ago I pre- visioned it. Wider shows Carla Jean and her mother in the back of the moving cab. 
 It ain't even three years we been married. 
 Three years ago I said them very words. No and Good. 
 Yes ma'am. 
 Now here we are. Ninety degree heat. I got the cancer. And look at this. Not even a home to go to. 
 Yes ma'am. 
 We're goin' to El Paso Texas. You know how many people I know in El Paso Texas? 
 No ma'am. She holds up thumb and forefinger curled to make an 0. 
 That's how many. Ninety degree heat. 
 I got it Mama. 
 I didn't see my Prednizone. 
 I put it in, Mama. 
 Well I didn't see it. 
 Well I put it in. That one. You just set there. I'll get tickets and a cart for the bags. 
 Well thank god there's one gentleman left in West Texas. Yes thank you. I am old and I am not well. 
 We're going to El Paso, don't ask me why. Discombobulated by a no-account son-in-law. Thank you. You don't often see a Mexican in a suit. 
 Carla Jean, how are you. 
 Sheriff, was that a true story about Charlie Walser? 
 Who's Charlie Walser. Oh! Well, I, uh... True story? I couldn't swear to ever detail but... it's certainly true that it is a story. 
 Yeah, right. Sheriff, can you give me your word on somethin'? 
 Yes ma'am? 
 If I tell you where Llewelyn's headed, you promise it'll be just you goes and talks with him -- you and nobody else? 
 Yes ma'am, I do. 
 Llewelyn would never ask for help. He never thinks he needs any. 
 Carla Jean, I will not harm your man. And he needs help, whether he knows it or not. 
 A driving point-of-view approaching Chigurh, who leans against his Ramcharger, its hood up, stopped on the shoulder on the opposite side of the road. Reverse shows a man in an El Camino. Chickens in stacked cages squawk and flutter in the bed. The man slows and rolls his window down to lean out. 
 What's the problem there, neighbor. 
 The man has pulled his vehicle over nose-to-nose with Chigurh's. He is rummaging in the car behind the seat. His voice comes out muffled: 
 Yeah, that'll suck some power. Over time. 
 You from around here? The man emerges with jumper cables. 
 Alpine. Born 'n bred. Here ya go. He hands one pair of leads to Chigurh. 
 What airport would you use. 
 Huh? Airport or airstrip? 
 Airport. 
 Well -- where ya goin'? 
 I don't know. 
 Just lightin' out for the territories, huh. Brother, I been there... Well... He takes off his hat and draws a sleeve across his brow, thinking. 
 ...There's airstrips. He turns with his pair of leads to clamp them onto his battery. On his back: 
 ...The airport is El Paso. You want some place specific you might could be better off just drivin' to Dallas. Not have to connect. He turns back around to face Chigurh who stands there, still holding his pair of leads. 
 ...You gonna clamp them, buddy? Chigurh is looking at him blandly. 
 Can you get those chicken crates out of the bed. The man stares at him. 
 What're you talkin' about? 
 Quarters are fed in. Wider as Chigurh unholsters the wand at a self-service car wash. He sprays the spatter-pattern rust-colored stain off the roof of the cab of the El Camino. Water drums as he sprays chicken feathers out of the bed. 
 Hey Mr. Sporting Goods. Moss looks. A woman sunbathes at the central court swimming pool. A lot of hard light. 
 Hey yourself. The woman is pretty in a roadhouse-veteran sort of way. Her voice carries a flat echo, slapping off the surface of the pool. 
 You a sport? Moss slings the bag into the room onto the bed and then turn and leans against a veranda post. 
 That's me. 
 I got beers in my room. Moss holds up his left hand to show the ring. 
 Waitin' for my wife. 
 Oh. That's who you keep lookin' out the window for? 
 Half. 
 What else then? 
 Lookin' for what's comin'. 
 Yeah but no one ever sees that. I like a man that'll tell you he's married. 
 Then you'll like me. 
 I do like you. A beat. Lapping water. 
 ...Beer. That's what's comin', I'll bring the ice chest out here. You can stay married. Building jet roar from another climbing plane. 
 Ma'am I know what beer leads to. The woman laughs. Before the plane overwhelms it: 
 Beer leads to more beer. 
 Driving. As he drives he refers to one side of the road, a commercial strip, looking for something. We hear the fading roar of a large airplane. 
 Call police. He is still jogging. A glance to the side: Rough point-of-view of a woman's body, belly-down at the lip of the pool, head and upper torso in the water. Rough point-of-view forward: an open room door. Booted feet stick out. Sheriff Bell arrives. Moss is face-up, mostly inside the room. The new gun bag is next to him. The gun is in hand. He is still. Voices. Sheriff Bell glances off. 
 ...Call your local law enforcement. I'm not on their radio. 
 Carla Jean... 
 No. 
 I don't know who she is. He puts his hat back on. 
 I thought maybe she was with your boy there. 
 No ID in her room? 
 Not hardly nothin' in her room. And that establishment was no stickler on registration. Well... 
 ...County'll bury her. Here Lies Female, Unknown. Her Number Was Up. A walking beat. 
 ...Buy you a cup of coffee before you drive home? 
 No money in his room there? 
 Couple hundred on his person. Those hombres would've taken the stash. 
 I suppose. Though they was leavin' in a hurry. 
 It's all the goddamned money, Ed Tom. The money and the drugs. It's just goddamned beyond everything. What is it mean? What is it leading to? 
 Yes. 
 If you'd a told me twenty years ago I'd see children walkin' the streets of our Texas towns with green hair and bones in their noses I just flat out wouldn't of believed you. 
 Signs and wonders. But I think once you stop hearin' sir and madam the rest is soon to follow. 
 It's the tide. It's the dismal tide. It is not the one thing. 
 Not the one thing. I used to think I could at least some way put things right. I don't feel that way no more. A beat. 
 ...I don't know what I do feel like. 
 Try "old" on for size. 
 Yessir. It may be that. In a nutshell. 
 None of that explains your man though. 
 Uh-huh. 
 He is just a goddamn homicidal lunatic, Ed Tom. 
 I'm not sure he's a lunatic. 
 Well what would you call him. 
 I don't know. Sometimes I think he's pretty much a ghost. 
 He's real all right. 
 Oh yes. 
 All that at the Eagle Hotel. It's beyond everything. 
 Yes, he has some hard bark on him. 
 That don't hardly say it. He shoots the desk clerk one day, and walks right back in the next and shoots a retired army colonel. They have reached Sheriff Bell's cruiser and he sits in. 
 Hard to believe. 
 Strolls right back into a crime scene. Who would do such a thing? How do you defend against it? Roscoe closes the door for Sheriff Bell. 
 ...Good trip Ed Tom. I'm sorry we couldn't help your boy. He is walking away. Sheriff Bell sits thinking in the cruiser. He makes no move for the ignition. A long beat. 
 A Licking itself on a plank floor, stiffened leg pointing out. It suddenly stops and looks up, ears perked. A frozen beat, and then it bolts. The camera booms up to frame the barren west Texas landscape outside the window of this isolated cabin. A pickup truck is approaching, trailing dust. The cat reenters frame outside, running across the rutted gravel in front of the house as the pickup slows. 
 Min back! Sheriff Bell enters. 
 How'd you know I was here. 
 Who else'd be in your truck. 
 You heard it? 
 How's that? 
 You heard my -- you havin' fun with me? 
 What give you that idea. I seen one of the cats heard it. 
 But -- how'd you know it was mine? 
 I deduced it. Once you walked in. Sheriff Bell stares at him. 
 How many a those things you got now? 
 Cats? Several. Wal. Depends what you mean by got. Some are half-wild, and some are just outlaws. 
 How you been, Ellis? 
 You lookin' at it. I got to say you look older. 
 I am older. 
 Got a letter from your wife. She writes pretty regular, tells me the family news. 
 Didn't know there was any. 
 She just told me you was quittin'. Sit down. Sheriff Bell lifts an electric percolator off the counter. 
 Want a cup? 
 'Predate it. 
 How fresh is this coffee? 
 I generally make a fresh pot ever week even if there's some left over. Sheriff Bell pours some. 
 That man that shot you died in prison. 
 In Angola. Yeah. 
 What would you a done if he'd been released? 
 I don't know. Nothin'. Wouldn't be no point to it. 
 I'm kindly surprised to hear you say that. 
 All the time you spend tryin' to get back what's been took from you there's more goin' out the door. After a while you just try and get a tourniquet on it. He taps a cigarette ash into a mason jar lid on the table in front of him. 
 ...Your granddad never asked me to sign on as deputy. I done that my own self. Loretta says you're quittin'. 
 Yes, you've circled round. 
 How come're you doin that? 
 I don't know. I feel overmatched. A beat. 
 ...I always thought when I got older God would sort of come into my life in some way. He didn't. I don't blame him. If I was him I'd have the same opinion about me that he does. 
 You don't know what he thinks. 
 Yes I do. A beat. 
 I sent Uncle Mac's badge and his old thumbbuster to the Rangers. For their museum there. Your daddy ever tell you how Uncle Mac come to his reward? Sheriff Bell shrugs. 
 ...Shot down on his own porch there in Hudspeth County. There was seven or eight of 'em come to the house. Wantin' this and wantin' that. Mac went back in and got his shotgun but they was way ahead of him. Shot him down in his own doorway. Aunt Ella run out and tried to stop the bleedin'. Him tryin to get hold of the shotgun again. They just set there on their horses watchin' him die. Finally one of 'em says somethin' in Injun and they all turned and left out. Well Mac knew the score even if Aunt Ella didn't. Shot through the left lung and that was that. As they say. 
 When did he die? 
 Nineteen zero and nine. 
 No, I mean was it right away or in the night or when was it. 
 Believe it was that night. She buried him the next mornin'. Diggin' in that hard caliche. A beat. 
 ...What you got ain't nothin' new. This country is hard on people. Hard and crazy. Got the devil in it yet folks never seem to hold it to account. 
 Most don't. 
 You're discouraged. 
 I'm... discouraged. 
 You can't stop what's comin. Ain't all waitin' on you. The two men look at each other. Ellis shakes his head. 
 ...That's vanity. After a beat, a fast fade. 
 KITCHEN - LATER Carla Jean sits at the kitchen table drinking tea. She looks out the window. Across the street kids are running through a sprinkler that chugs in the yard. 
 
 I knew this wasn't done with. Chigurh sits at the far end of the room in the late-afternoon shadows. 
 No. 
 I ain't got the money. 
 No. 
 What little I had is long gone and they's bill aplenty to pay yet. I buried my mother today. I ain't paid for that neither. 
 I wouldn't worry about it. 
 ...I need to sit down. Chigurh nods at the bed and Carla Jean sits down, hugging her hat and veil. 
 ...You got no cause to hurt me. 
 No. But I gave my word. 
 You gave your word? 
 To your husband. 
 That don't make sense. You gave your word to my husband to kill me? 
 Your husband had the opportunity to remove you from harm's way. Instead, he used you to try to save himself. 
 Not like that. Not like you say. 
 I don't say anything. Except it was foreseen. A beat. 
 I knowed you was crazy when I saw you settin' there. I knowed exactly what was in store for me. 
 Yes. Things fall into place. 
 1 Mister there's a bone stickin' out of your arm. 
 I'm all right. Let me just sit here a minute. 
 2 There's an ambulance comin. Man over yonder went to call. 
 All right. 
 1 Are you all right? You got a bone stickin' out of your arm. 
 What will you take for that shirt? The two boys look at each other. They look back. 
 2 What shirt? 
 Any damn shirt. I need something to wrap around my head and I need a sling for this arm. Boy 2 unbuttons his shirt. 
 2 Hell mister, I'll give you my shirt. 
 1 Look at that fuckin' bone. 
 Tie this for me. The two boys look at each other. 
 ...Just tie it. Boy 2, the one now wearing a T-shirt, ties it. Chigurh pulls a bill clip from his pocket and draws a bill out with his teeth. He holds it out to the boy. 
 2 Hell mister, I don't mind helpin' somebody out. That's a lot of money. 
 Take it. Take it and you didn't see me. I was already gone. 
 2 Yessir. Wide on Chigurh limping off. 
 1 Part of that's mine. 
 2 You still got your damn shirt. 
 1 That ain't what it was for. 
 2 Maybe, but I'm still out a shirt. 
 Maybe I'll go ridin. 
 Okay. 
 What do you think. 
 I can't plan your day. 
 I mean, would you care to join me. 
 Lord no. I'm not retired. A beat. Sheriff Bell sips his coffee. 
 Maybe I'll help here then. A beat. Loretta takes a sip. 
 Better not. They both sip. 
 ...How'd you sleep? 
 I don't know. Had dreams. 
 Well you got time for 'em now. Anything interesting? 
 Well they always is to the party concerned. 
 Ed Tom, I'll be polite. 
 Okay. Two of 'em. Both had my father. It's peculiar. I'm older now'n he ever was by twenty years. So in a sense he's the younger man. Anyway, first one I don't remember so well but it was about meetin' him in town somewheres and he give me some money and I think I lost it. The second one, it was like we was both back in older times and I was on horseback goin' through the mountains of a night. 
 ...goin' through this pass in the mountains. It was cold and snowin', hard ridin'. Hard country. He rode past me and kept on goin'. Never said nothin' goin' by. He just rode on past and he had his blanket wrapped around him and his head down... The rider passes as described, horses' hooves drumming and scattering divots of earth and snow. 
 
