 Trilogy Entertainment Group in association with:                    July 10, 1990 WARNER BROS. INC.                       © 1990 4000 Warner Boulevard                   WARNER BROS. INC. Burbank, California 91522               All Rights Reserved 
 The glowing orb ripples like a blood-red eye. 
 He says you stole his bread. 
 It is a lie. I caught him stealing ours. The lowlife jabbers some more.    The Interrogator debates. 
 Cut off the infidel's hand. The jailers haul Peter to the chopping block. (CONTINUED) 
 No!... I took the bread. 
 That's not true. 
 They're not interested in truth. You are too weak, Peter. You would not live through it. The Interrogator stares into Robin's eyes. 
 Sacrifice for the weaker? How noble... As you wish... Cut off this one's hand as well!... But first... He indicates an Arab prisoner, who is dragged forward. His struggling hand is laid on the executioner's block. 
 Show them the courage of Allah. The prisoner's face braces for the pain. A red-hot scimitar flashes down. The hand flips into a basket. Twitching. Robin is next. His composure fails. He flops to his knees, crying. The Interrogator laughs. The jailers unlash the thongs on Robin's hand. They stretch it out, forcing it down. Robin goes limp, sobbing. Peter catches his eye... Robin winks. The scimitar. Drawn from the coals. Spitting flame. Arcs down. Robin is suddenly galvanized. 
 And this is English courage. He hurls his holders aside. Swings upward, driving his fast into the executioner's throat. Grabs the sword. Slash. His thongs melt like butter. A jailer leaps at him. Steaming, the scimitar slices into the man's chest. Despite his bindings, Peter wrestles the Interrogator. Knife pressed to his throat, Peter is forced against the furnace. At the last second, he flips the man into the fire. Screaming. 
 That's for five years of hell. (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Behind you! Warned, Robin ducks away.    Slams the jailer's head into the wall. Peter frees himself, but they are still outnumbered. While fighting, Robin acknowledges the man who shouted the warning. An imposing, shaven-headed SARACEN. Heavily-muscled arms and chest, covered in tattoos. Even his bald head is ornamented. 
 You speak English? 
 The king's own. Set me free. 
 No, Robin. 
 For pity's sake. Mine is a sentence of death. Robin sidesteps, propelling a guard into a pit. 
 Don't trust him. Two more guards attack, yelling fury.    Robin eyes the curved scimitar. 
 What I would give for an English sword. This is a pruning hook. A guard swings at him with a giant axe.    Robin slashes... shears the axe handle in two. 
 Hmm!   Not bad. He runs the man through. Peter loses his sword. His opponent moves in for the kill... Peter grabs tongs from the fire and smolders his opponent with a backhand. Commotion outside.    RAISED VOICES and RUNNING FEET. 
 Free me and I will show you a way out. (CONTINUED) 
 Why should we trust you? 
 If you don't, you are dead men. 
 He makes a point. The door bursts open.    More guards rush in. 
 A good point. He slashes the man free. 
 Robin! 
 Whatever blood is in his veins, he does not deserve to die here. 
 This way! He beckons them to the back.     A hidden door leads into a tunnel. 
 You are fast, my friend. 
 Five years I've waited for the smell of free air. That makes a man fast. Guards drop down from above, carrying torches.    Blocking the way. 
 You will need to be yet faster. A narrow opening to their left... they splash through. Half running, half crawling in the dank water. Fire arrows land around them. The orange smoke is choking. (CONTINUED) 
 Poison air.   Hold your breath. Flames illuminate the walls, alive with a loathsome mass of crawling slime. Peter falls. A pursuer descends on him, thrusting a blazing torch at his face. The Saracen intercepts the blow. Grabs the man's neck, SNAPPING it with one mighty twist. 
 (coughing) Thanks. I misjudged you. 
 Save your breath. 
 Allah be praised. 
 Amen, brother. A bloodcurdling scream. A pursuing guard tumbles down the sewer chute. The three men press themselves against the wall. The man hurtles by... is impaled on the spikes. A draft of fresh air from the roof of the tunnel. Using the spiked guard as a ladder, Robin climbs. Removes a grating. 
 God willing, we may now be safe. (CONTINUED) 
 Come, Peter.    We must hurry. Raising his sword, Peter faces the oncoming soldiers. 
 It is mortal.    Leave me. 
 Hold on to my shoulder. 
 My mother... my little sister. Tell them I love them. Tell them I died a free Englishman. Robin looks despairingly to the Saracen. 
 His wound is by the heart.    We cannot save him. Robin knows it's true. Peter pulls an insignia ring from a hidden pouch in his clothes. Thrusts it into Robin's hand. 
 Take this to my sister. Swear you will protect her for me... Swear it, Robin! 
 (reluctantly) I swear it. Summoning hidden resources of strength, Peter charges at the oncoming soldiers, brandishing his sword. 
 For England. He fells the first Arab.   The Saracen pulls Robin away. 
 Come now! Do not fail your friend. Make his sacrifice an act of honor. They vanish into the night. Fighting like a man pos- sessed, Peter is swallowed in a sea of enemy soldiers. 
 Farewell, friend. God speed you on your way. 
 Our way is together. With the speed of Allah. He grins.    This strange man has a sense of humor. 
 I go to England. 
 Then I go to England. 
 England?   Why? 
 You saved my life. I must stay with you until I save yours. 
 Go your own way. I relieve you of your obligation. 
 Only Allah can do that. 
 And if I don't want you? 
 You have no choice... unless you think you can kill me. He grins broadly.      Offers his hand. 
 My name is Aslan. Resigned, Robin takes the proferred hand. 
 Robin of Locksley. You know a short route to England, Aslan? CUT TO: 
 (O.S.) Enough of that din, Remus.    I can't think. Licking the bone gratefully, the dog looks in the direc- tion of the voice... Grey. Proud. Distinguished. LORD 
. Seated at a table, wine goblet in hand, he pores   over a wonderful illustrated Bible. Reading to himself    for solace and strength. Empty chairs surround the    vast table. A deep sense of loneliness. He glances     at a portrait over the fireplace... Robin. The dog jumps. Hackles rise. O.S. SHOUTS. Locksley unsheathes a dagger. Obscures it in the folds of the Bible. The door bursts open. A peasant, ragged, desperate, KENNETH. 
 My Lord!   Help me. He's bleeding from a face wound. Another man grabs him from behind. Locksley's craggy-faced retainer, DUNCAN. Older than his master, but still strong, he holds Kenneth back. DUNCAN You must wait... I am sorry you were disturbed, Master. 
 (high anxiety) My Lord, please! 
 It is alright, Duncan. (to Kenneth) You are Kenneth of Cowfall? The peasant falls to his knees. (CONTINUED) 
 They've taken my Gwen.    My daughter. 
 Who has taken her? 
 Men on horses. In masks. (touches his wound) We tried to stop them. My son is dead. 
 That may be too late. Kenneth, lead the way. He kicks his horse into motion. DUNCAN Master, stay!    There is an evil moon tonight. 
 Good will overcome, Duncan.      Trust in that. Duncan looks up.    Crosses himself.    Dark clouds race across the moon. CUT TO: 
 They came this way, my Lord. 
 Onward then.    What is this place? (CONTINUED) 
 Nearby the Gregor Caves. Locksley reacts -- a hint of fear. They move on... Ahead, the hillside glows, rimmed in eerie light. Strange primitive CHANTS, wafted on the wind. Locksley ties his nervous horse to a tree. Parting undergrowth, Kenneth creeps forward. Cries out. He's face to face with the maggot-eaten skull of a goat. Beyond it, a gruesome host of half-skinned human skulls, all arranged on stakes. Some male, others with rotting female tresses, staring eyelessly into the night. Kenneth turns to run... A hand grabs him. 
 Steady, man. They are to dissuade the faint of heart. Think of Gwen. From the crest of the rise, they peer down into the craggy valley. A cave opening, ablaze with flames leers at them like the mouth of hell. Before the cave, a circle of stones. A miniature Stonehenge. A medieval orgy. Men and women in masks and loose robes. Dancing. Drinking. Reveling. Pure carnality. Lord Locksley and Kenneth watch in horror. Faces ashen. 
 Druids. 
 I trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago. 
 (petrified) Is it the devil? 
 If it is, I have some Christian steel that will test his hide. He draws his sword. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt. A girl is dragged from the cave. Kenneth buries his head. (CONTINUED) 
 Gwen? Kenneth nods. The Demon shrieks, dervishing around GWEN, who  is carried onto the central plinth stone. A pagan   altar, the shape of an elephant's head with its trunk  raised. A masked figure stands at the head of the altar.   The high priest of the dark rite. The girl's body shudders as blood-red liquid is forced down her throat. The Demon's voice is husky and hideous. 
 Come, my virgin flower. Hypnotized by the creature's voice and snake-like move- ments, Gwen stretches herself out. A single beam of sunlight slices through the mist, like a laser. The first light of the rising sun, it strikes directly on the altar, tracking down towards the girl's heart. The Demon's raised talons close in on the white flesh of her neck. Gwen's eyes are open wide, in a trance. The crowd of revelers encircle the plinth. Awed anticipation... A warrior's yell! Sword raised, Locksley THUNDERS in on his CHARGER. The terrified crowd parts. The Demon screams like a banshee. 
 Kill him!   Kill him! The followers throw themselves at   Locksley. He beats them off. The high priest issues    orders to armed guards, who run to intercept. One aims a    spear. Locksley hacks the shaft in half. Cuts men down    left and right. Reaches the altar stone. 
 Gwen!   Up, girl, up! Gwen shakes off her trance. The Demon launches itself at Locksley. Talons rip flesh from his face. With all his strength, Locksley hurls the creature down. 
 In the name of God! His broadsword swings in a mighty arc. Slices across the gargoyle's skull. Clean through half the face... Impossibly, the demon rolls back to its feet. (CONTINUED) 
 Nottingham! The SHERIFF OF NOTTINGHAM. Powerful build, black beard, cruel intensity in every feature. 
 You are an unwelcome surprise, Locksley. 
 The King shall hear of this, Nottingham. 
 I think not. Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them. 
 One day all England will worship with us. 
 Never. The crone spits venom in his face. 
 I am Mortianna. You will die with my name on your lips. Locksley's agonized cry fills the valley. On the hill- side, Kenneth averts his eyes. Turns to run. Five masked figures block his way. 
 Home.    Thank you, Lord. Aslan steps from the boat, sniffing the air. The French sailors keep their distance from him. Robin takes his hand. 
 My friend, you have escorted me home. I beg you to free yourself of your vow. Return with the boat. I know how heavy your heart must be, this far from your family and native land... 
 ASLAN (SARACEN) Because I love them so dearly, I cannot dishonor them. A sailor creeps up behind Aslan, club in hand. 
 I thought you'd say that. He nods to the sailor, who swings the club down. The Saracen sidesteps, grabs the man's arm and flips him into the surf. He turns a cold stare on Robin. 
 No man controls my destiny. Especially not one who attacks downwind and stinks of garlic. Robin laughs.    The Saracen remains intense. 
 If our positions were reversed, I would have done the same. Only I would have succeeded. He smiles broadly.    Robin claps him on the shoulder. 
 Come, Aslan. By nightfall we will celebrate your honor when we dine with my father. 
 You owe the sheriff three bushels of flax. 
 You starve us. First the drought, now you take what food we have left. 
 For starving people, you look fat enough. 
 (emerging from the hut) He's not here, sir. None but the woman and children. 
 (to Fanny) Where is your mate? The man they call Little. 
 He died last winter. 
 Is that so? We hear he     is very much alive. Hiding out     in the forest. He probably ran     away to escape your scolding    tongue. The soldiers join in his laughter. Incensed, Fanny pounds her fist on his legs. Gisborne kicks her down. 
 Norman swine! A BOY of 12 springs from nowhere, thrusting a hay fork at Gisborne's throat. (CONTINUED) 
 No, Wulf! Don't! 'Twill only make it worse. Wulf backs off.   Nostrils flaring with repressed hate. 
 Seize him! While two soldiers grab the Boy, others examine his hiding place. A secret thatched door, built into the side of a haystack... a bow and quiver... and a deer carcass. Gisborne dismounts. 
 This is Lord Nottingham's deer. Is this how you repay the Sheriff for his protection? 
 WULF (BOY) Like a wolf protects sheep. 
 I killed it.   We needed the meat. 
 Poachers hang. Either he dies or you die. 
 My mother lies to protect me. 
 No, Wulf! Gisborne drags the boy to the carcass. 
 You have deprived us of a hunt, boy. He cups his hand in the deer's blood.    Smears it on Wulf's face. 
 The hounds know the scent well. He tosses his bloody glove to the dogs. They tear at each other in their effort to rip at the glove. 
 Run, boy. Like a deer. Give us some pleasure before you die. (CONTINUED) 
 Unleash them! 
 Why must you walk in back of me? 
 In your land am I not the infidel? The unbeliever, the instrument of evil? 
 Our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point. 
 Then I trust it is safer to appear as your slave than as your equal. 
 For an 'infidel' you have uncommon clarity of thinking. Yet you refuse to tell me about your home and family. 
 Those are my burdens. 
 You speak my language. You have the diplomacy and honor code of a nobleman. I ask again, why were you to be executed? The Saracen maintains a moody silence. 
 So, I must continue with my guesswork. You are highborn? Probably... You fell from favor... Clearly... Why? You broke the law? You were a rival for power? ... A woman? (CONTINUED) 
 By the Lord, that's it! Aslan is silent, but Robin knows he's right. 
 They say there are Arab women of such beauty that they can possess a man's mind, that he would be willing to die for them. Is that not so? Ignoring him, the Saracen stops.      Examines the darkening sky. 
 It is close to sunset. 
 Your people must marry women chosen for them by others, right? No reply.    Aslan unfolds a prayer rug. 
 Who is she? The Mullah's daughter? ... Another man's wife?... That's it! 
 Endless clouds. Is there no sun in your cursed country? 
 You dog! You painted old dog! What is her name? 
 Which way is East? 
 Her name? 
 East? 
 Her name? 
 East?!!! Robin folds his arms.    A standoff. (CONTINUED) 
 Damn you!... Jasmina. 
 Ah, Jasmina!    Is she beautiful? 
 Which way is East? 
 That way. Aslan throws his rug on the ground.    Kneels. 
 Are you sure? 
 I would know blindfolded. I'm five miles from home... Was she worth it? 
 Worth dying for. Robin stands smiling over him as Aslan begins his prayers... BAYING of HUNTING DOGS... In the distance, the boy Wulf runs toward them, ducks behind a tree and clubs the leading dog with a branch. The other hounds close in... panting with exhaustion, Wulf swings into the branches. A hound savages his leg. The soldiers surround the tree. The boy clambers precariously onto the highest branch... Robin surrep- titiously steals a crossbow from one of the soldiers' horses. 
 You're not playing by    the rules, boy. Deer don't climb     trees... Perhaps he thinks he's    a game bird. Shall we teach     him to fly? Cut it down! The soldiers hack at the trunk.    The tree quivers. 
 Hold!... I am curious as to what manner of creature is so fearsome that it takes six men to attack it. Shrouded in his pilgrim's hooded cloak, he approaches them. (CONTINUED) 
 Stand back, stranger. This is no affair of yours. 
 Have we treed the devil himself? Let me see... Ah ha! A small boy. A truly dangerous animal. 
 I advise you to move on, pilgrim. This is the Sheriff's land. 
 Wrong. This is my land, and my tree. Therefore, whatever is in it also belongs to me. 
 I grow dangerously tired of your wit... Chop it down! 
 The man who strikes that tree dies. He glances nervously at Aslan, who's still at his prayers. The men stop in mid-swing. More surprised than scared. Gisborne gestures to the largest of them. 
 Chop down the hooded fool. 
 (backing up) Perhaps we could discuss this. 
 Kill him! 
 Aslan!   It's time to redeem that vow. 
 Set the dogs on him! (CONTINUED) 
 Aslan, get off your damn knees! I have four of them cornered. The Saracen remains head down. Or did we see him steal a glance? Gisborne signals his men to attack. A wave of flashing steel. 
 I hope there's enough of me to satisfy you all. Backed up to a tree, he grabs a branch and kicks out. Two men fly back. He lunges at a third. His sword strikes flesh. Robin sidesteps and hurls the fourth onto a sharp tree stump. Gisborne thrusts. Robin reacts too slowly.       Blood flows from his arm. His sword falls. 
 Aslan!! Gisborne is on him, sword pressed to his back.      Robin freezes. 
 Well, hooded stranger, allow me to know your name before I run you through. 
 Robin of Locksley! 
 On your knees, Gisborne.   Pray. He obeys.    Robin raises his sword. 
 Please, Locksley! No! Robin drives the point into Gisborne's rear.      The man leaps. (CONTINUED) 
 Now get off my land. And tell your cousin the Sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my people. Gisborne takes off, colliding with Aslan as he folds his rug. Reacts in shock at the sight of the strange Arab. Keeps running. 
 (to Aslan, furious) You worthless savage! You travel ten thousand miles to save my life, then leave me to be butchered. 
 I will fulfill my vow when I choose. 
 Which does not include prayer times, meal times, or any time I'm outnumbered six to one!! 
 You whine like a mule.   You are still alive. 
 Barely. Aslan examines Robin's wound.   Dismissive. 
 A flesh wound. Why did you let their leader go? 
 After six years of the stench of death, I have no stomach for needless blood on my hands. Wulf climbs cautiously from the tree. 
 Have no fear, boy. The boy nervously eyes Robin and the Saracen, fingering a crucifix around his neck. Runs off into the woods. 
 (laughing) The conquering hero returns. (CONTINUED) 
 Ha!   It was you he was scared of. Aslan's humor is infectious.     Robin's anger relents. 
 Come, my strange friend. Beyond that hill lies the prettiest little castle in all Christendom. Warm hearths, hot food, real beds. 
 With feather pillows? 
 With feather pillows. Warm and soft like Jasmina's embrace. 
 Father!    Hello! His VOICE ECHOES around the fallen battlements. Aslan places a hand on his shoulder and points... Suspended high on a tower wall is a decaying human corpse. 
 Noooooo! A paroxysm of rage and grief. He smashes furniture. Slams his fists relentlessly into the wall. Pained, Aslan looks on. 
 I should have been here. Spent, he leans against the wall. In the silence, they hear an eerie TAPPING. Robin draws his sword... A hunched, old man emerges, walking with the aid of a staff ... Duncan. (CONTINUED) 
 (shaking him) Damn you, Duncan. Why didn't you cut him down? DUNCAN Master Robin, is it you? A miracle. I thought God had abandoned us. 
 You left my father to hang like a common thief, carrion for the crows. 
 Easy... Look at him. Duncan steps into the moonlight.    His face crudely- scarred. 
 What has happened? DUNCAN They say they captured him worshipping with the Druids. He signed a confession before the Bishop of Hereford. 
 Did they have witnesses? DUNCAN Just one. Kenneth of Cowfall. The Bishop decreed all the Locksley lands forfeit. 
 Did you believe the charges? DUNCAN Not even when they took my eyes. 
 Who did this to you, Duncan? DUNCAN Guy of Gisborne. With the sheriff looking on. Robin holds the old retainer to his chest.    Stares into the night in silent rage. 
 Sir Guy. His Lordship is not to be disturbed. 
 Away, fool. He shoves the Sentry aside. 
 Who bade you cover up? He smashes his fist into his chair.   She timidly uncovers. 
 Cousin, I trust you justify your intrusion with news of profound value. His attention is riveted on a dark niche in the corner of the courtyard. UNEARTHLY SOUNDS emanate from the black- ness. 
 I met a hooded man today. He bade me warn you not to harm his people. 
 His name? 
 Robin of Locksley. (CONTINUED) 
 Ha! The prodigal son returns. He is a whelp. This girl could best him. 
 This whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye. 
 Your men were probably drunk.   Yet you survived, cousin? Heavy scorn. The sheriff pats Gisborne's hand like a child's. The voice from the darkness becomes a loud CHANT. A wrinkled, monkey-like figure dances INTO VIEW, wearing a necklace of human fingers. You might think she was a hundred years old, if not for her incredible agility. MORTIANNA. 
 (stunned) You brought her here? 
 Quiet! The crone's fingers dart into a bag. Emerge with a writhing, SQUEALING mass... a PIGLET. A knife flashes. Blood spurts into an ornate, sacred platter. The girl flinches in horror. Mortianna shakes the con- tents of a pouch across the bloody dish. Carved bone dice -- Runes. She rattles the platter. The rune symbols dance in trails of blood. Eyes vacant, mouth frothing, she hisses out her incoherent visions. Nottingham follows her every move. A connoisseur. 
 What do you see? 
 Change the seat of power. 
 London? 
 Change it. 
 Move the capitol to Nottingham? Excellent. How? (CONTINUED) 
 Ally with royal blood. 
 Put someone on the throne and rule through him? Who? 
 That is not revealed. The idea takes shape in Nottingham's mind.      Mounting intensity. 
 Ally with royal blood. What else do you see? 
 Armies. 
 Whose? 
 Yours. Men and weaponry in great numgers. 
 And victory? 
 Much blood will be spilled. 
 Whose? 
 Who have you seen?! She shakes him.    Screams spittle in his face. (CONTINUED) 
 (freaked) No one. I have seen no one. 
 You lie!     A man... A painted man. 
 What is wrong? 
 I have seen my death. She whimpers.   Spins, as if fearing invisible intruders. 
 The painted man. He haunts my dreams. 
 Locksley has a companion. A dark- skinned foreigner. He had the marked skin of Islam. Mortianna trembles like an epileptic.    Eyes wide with terror. 
 Kill them!     Kill them! She throws herself at Nottingham for protection.    He caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck. 
 Cousin. Prove to Locksley that your survival was his last mistake. 
 (frantic) And the painted man! Kill him. 
 Kill them both. He continues to stroke her.    Her trembling subsides. 
 You have done well, Mortianna. Exceedingly well. No one shall harm you, I swear it. Mortianna reaches out bloodied fingers towards the young girl, who shrinks away. Nottingham gently takes the girl's hand. (CONTINUED) 
 Now, my child, Mortianna's kisses will seem soft, like an angel's. (to Mortianna) Take her. You have earned her. Mortianna grabs the terrified girl's wrist.   Drags her away. 
 It is madness bringing the hag here. 
 Fear not for my sanity, Guy. For in madness, there is great power. 
 Our last words in this world were spoken in anger. He called the Crusades a foolish quest, said it was vanity to force other men to our religion. He was right. (looks to Aslan, then back to the grave) Please forgive me, Father. DUNCAN He loved you till the end, young master. He never gave up hope of your return. 
 I failed him. I should have been here at his side. DUNCAN You must leave, head north to safety. Gisborne will surely seek revenge. 
 Leave me. (CONTINUED) 
 Leave me. 
 Come, friend. He leads the old man away. CUT TO: 
 Like a rock. Duncan offers half the bread to the Saracen. DUNCAN A curse on the Saracens! Were it not for their ungodly ways, he would never have left. This would never have happened. 
 It surprises me that one who curses others so readily has lived so long. DUNCAN I do not recognize the style of your voice, friend. Are you Irish? A Cornishman? 
 Er... no. DUNCAN What manner of name is Aslan then? 
 A fine Saracen name. (CONTINUED) 
 Lord, yes. But eat in peace. I take no offense. (glances at Robin) By the prophet! What is the man doing? Robin raises his dagger over his wrist.   Aslan runs to him. 
 Wait! Too late. Robin slashes the dagger across his palm. Rain and blood mingle. Streaming onto the grave. 
 I swear by my own blood. I will not rest until I have restored my father's name. (a whisper) ... Or until I am dead. 
 We make a fine army, do we not, Duncan? A blind man, an Arab, and a fool. 
 A fine, wet army. I have never witnessed a storm of such duration. When does summer come to this land? 
 This is summer. 
 Then Allah truly is great. 
 Why, pray? (CONTINUED) 
 No food, no shelter,   and weather that would curse the   end of the earth. We  will all   quickly be dead, and I shall be   rid of my vow. They approach a stone wall, surrounding a thatched mansion. 
 You despair too soon, Aslan. We shall find food and shelter here among friends. 
 What is this place? 
 Peter's home. It is nearly seven years since we left here together. 
 No beggars! The hatch slams shut.    Robin pounds again. 
 Open up! 
 Tell the mistress of the house that Robin of Locksley is at her door. 
 Her ladyship is not at home. She slams the hatch again.    Robin jams in his hand. 
 Aagh! He shouts through the hatch, over his bruised fingers. (CONTINUED) 
 Is the child Marian at home? 
 Maybe she is. Maybe she isn't. Remove that hand. Robin refuses. She waits imperiously behind the locked door. Robin reluctantly withdraws his hand. Instantly the hatch slams. 
 The hospitality here is as warm as the weather. 
 Leave your weapons. The three start forward.       Her bony finger points at Robin. 
 Just you. 
 Wait here. He waits.    CREAKING FOOTSTEPS on the balcony. 
 Who are you? Dim lighting.    Robin cannot make out who it is. 
 I am Robin of Locksley. 
 You lie.     Robin is dead. 
 I may meet my maker soon from lack of sustenance. But for now I am real enough. (CONTINUED) 
 Step into the light.    Turn around. 
 By heaven, am I to dance next? Who are you? 
 I am the maid Marian. 
 Then show yourself, child.     For we knew each other well. 
 With the king away, these are lawless times. There are outlaws villainous enough to kidnap and ransom a relative of his. 
 You know I am not one of them. Besides, I am sworn to protect you. 
 (laughs) Protect me? Robin of Locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully. 
 Allow that years of war and prison may change a man. Step forward, Marian, so I may see how you have changed. 
 Er... the years have been kind. 
 Thank you. Now remove yourself from this household. A figure steps behind Robin.    Sticks a sword in his back. 
 (turning away) As you can see, we are already well protected. 
 Wait, Marian!    ...ouch! (CONTINUED) 
 You are truly courageous against an unarmed man. The figure gestures towards the door. Robin sidesteps. Slams an elbow. The sword drops. Slides across the floor. Robin moves for it, but the man intercepts, drawing a dagger. Robin darts to the wall. Rips off an antlered deer head. Defends himself as the attacker slashes at the horns. 
 As she was saying, we have no need of your protection. Robin croaks through clenched teeth. 
 Marian. CUT TO: 
 I trust Lord Locksley has recovered from his indisposition. Aslan laughs.   Robin glares. 
 Why would he wish me to be protected by the boy who burned my hair when I was a child? 
 We were together five terrible years in a Saracen prison. 
 How do I know you didn't abandon him there to save your own skin. Robin hands her Peter's ring.   She is shocked. 
 Marian, I'm sorry. 
 I will forward your condolences to my mother. She turns her back.   He searches for a way to reach her. 
 On my return, I found my father dead. The Sheriff denounced him as a Druid and took our lands. 
 The people fear the Druids so much they'd believe anything. Nottingham would have me burned at the stake as a witch if he thought he could possess my property. (CONTINUED) 
 Why do you not join your mother in London? You would be safer there. 
 I will not retreat.     Besides, I have no interest in    life at court. Gossip-mongering and    currying favor. Here I am my     own person. 
 The you must allow me to be your guardian. 
 I do not need a guardian. She turns to face him.   Streaming tears. 
 My brother is dead. You cannot take his place. Robin grabs and holds her. 
 Marian, I don't want to replace him. 
 What do you want? Their eyes meet... a sudden intimacy between them. Robin moves closer. Marian begins to respond, then pulls away. 
 This is wrong. She runs back to the house. Robin stares after her. Aslan appears in the doorway with Duncan. 
 Robin! The old man hears horses. Approaching fast. He runs to a bluff... a column of soldiers snakes up the hillside. 
 Twenty or more. In battle armor. 
 Soldiers coming here?     Is this your protection? (CONTINUED) 
 I killed some of the Sheriff's men. I fear I have placed you in danger. 
 I can take care of myself. There are horses in the stable. Go! Aslan runs into the stables. 
 I'm not leaving. Marian ices him with a glare. Aslan reappears, with two bareback horses. Soldiers appear on the crest, led by Gisborne... With a mischievous grin, Marian runs to the soldiers. 
 Stop them!   They're stealing my horses! 
 Damn the girl! Aslan, can you ride? In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the estate wall. 
 He can ride. He heads his horse at the wall. It stumbles. Barely clears it. Stones fly. Robin struggles to hold on. Marian stands directly in Gisborne's path. 
 You have been sheltering outlaws, Lady Marian. 
 They're thieves, you imbecile. Bring back my horses, or the Sheriff will know of your cowardice. Gisborne knows she is lying. (CONTINUED) 
 You're lucky he didn't steal your virtue too. (to his men) A crown to the man who brings me Locksley's head. He leads the pursuit.   A SOLDIER hangs back.   Grabs Marian's hair. 
 A kiss for me, Saxon bitch. 
 Kiss this! 
 Try me again, if you want to leave a hand behind. Shocked and pained, the man gallops away. Marian looks down at her dagger hand. It shakes violently. CUT TO: EXT. STREAM Water erupts under hooves. Aslan fords a stream. Duncan hangs on for dear life. Robin strives to keep up. Half a mile behind Gisborne splits up his men. Trying for a short cut, Robin finds himself at the steepest part of the river gorge. His horse balks at the drop. Robin flails at his mount with hands and feet. It backs away. 
 Damn you, animal! Aslan shouts from the far bank. 
 Treat it like a woman. Robin continues to hit his horse and hurl abuse. Closing in, the soldiers unfurl their crossbows. A flight of BOLTS WHISTLES ominously close to Robin. He must jump or die. 
 Have you never had a woman? Gently, man. Soothe it! (CONTINUED) 
 Of course I've had a woman! Come on, pretty one. He pats the horse soothingly.    The animal edges forward. 
 Softly.   With your knees. 
 I know!   I know! The soldiers reload.   Robin urges the horse at the steep drop. 
 Easy, easy. Another wave of crossbow bolts. Robin launches the frightened animal into space. Hooves flail... touch down. Scramble up the other bank. Robin enthusiastically pats the horse's neck. 
 I love you! The first two pursuers misjudge their leaps.     Their mounts land sprawling in the riverbed. 
 (yelling) Robin of the Hood! Son of the devil worshipper. 
 What is your pleasure, Gisborne? 
 It was I who strung your father's corpse to the castle gate. My pleasure will be in doing the same to you. 
 You survived one meeting.    Our next will be your last. 
 Your father died a coward, cursing your name and squealing like a stuck pig. 
 That's a lie! (CONTINUED) 
 (shouts) Come, Robin! He is trying to anger you into a trap. A shaft pierces the flank of Robin's horse. It rears in fright. Robin clings on. Six soldiers, the men Gisborne split off, are climbing the embankment towards him. Robin regains control. Rides right at them. Scatters them, and takes off again. Gisborne yells at his men to follow. 
 We have lost them. I'll lame this mare if I ask her to go any farther. He gently extracts the shaft from his horse. Aslan opens his pouch. Pulls out two shiny clear pebbles and a square leather hide. Rolls the pebbles into the tube and holds it to his eye. A primitive telescope. Robin watches, curious. 
 Through the scope we see the movement on the hill behind them. 
 Here they come. Look. Robin puts the device to his eye... 
 The soldiers are close! 
 Is this Arab magic? 
 No.    Arab science. He replaces the tube in his pouch. 
 How did your uneducated kind ever take Jerusalem? 
 God knows! 
 We can lose them in the forest. DUNCAN Sherwood is haunted, Master. 
 Either we take our chances with the ghosts, or become ghosts ourselves. He remounts. They race into the trees. Gisborne's men thunder up,... slowing as they enter the forest. Peering around them in trepidation, they slowly rein in. Robin looks back. 
 They're not following. 
 Come on, damn you! There are only three of them. 
 It's not the men we fear, sir. Eerie HOWLING and RATTLING of bones.    Aslan draws his sword. DUNCAN Banshees. They say they fly in your mouth and suck you dry of blood before you can scream. He wraps his scarf over his mouth. (CONTINUED) 
 Be quiet!    Listen. WIND GUSTS the trees in angry waves. Emits deathly SHRIEKS. The HORSES WHINNEY. Unnerved, Aslan smites around him with his scimitar. Wheels at the sounds, striking only air. 
 Allah protect us from the evil spirits. Duncan clings to his back.   Robin points. 
 Behind you! Aslan slashes out, futilely. 
 No, there!    And there! Aslan flails.   Robin cracks up. 
 Cease your mad laughing.     I can feel them. Robin reaches into the branches. Pulls out a string of hollowed wooden tubes -- WINDCHIMES. Dozens of such strings on all the trees. He blows over the hollow end. A low chilling MOAN. 
 Here are your ghosts, Duncan. A child's toy put to good use. You scare easily, my painted Saladin. His laughter is broken by a piercing YELL. A red- jacketed figure swings down out of a tree on a rope. Catapults him to the ground. The bushes are instantly alive. Shaggy, wild-eyed men, armed with cudgels, scythes and hayforks. Twelfth- century Hell's Angels. The red-jacketed young turk, WILL SCARLET, leaps around Robin. WILL SCARLET (singing) Ring around the rosie! 
 Aslan! Aslan makes no move to intervene. (CONTINUED) 
 I beg of no man. Which of you scum has guts enough to face me man to man? 
 (O.S.) Yeah, bollocks, mate. 
 What are ya, m'old cock? 
 Er... Robin... He pauses, checking the faces of the angry peasants. 
 ...Hood.   Robin Hood.   Who are you? 
 John Little.   Bestman o' the woods. 
 Bestman?   You lead this rabble? WILL SCARLET We waste time. Tax him. 
 Tax?   For what? WILL SCARLET For passage through Sherwood. 
 I will pay no tax. Besides, I have nothing but my cloak and my sword. (CONTINUED) 
 That is sacred to me. 
 Sacred to us too, mush. This here'll feed us for a bloomin' month. Robin draws his sword. 
 You will have to fight me for it. 
 I'd love to, mate. He grins hugely.   A boy pushes his way through the throng. 
 Wait, father!    I know him. 
 This man is your father? Tell him how I saved your hide from the Sheriff's soldiers. That deserves some gratitude, I believe. He reaches for the medallion.    John pulls it away. 
 Naw ya don't, laddie. WILL SCARLET You must be Robin of Locksley. The blackguard who abandoned us to Nottingham's plundering. (CONTINUED) 
 Be careful, Father. He fights like a demon. He walloped six o' Sheriff's men? 
 Is that so? Another grin. Licking his lips in anticipation, he lunges for Robin's wrist. Wrenches the sword free. Bends it into a pretzel. 
 Aslan! 
 And for the laughs. The woodsmen find this hysterical. They disappear into the tree. Will administers one final kick before leaving. Robin staggers to his feet. Glares furiously at Aslan. 
 Son of an Arab whore! Once again your assistance was invaluable. 
 You seemed more in danger of losing your pride than your life. DUNCAN I recognized some of the voices. Many were from your father's farms. 
 Your avenging army, my friend. 
 That rabble? 
 All they need is a leader. (CONTINUED) 
 They have a leader.   A very large one. 
 Defeat him and they will follow you. 
 Allah has taken your brains. DUNCAN I hear the voice of a spoiled child, Master Robin. I suggest you cease your brave talk of revenge and flee to the north. 
 You, too? You expect me to fight that behemoth? DUNCAN Your father would expect you to act like a man. CUT TO: EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY A large tree trunk spans a swift-flowing river. The ragged band of woodsmen approach the makeshift bridge. Stop in their tracks. Robin stands on the bridge, brandishing a long wooden staff. 
 This is my bridge. No one crosses without paying tax. 
 Just bugger off, mate, huh? 
 If you wish to cross, it will cost you a gold medallion. 
 Ain't I hurt you a bloody nuff for one day? WILL SCARLET If he's in a hurry to end his mortal misery, help him. (CONTINUED) 
 You don't have the courage to face me again, John Little? Or should I call you 'Little John'? John grabs a hefty, gnarled staff.   Strides to the bridge. 
 Alright, m'old cock. You wanna nuther good wallopin'? His confidence melting, Robin glances back at Duncan and Aslan, who grins like a fan at a boxing match. John storms at Robin. Staffs thrash. Driven back, Robin connects a blow on John's foot. The giant is off-balance. Robin follows up. Lands a couple to the ribs. John responds with heavy swings, which Robin blocks deftly. Back and forth, blow for blow, all blocked. John chuckles with every swing. Enjoying the time of his life. Their staffs lock. It's strength against strength. Robin is no match. With one mighty thrust, John hurtles him into the stream. The woodsmen cheer loudly. Aslan watches impassively. Robin scrambles back onto the bridge.   John waits, grinning. 
 Lil' wet behind the ears, mate? WILL SCARLET Don't fool with him. Get him! 
 Swimmin' time again, ol' chum. The coup de grace. Lands heavily. Robin teeters. Falls. Disappears under the foaming water... does not re-emerge. John waits. The spectators rush to the bank. No sign. (CONTINUED) 
 Bloomin' shame. 'E were a brave 'un. Suddenly Robin arcs up out of the water. His hands clamp onto John's ankles. Robin heaves with all his might. John topples headfirst into the water. Surfaces in panic. 
 Help!   Cain't bloody swim. He submerges again.   Robin pulls his head above water. 
 Do you yield? 
 Do you yield? 
 Yes! 
 Good.   Now put your feet down. John struggles, then his feet hit bottom... The water only reaches his chest. 
 I'll be buggered. 
 Pay me the tax. A tense pause while all wait for Little's reaction. 
 Robin Hood, ya got balls o' solid rock. He hands Robin back the medallion. Chuckling loudly, he swoops Robin up in his arms and carries him to the bank. 
 Mead.   Made it m'self. (CONTINUED) 
 (drinks) A fine brew, Little John. He spits black objects from his mouth.      Dead bees.   John grins. 
 Real honey. He takes the jug back. Sneezes royally, spewing all over the brew. Oblivious, he hands the contaminated jug to Aslan. 
 With regrets, I decline. 
 An Englishman's mead not bleedin' good enough for ya? 
 On the contrary. I thank you, but my faith prevents me from partaking in such enjoyments. 
 Your bloody loss, mate. He swigs.    Passes the jug on to Duncan, who drinks heartily.    Wulf cautiously approaches Robin. 
 What is it, boy? Speak up! 
 I wanna thankee, Lord Locksley. I owes ya m'life. 
 You owe me nothing, Wulf. I am glad I chanced by in time to help. 
 C'mon, lad, drink! 'Twill put hair on your bloomin' chest. Wulf tries the brew. The impact is instant.       He turns green and runs. His father cracks up. 
 Tell me about your men, John. John points to a short fellow with the build of a tree trunk. (CONTINUED) 
 This stumpy one 'ere's David o' Doncaster. We calls 'im Bull. 
 How do you come by the name, Bull? 
 'Cuz o' my size, Sire. 
 Because you are short? 
 Nay.   'Cuz I be so long. 
 No, Bull.    Save it for the ladies. Drunken laughter.    Robin turns to the next man at the fireside. 
 Your name, friend? The man's bald pate blushes scarlet as he tries to respond, but he stutters too badly to get out a comprehensible word. 
 That be Hal Brownwell, but the lads call i'm Hal Hiccup. The others make hiccup and belching sounds, and crack up at Hal's embarrassment. Hal strikes out angrily at his tormentors. 
 Hold! Hal, you have the face and hands of a farmer. I wager you are a strong and honest man, and I'd be glad to have you at my side in a fight. The next man who makes light of you will have to answer to me. There is murmuring around the group, but no one elects to try it. 
 How is it there are so many of you in hiding? (CONTINUED) 
 We're outlaws. Got prices on our 'eads, every man jack. Blasted Sheriff says we owes 'im taxes. 
 How do you fare? 
 We get by, I reckon. 
 While the Sheriff steals your land and your families starve? 
 What in bloody blazes'd ya have us do? 
 Your ghosts will only keep his men at bay so long, my friend. Soon the Sheriff will hunt you down and hang you. You must fight back. 
 We show as much as a toe outside the forest, they'll slaughter us like bleedin' sheep. 
 We must organize. Win by guile. 
 'We'? Ya lookin' to join us, matie? 
 No.   To lead you. WILL SCARLET Ha! I would never be led by the son of a Druid. 
 There are many here who knew my father to be a kind and generous man. I doubt that in their hearts they believe him capable of such a horror. Murmurs of agreement from around the fire.    Robin turns to Will. (CONTINUED) 52. 
 What is your name, friend? WILL SCARLET Count me not a friend, Locksley. 
 Stuff a flippin' cork in it, Will. The man's our guest. Will gets up.   Angrily pushes his way out of the group. 
 That there's Will Scarlet. Pay 'im no 'eed. 'E's full o' piss and wind. 
 He is right to distrust me. I am a rich man's son. I have done no honest labor. But today I am as poor as any of you. Nottingham has stolen all that I own. And when I killed Gisborne's men, I, too, became an outlaw. 
 Ya're full o'bloody wind an' all, mate. This 'ere load o' rubbish agin the Sheriff's bloomin' army? Ya must be bloody jokin'. 
 We can win.   And I believe we will. 
 Ya're a daft bugger, Robin Hood, but ya're a brave 'un, I'll give ya that. Drink up, laddie, cuz tomorrow ya mayn't be so lucky! Tomorrow I shall best ya an' crack that blasted noble head in two. Laughing loudly, he throws back his head for a long draught of mead. 
 (gloomily) I have led you wrong. This is no army. These men live like dogs. 
 English dogs.    They can learn. 
 Learn what?   To build kennels? He sullenly stalks away. Robin shakes his head. Aslan is right. He rouses Duncan, who is asleep at his side. The old man groans awake, holding his head. Seriously hung-over. 
 Too much mead, old friend.    What day is it? DUNCAN Sunday, I believe. 
 Good. Do they still give alms to the poor at the mass? DUNCAN They do. These days the need for mercy is greater than ever. 
 Then I must ask you a favor. EXT. ROAD TO NOTTINGHAM - DAY 
 Hey, you! Robin keeps going.   A hand clasps his shoulder.    Spins him 'round. (CONTINUED) 
 Do I know you? Robin gazes into space, trying to look blind.   The Guard sniffs his soiled hand. 
 My God, you stink! 
 Pardon my blindness, sir.    I'm always falling down. 
 Yeech!   Get away from me. 
 We beseech thy blessing, Lord, on all your people, but most especially on our noble Lord Nottingham. Grant him the wisdom to guide and protect our glorious city. Nottingham and Gisborne sit piously among the congrega- tion of nobles and wealthy merchants. 
 Grant him also the strength to bring to justice the lawless men who threaten its safety. Help him to stamp out the curse of the dread Druids who would seize from us our children, even as wolves steal the lambs from their mothers. The rear of the church. Standing crushed together, the poor and afflicted. Old and young. Starving children. Among them, Robin. The sermon ends. As the nobles file out, the poor are galvanized. Begging hands reach out. (CONTINUED) 
 Alms for a blind man. For one who cannot see your beauty. 
 (recognizing him) This is dangerous. 
 So you care for my safety? 
 No, for mine. I do not wish to be seen with an outlaw. 
 Under the Sheriff's law, that's a badge of pride. 
 He's put a price on your head. 
 How much? 
 A hundred gold pieces. 
 Is that all? I have not annoyed him enough. Soon he will offer ten thousand. 
 For ten thousand I would turn you in myself. (glances back at the Sheriff) Nottingham is mounting an army. 
 How do you know? (CONTINUED) 
 He has rounded up every blacksmith in the county. He has them holed up in the castle making swords and armor. 
 What is he planning? 
 I don't know, but there's no limit to the man's ambitions. (as Sheriff heads towards them) Go! 
 If you need me, I will be with the woodsmen. Send for me as 'Robin Hood.' 
 Robin!   Do something for me. 
 What? 
 Take a bath. 
 Care to join me? With a grin, he slips into the crowd as Nottingham arrives. 
 You shine like the sun, my lady. He raises her hand, as he did the girl's in the castle. Kisses it. 
 You have been meeting with young Robin of Locksley. (as she tries to hide her shock) My cousin tells me the knave deprived you of some horses. 
 (recovering) Yes. A most disagreeable experience. (CONTINUED) 
 I deeply regret it, and I promise you he will be brought to justice. For subjecting you to such treatment, I will hang him from the walls with his own entrails. That gleam of insanity.   Robin watches from a distance. 
 I would like to see that, my lord. The Sheriff places his hand possessively on her shoulder. 
 My dear, a woman of your refinement is not safe living alone. If you would consent to bring your household within the city walls, I could give your needs my most personal attention. 
 I thank you, Lord Nottingham, from the heart, but for now I prefer to stay in my family's ancestral home. My cousin, King Richard, will be deeply moved to hear of your concern for my welfare. 
 Alas, the King has many enemies both abroad and at home. I fear for his safe return. 
 Fear not, my dear Sheriff. He will return. When he does, he will wish to reward his faithful subjects. The Sheriff smiles sourly and takes his leave. Marian deflates with relief. The Sheriff walks alone towards a side door. 
 (Robin) Alms, my lord. Nottingham makes to shove the man aside. With a swift move, the beggar grabs the Sheriff in a headlock. Slides Nottingham's own dagger to his throat and drags him out of sight. (CONTINUED) 
 A hundred crowns, Sheriff?   You insult me. Nottingham starts to struggle.   Robin draws blood. 
 Remember young Robin of Locksley, Sheriff? Meet Robin Hood. Your nemesis. Your avenging angel. 
 If you kill me, you will hang. 
 If I kill you, I will hang happy. 
 What do you want? 
 I want to give you a chance. A chance you do not deserve. A chance to right your wrongs. 
 I'm listening. 
 From this day forward you will cease to tax my people. You will renounce the charges against my father, and you will return his lands to me. 
 Why should I? 
 Because for every harm you do, I swear by God I shall visit on you threefold in return. 
 Empty words. 
 I am here with a blade at your throat. As long as I live, you will always know that I could be here again. A YELL from across the church. Gisborne has spotted them. Robin digs the knife a little deeper. (CONTINUED) 
 Your answer? 
 Never, fool. 
 Then it will begin.. Gisborne yells orders.   Robin hurls Nottingham against the wall. 
 (innocently) Please excuse my clumsiness. Robin charges for the city gate. As he passes, he kicks the guard who hasseled him into the wall. 
 A personal loan from the Sheriff. 
 (furious) You should not have left without me, Englishman. 
 How so? You have not raised a finger to protect me. 
 Before I had a choice. 
 It was my choice to do this alone. (CONTINUED) 
 A foolish risk. If you had been killed, I would be cursed for eternity for failing to fulfil my pledge. 
 Aslan, if I didn't know better, I would swear you were worried about me. 
 Starve them out. Slaughter their livestock. I want to see Locksley's own people fighting each other to bring him to us. 
 I swear he will not live to see the next full moon. 
 Go' bless ya, sir. Leave us the sow. She's with young 'uns. The next litter'll feed us through the winter. 
 You've heard of Robin Hood? 
 Yes, sir. The Soldier brutally kicks the old man to the ground. 
 Then pray he is brought to us before winter. 
 Sheriff hasn't left us a bloody pot to piss in. 
 Then we shall take from him and his rich friends. 
 Will, do you think the Sheriff will give everything back after I am gone? WILL SCARLET He will give us the reward, and our pardons. 
 Alright, Will. You can take me in on one condition. You must fight me. You may use the Sheriff's horse and arm yourself as you please. I will fight on foot. Unarmed. WILL SCARLET Unarmed? 
 If you lose, you will accept me as your leader. If you win, you may take me in. Dead or alive. WILL SCARLET Dead, Locksley. CUT TO: 
 This man has true purpose.    He means to kill you. DUNCAN And you have given him the means. 
 Will is ruthless, Robin.    Guard your back. 
 I am grateful for your concern, friends, but I have to prove to them it is possible to overcome unequal odds. (shouts) I am ready, Will. Will bends, as if checking the horse's legs. Secretly grabs a handful of sand. Swings into the saddle and digs in his heels. Closing in, Will flings the sand in Robin's eyes. Robin clutches his hands to his face, blinded. Will spins back to the attack. His sword slashes. Reacting to the sound, Robin rolls aside. The men cheer like a big fight crowd. 
 Come on, you little piss pot. Do your worst! Will grabs a spear from a bystander. Robin stands his ground. Will lunges, Robin sidesteps. 
 The horse is smarter than you are, Will. Some of the men laugh. Will is incensed. Robin ducks and weaves, easily evading Will's repeated charges. Robin ducks right under the horse's belly. 
 Here, Will!   You aim like a girl, Will! Will stabs wildly, more and more frustrated. Laughter spreads, as Robin plays hide and seek around the horse's legs. Grabbing the end of the spear, he clowns a tug of war. Enraged, Will strains and tries to kick Robin away. Suddenly, Robin lets go. Unbalanced, Will flies back- wards off his mount. Robin snatches the spear and raises it over his fallen adversary. The crowd falls silent. Robin strikes. The point quivers in the ground below Will's crotch. Will wriggles in terror. Impaled, his pants rip open. 
 Thank the Lord you are not endowed like Bull. 
 Bollocks, Will. Jus' bugger off, eh? Overpowered, Will relents.   With a defiant glance, he skulks away. 
 Ya got us by the short and curlies, Robin Hood. Now let's hear what ya got to bleedin' say. (CONTINUED) 
 Nottingham has taken from us everything we own. Now we are going to start taking from him. 
 'Ow in bloody blazes are we gonna do that? 
 We are going to tax him. DISSOLVE TO: 
 Here they come. 
 How many? 
 Two wagons.   Twenty escort. 
 Twenty?   They usually have five. He grabs the telescope. 
 A phalanx of   mounted soldiers, a cart loaded with barrels, and   a tax wagon. The wagon is an armored box on wheels, with   crossbow slits in the side. Guy of Gisborne commands the   escort. BACK TO SCENE 
 This is no ordinary convoy. Bull calls up from below, where a ragged group of woods- men lies nervously in ambush. 
 'ow many? (CONTINUED) 
 Er, about ten. (then, to Aslan) Why scare them? They can't count anyway. 
 And they call me the barbarian. 
 Let's go. Together they run down the hill, keeping low. Gisborne eyes the forest. The beer cart is steered by a fat red-faced FRIAR, raucously singing hymns and quaffing from a jug, which he repeatedly dips into one of the barrels. ARROWS WHISTLE in. The Friar yells and drops his jug. A soldier is hit. At the forest edge, four woodsmen reload their longbows. Dressed in green, their faces camouflaged. The mounted soldiers charge them. The  woodsmen run into the trees. As the horsemen close in,  the runners leap into a trench. Lift up matted screens  of brush and grass. It's as if they disappeared.   The soldiers slash wildly at the thick screens. More arrows fly. More soldiers fall. The others spin in confusion, trying to discern the enemy. More woods- men break from cover. Run down a narrow path. Gisborne urges his men to pursue. They ride in single file, beating their way through the tangled branches. 
 Surrender your weapons. I give you my word you shall go free. In answer, a swordblade jabs up through the roof, near his feet. 
 Ah, I feared as much. He signals to Aslan, who steers the tax wagon into the river. Water floods in through the slits. Inside, panic. Drowning rats. The bowmen scramble out. What they see stops them dead. Both banks are men in green, longbows aimed directly at them. CUT TO: 
 Sparks. An axe pounds into the lock of a strongbox. The lock snaps. Little John pries open the lid. Reacts in astonishment. The trunk is filled to the brim with glittering gold coins. The woodsmen press around. Cheers of celebration. 
 (awestruck) I'll be buggered. 
 This treasure had a purpose.     We must find out what. He turns at the sound of a brawl from the Friar's cart. The Friar is at the bottom of a struggling heap of bodies. 
 Get off him.   He's a man of the cloth. Robin drags the men off. The Friar clambers to his feet. Around him are strewn battered and winded woodsmen. (CONTINUED) 
 The Lord's blessing on you, kind sir. These sinners were attempting to steal these libations destined for the monks of St. Catherine's. He indicates his cargo of barrels. 
 It appears to me, Reverend Friar, that many of the libations have found their way into your own esteemed person. Ignoring him, the Friar mounts the cart. 
 A thousand pardons, sir, but duty beckons. I must hasten on. 
 (grabbing the bridle) A moment, my reverend friend. You travel with poor company when you travel with Nottingham's soldiers. 
 Aye, tax him. This sparks a chorus of comments. 
 My men are thirsty and have much to celebrate. 
 Lord bless me, sir, are these your men? I had mistook them for common thieves. Kindly step aside. 
 Surely the Lord has the charity to spare a few barrels to good Christian men. The Friar relents, loosening his grip on the reins. 
 Well, sir, if you wish them to share in the good Lord's brew... Casually reaching under the seat, he pulls out a club. Smites Robin with it. (CONTINUED) 
 ... you must best me for it. Robin staggers. The Friar whips up the horse. Dazed, Robin grabs for the fat man's leg. Gets a holy sandal full in the face. 
 Giddyup, nag! The Friar's horse, as obese as his driver, slowly raises his head from the grass and ambles forward. Robin runs after them and dives at the Friar, toppling him from the cart. 
 You leave when I say. Scrambling to his feet, the Friar glances skyward. 
 Protect me, Lord. He sweeps his foot, knocking Robin's legs out from under him. Hurls his full body weight on top of him. Whooomf! 
 Yield! He bounces on Robin's stomach. Robin can barely breathe. The woodsmen are enjoying the spectacle. 
 Confess that Friar Tuck is a better, holier, and braver man than thou art, knave. 
 Never!   Whoomf! 
 Yield, I say!    Yield to Friar Tuck. Desperate, Robin bites the Friar's leg. Tuck howls. Robin extricates himself, grabs for a weapon. Smashes the Friar's head with his drinking jug. 
 Yield yourself! He dives onto the Friar and hammers his head into the ground. (CONTINUED) 
 Yield to Robin Hood. Tuck holds up a hand in surrender.    Robin eases off. 
 (feeling his head) Thank you, Lord, for teaching me humility. 
 Well, Friar Tuck. We have need of an honest man of God, to minister to these men and their families. What do you say? 
 I'd rather roast in hell. He punches Robin in the gut. CUT TO: 
 strapped into the traces, pulls the beer cart. Sweating profusely, grunting with strain. His horse contentedly follows. 
 Giddyup, Friar. 
 What do you say now, Tuck?    Here are the meek of the earth. Tuck surveys the hopeful, hungry faces. The little hamlet of half-built huts. He folds his hands in a moment of prayer. 
 The Lord moves in mysterious ways. I accept. (CONTINUED) 
 You will not regret it. 
 Aye, but you may. CUT TO: EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP A blazing fire. Deer carcasses roast. Tuck's barrels supply the refreshment. Robin and Aslan pass out coins to each family. 
 Buy yourself a new son, Stephen. 
 Thankee, Robin. Little John and Bull approach. John indicates the two prisoners roped to a nearby tree. 
 Cain't get a bleedin' squeak outa 'em, Rob. 
 They'd be spittin' it out good if they'd knowed anythin'. 
 Reckon the Cap'n knows summat, Rob, but stubborn ol' cocker 'e is. 
 Perhaps it is time for some heathen persuasion. CUT TO: CAPTAIN OF SOLDIERS stares up at Robin defiantly. 
 Spare your breath. I know nothing. 
 (reasonable) I believe you. But this Arab here, he's got it into his barbarian brain that you know a whole lot more than nothing. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 ROBIN (CONT'D) And when he gets like this, he's very hard to reason with. With a hair-raising war cry, Aslan   leaps INTO VIEW. Stripped to the waist, brandishing   his scimitar. The Captain tries to back away. Robin    tries to restrain Aslan, is hurled aside. Snarling,    drooling at the mouth, Aslan explores the Captain's body   with his hands. A butcher checking meat. 
 I strongly advise you to talk. He hasn't eaten in weeks. 
 (rising terror) What does he want? 
 You. 
 For Godsakes, get him off me! 
 (very deliberately) No, Aslan... not this one, Aslan. ... How about this other one?... Fatter, yes... more meat. The other soldier, who definitely  has more flesh on the bone, is struck dumb with horror,  as Aslan turns his attention to him. With one swing   of his sword, Aslan slices through the man's ropes.   Drags him to his feet. Little John runs over. 
 (urgent) No, Robin, no! They be God-fearin' men. 
 I cannot stop him, John. Besides, if they will not tell what they know, then they must pay the price. 
 Kill 'em aye, but not like this. 'Tain't Christian. Blood-curdling SCREAMS from behind the wagon where Aslan has dragged his victim. The Captain's face pales. Then silence. (CONTINUED) 
 What does he say? 
 Well, roughly, he says that he doesn't care for the way your friend tastes, and he wants you. 
 No, God, no! I'll talk. Just keep him away. Keep him away! 
 Bull holds the other prisoner, muffling the man's mouth and trying to suppress his own laughter. Beside them lies a large chunk of venison. The man is unharmed, except that he's missing a glove. 
 Sure changed the color of 'is britches, didn't 'e? 
 Thanks to our cannibal friend. Aslan repeats his wildman act, munching on a chunk of venison. 
 Gonna laugh my bloody balls off. 
 Why'd the Sheriff be sendin' gold north o' the border? 
 To hire mercenaries. The Celts are savage tribesmen, trained to kill from birth. (CONTINUED) 
 Aye, the Romans built a bleedin' great wall to keep 'em out. 
 What does 'e want wi 'em? 
 Since he also has every Smith in the country working in his castle, we can assume he is planning a little war. 
 Agin' who? 
 England. 
 We were ambushed. In Sherwood Forest. Nottingham tests the sword against an anvil. 
 Spanish steel, cousin. So much stronger than our native blades. Any losses? 
 All the men are gone. 
 Yet again you are the sole survivor, cousin? Interesting. And the gold? 
 Well, it er... disappeared. (CONTINUED) 
 Robin Hood? 
 They were woodsmen, dressed in green. 
 Robin Hood. He places a hand reassuringly on his cousin's shoulder. 
 Cousin, we must be strong. We cannot allow this outlaw to make fools of us. Without warning, he drives the blade into Gisborne's belly. 
 And I cannot allow a lieutenant to fail me. (turning to the horrified smithy) It is indeed fine steel. 
 God bless you, sir. 
 An' Go' bless Robin 'Ood, friar. They says as 'ow none o' the Sheriff's cronies dare go within miles o' Sherwood for fear o' havin' their pockets pinched. 
 Ah, the good Lord giveth and the good Lord taketh away. 
 Unless Robin Hood takes it first! (CONTINUED) 
 Good morrow, brothers. 
 (to Robin) How dare you! 
 Good morning, Lady Marian. In response, she starts pelting him with stones. 
 You send men to drag me from my home in the middle of the night, like some slave girl? Is this the way the famous Robin Hood treats a lady? 
 Ah well... er, let me finish this bath you wished me to take. Then I'll explain. 
 I demand an explanation right now! 
 If you will be patient, I could spare your propriety by... 
 I will decide when my propriety is compromised. 
 As you wish. (CONTINUED) 
 How dare you expose yourself to me?! She slugs him. Robin stumbles backwards into the water. Bull grins, gesturing to Sarah and pointing to his own black eye. 
 The big 'un did the same to me. 
 (to Wulf) Right m'lad. Let's see how close you can git to that bugger. Wulf takes aim. His arrow slices clear through his father's arrow, splitting it in two. Little John slaps Wulf on the back and beckons everyone over. 
 Take a gander at this 'un, mates. Never seen nuthin' like it in my bloomin' life. 
 This better be damned important. Robin leads her into a hut. Inside is a trove of cap- tured loot -- purses, jewelry, weaponry, fancy coats and... the treasure chest. At Robin's nod, Bull throws back the lid. Marian is speechless. 
 Nottingham robs the poor. We rob Nottingham and give back to the poor. (CONTINUED) 
 Do you think he's going to let you get away with all this? The man is without mercy. He will annihilate you. 
 Somebody has to take a stand. 
 You're taking a stand with the lives of these people. These young ones. A beat. She checks the faces. Her eyes meet Robin's. Is there a hint of concern for him also? 
 What do you want from me? 
 Nottingham was sending this gold to buy reinforcements from the Celtic tribesmen. We need to warn King Richard. 
 Nottingham would not dare challenge the King. 
 The King is not in England to be challenged, is he? While he is away, he may lose his country. (Marian masks her concern) You are Richard's cousin. You can get word to him. He would believe you. 
 Now you want me to participate in your folly? A little girl approaches, holding a bouquet of wild flowers. Touched, Marian kneels to accept the offering. CUT TO: 
 protrudes from Marian's saddle. She is mounted, ready to go. Sarah giggles as she takes her leave of Bull. (CONTINUED) 
 (to Marian) I am sending Duncan with you. Give him some warm food and a real bed. I grow tired of his bellyaching. DUNCAN Hah! I have endured more hardship in my lifetime than any man here. Robin laughs and speaks to Marian in a stage whisper. 
 Don't tell him I told you, but he may be useful to you. There is no one to whom I would rather entrust your safety. 
 Duncan, you are most welcome. Taking the lead rein from Duncan's horse, she rides away. 
 (calls after her) Will you send word to the King? 
 I'll think about it. 
 It is a personal matter, my Lord, but one of vital importance. 
 I understand, my dear lady. This is my most trusted emissary. He hands the letter to a solemn courier. (CONTINUED) 
 You will travel to France immediately. You must give this directly into the hands of the King, and him alone. The courier bows in acknowledgement.    Marian indicates Sarah. 
 My lady-in-waiting will accompany you. Surprised, the courier glances at the Bishop. 
 My dear, I could not vouch for her safety. The journey is fraught with danger. 
 I appreciate your concern, my Lord, but Sarah is an accomplished rider. I must insist that she goes along. 
 (a beat) As you wish. 
 We have to be ready to move camp at any time. The only way we can be attacked is from the Nottingham Road. We hide lookouts in the trees, here and here. If they see soldiers, they shoot warning arrows. Whistles by day, fire by night. Wulf runs up to Little John in panic. 
 Father!   Come quick.   Mother's dying. 
 The child comes early. Fanny screams.   John kneels beside her, taking her head. 
 Hush, m'lass.    Ya'll be fine. 
 'S not like t'others, John.    Oh God, it pains me so. 
 (angrily, to Tuck) Ya're sittin' thar like a fat sow. Help her, man, help her! 
 I am doing all I can. Aslan appears in the doorway, with Robin. Whips back the blanket. Fanny's chest is covered with black squirming creatures. 
 By Allah, leeches! He starts to pull the parasites off.    Tuck jumps at him. 
 Get away from her! Aslan pushes him away, continuing his work. 
 Blood is like air. If she loses blood, she and the child will die. John is paralyzed with confusion.    Tuck appeals to Robin. 
 He lies. He is the devil's seed, sent to lead us astray. 
 Fool, both the Bible and the Koran instruct us to preserve life. Tuck raises an arm to strike Aslan. Robin blocks the blow. Aslan gently touches the mother's stomach. (CONTINUED) 
 (soothing) Your baby has not turned. It cannot be born without help. 
 What do you know, you damned savage? 
 (to John) If you will allow me, I can help her. It will not be without danger. 
 Do not listen to him!   He will kill her. 
 If you do not listen to me, she will certainly die. And the child, too. Fanny cries out.   John looks to Robin, pleading for advice. 
 The good Friar has done all he can. I suggest you let the Arab try. (as John is undecided) If I am wrong, and they die, then you may take my life. 
 So be it. 
 Then it will be on your head. I have warned you. He storms out.   All business, Aslan speaks to Wulf. 
 Bring me a needle, thread, water, a skinning knife, and burning ashes. Wulf runs to obey. John looks horrified. Robin eases him outside, then returns to Aslan's side. They whisper. (CONTINUED) 
 What are you going to do? 
 The child must be taken out by the knife. 
 The knife? 
 I have seen it many times with horses. 
 Horses? By the Lord, what are her chances? 
 After wasting so much blood... not good. 
 Now you tell me! Wulf runs back in.     Aslan holds up a piece of wood. 
 (to Fanny) Are you ready?... Bite down on this... Robin, hold her steady. He lifts the red-hot knife from the ashes. 
 I tell you, the barbarian is killing her. John moves to the hut.     Wulf restrains him. 
 Is she gone? (CONTINUED) 
 What did you say? Aslan holds up a bloody struggling infant. 
 It is a boy. The mother revives.   Aslan places the child on her breast. 
 Your son, my lady... Robin, hold her skin together while I sew her up. He picks up the needle and thread.   Robin's eyes turn to the woman's abdomen... He faints. CUT TO: 
 marches among the cheering families, holding his newborn child high for all to see. Tuck sits miserably to one side. Bloody and  exhausted, Aslan appears at the hut door. Tuck jumps  to his feet, drawing his knife. Heads turn. Tense silence. Robin appears, unsteadily, behind Aslan. Watches, ready to intervene. Tuck stares at Aslan. Raises his blade... and slices down across his own wrist. 
 This day God has taught me a fine lesson. He hands Aslan the knife and extends his bloodied wrist. 
 I would be honored. Aslan slices his own wrist. The two wrists clasp together in the universal sign of brotherhood. Everyone cheers. 
 You are a good man, my barbarian friend. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 FRIAR (CONT'D) We shall open a barrel together and I shall do my damndest to save your heathen soul. 
 Alas, I am not permitted... 
 Our God made this brew, brother. I merely combined the ingredients. Do you dare to insult his works? 
 What is wrong? 
 My horse seems to be favoring a foreleg. Sarah leans down to look and the courier cudgels her across the neck. She falls from the saddle, unconscious. 
 Who is there?     Duncan! 
 Off, Nicodemus. Go find mice. She sighs with relief... is grabbed from behind.   A masked SOLDIER. (CONTINUED) 
 We meet again. He reveals a large scar on his wrist -- removes his mask -- the man who attacked her earlier. He prods her with his sword. 
 Drop your blade. 
 You are still overmatched, soldier. She drops the sword. He hurls her against the table. Lays his blade against her chest. 
 You owe me favors, wench. Bare your breasts... or I will do it for you. Resignedly, she raises a hand to loosen the string on her dress. With the other hand she reaches behind her, grabs a pepper bowl. Flips the contents into his face. Screaming, he grabs his  face. She reaches for her dagger. He slashes with   his sword. She backs to the fireplace, grabs a spit  of roasted chickens... drives the point clean through  his chest. He stares in shock at his own blood pouring from the cooked fowls pinned to his breast... FOOTSTEPS... masked soldiers converge from both sides of the house, dragging the servants. Duncan  is shoved through the door. DUNCAN I am sorry, my lady.    There were too many. She stares at the invaders with studied calm. 
 Is there something you need, gentlemen? I remember no masked ball on my calendar. CUT TO: 
 Forget about Locksley. He is no threat. 
 How can we control all England if we cannot control our own county? The people are turning him into a hero. 
 It is impossible to attack him in the forest. We have tried everything. He is cunning. 
 Then we   will be more cunning. I must be   rid of him. We may not be able   to intercept his next warning   to the King. Sounds of COMMOTION outside. The door swings open. Framed in the doorway is a colossus in black armor. His helmet is the head of a dragon. He slowly raises the visor. Deep tribal scars on his cheeks. Implacable ferocity in his eyes. 
 I want the heads of the men who stole my gold. 
 Welcome, sir. We were discussing how to rid ourselves of those very men. The outlaws who band with Robin Hood. 
 My Lord Nottingham, I must protest. It is a mistake to ally ourselves with foreigners. 
 What can these Celts do that we cannot? (CONTINUED) 
 This rat Hood has hidden out in the forest.  He resists all our assaults with traps and devices, while he robs us blind. We must bring him out and destroy him. The rat has scurried into the shelter of the model trees. The Chieftain watches impassively, then calmly touches the log to the model. The trees ignite... the RAT SQUEALS in terror and runs. The Chieftain cuts off its escape, setting fire to more trees... again... and again. The Sheriff watches the flames, fascinated. DISSOLVE TO: 
 Come, you son of Saladin. A toast to all of Jehovah's children. The saved and the damned. 
 This must be a truly evil potion, to make the soul feel this good. He downs the entire jug in one long draught.   Refills it. 
 Come, holy man. A toast to all of Allah's children. The true believers and the fat infidels. Tuck laughs and drinks. Aslan sways and topples at the Friar's feet. Heaves up all over the holy sandals. Tuck looks at Robin. (CONTINUED) 
 How can these Arabs hold Jerusalem when they can't even hold their brew? DISSOLVE TO: 
 The dancing demon! Good morning. 
 (wincing) If it was Jehovah who created this brew, he is truly wise. He built the punishment into the crime. An ARROW WHISTLES into a tree.    Robin reacts. 
 They need help. 
 A bloke wearin' a mask o' the Druids rode by. Tossed 'im down. 
 Are you sure it was a Druid mask? (as Bull nods) Damn them to hell! They must have Marian. Do you know where they meet? (CONTINUED) 
 The Gregor Caves, I 'eard tell. 
 We will go there. 
 No! You stay here, dammit!    I will go alone. 
 You forget yourself.   I am not your servant. 
 Then be my friend. There are women and children here in greater need of your courage. 
 (considers) Take my eyes, then. He hands Robin his telescope. CUT TO: 
 (under his breath) Marian! (CONTINUED) 
 (O.S.) Robin!... Robin! 
 Death is not to be feared, Robin. Embrace it. Her LAUGH ECHOES around the cave, as if hundreds of lost souls are laughing with her. Robin crawls away, cover- ing his ears. Marian lifts his face to hers. 
 Drink this. Weakly, Robin tries to push away the cup.   Her hand grips his chin, forcing his mouth open. 
 Drink. 
 Look at me. Listen to me. You belong to me. Your soul is mine. You will obey my every word. Do you understand? Her face is inches from his. He tries to pull away, his subconscious sounding alarms. 
 Why, Marian? (CONTINUED) 
 Because you love me. Say it. You love me. (as Robin struggles) Say it! 
 (sinking) I love you. 
 Kiss me. He gives himself to her. Their lips meet... something changes in his vision. Her eyes glow red. Her face starts to shrivel -- He is kissing the wrinkled lips of Mortianna. He pulls away... strong arms grab him. He shakes his head, trying to make sense. Through his BLURRED vision, we see he is surrounded by masked men. 
 (slurred) Where is Marian? 
 She is with friends. (cackles) Your resistence is strong, but useless. Sign this. (as quill is forced into his hand) You are a Druid like your father. You consort with the devil. Your confession will be witnessed by the Bishop of Hereford. A guard forces Robin's hand across the page... then cries out, clutching his back... An arrow lodged be- tween his shoulders. In the cave mouth are Wulf, bow in hand, Bull kneeling beside Sarah's corpse, and Aslan. 
 (horror) The painted man! Aslan's war CRY RICHOCHETS off the cave walls. A    curved scimitar in one hand, a straight English sword in   the other, his arms are lethal windmills. The masked    guards are cut down left and right. Mortianna retreats,    scurry- ing into the depths of the cave. (CONTINUED) 
 Behind you! Too late. A sword is driven through Bull's gut. Aslan grabs the attacker by the neck and pile-drives him into the cave wall. The man's SKULL CRACKS against the rocks. Aslan runs to Robin's side, as Wulf hurries to Bull's. Robin is slumped against a rock. 
 (groggy) Marian? Aslan runs to the back of the cave, searching. Wulf is crouched beside Bull, who murmurs his dying words. 
 Ya be sure Sarah gits a Christian burial. Promise me, boy. 
 I promise. Aslan stumbles at the edge of a deep crevasse. Far be- low he sees Mortianna, clambering down the steep rock. For a second their eyes meet. She hisses -- venom, hatred, fear -- then is gone. 
 They have poisoned you. There are herbs that can alter a man's brain. I know of only one cure. He drops to one knee, slams Robin violently across the other. Slaps him on the back and forces his fingers down his throat. (CONTINUED) 
 It worked for me this very morning. (as Robin heaves) You will thank me for this later. 
 You have fulfilled your vow.   Now you can leave. 
 Your gratitude warms my heart. 
 You ignored my request. 
 It is fortunate that I did. 
 Because of you, another good man is dead. 
 He urged me to bring him. He was a brave man and I grieve for him. Praise be to Allah that I do not grieve for you also. Or for my broken vow. 
 To hell with your damn vow. 
 I am glad you are feeling better. Ahead of them, Wulf shouts and reins in. He points into the distance. A huge cloud of smoke is darkening the sky. 
 The forest!   Ride! 
 Ya'll be jus' fine. Lil' smoke ain't gonna kill ya. Scared and injured woodsmen careen out of the trees. Full retreat. WILL SCARLET (running up) It's burning for miles, John. It's hotter than hades, and them damn screens ain't worth nothing. Two woodsmen, blinded and choking, stumble into one of their own camouflaged pits. Hideous screams as they're impaled on hidden stakes. John tries to gather the able- bodied men to his side. 
 'Ere, lads... Over 'ere! We must make a stand. Most of them keep on running. 
 Damn y'all! Ya're no more use than a load o' wet farts. WILL SCARLET Where's that damn Locksley?   I'll swear he betrayed us. 
 Bollocks, Will. Quit yer bloody bellyachin'. Hal runs to join them, stuttering. (CONTINUED) 
 C... cccc... 
 C... ccc? What the bloody hell ya sayin'? Cows?... Cowards?... 
 Cccc... elts! WILL SCARLET Celts?   Where? 
 (pointing behind him) Gggg... God help us. 
 I want prisoners. The Chieftain does not turn his head. 
 We came to fight. 
 Nevertheless, I need prisoners. With only a short flick of his head, the Chieftain spits. Nottingham waves his arm, signalling his own foot sol- diers to advance. The Chieftain raises his sword. Instantly a tumultuous chilling roar from his warriors. They charge forward. 
 Stop 'ere and flippin' well fight 'em, that's what. Whadya say, lads? Half-hearted support from about a dozen men, including Tack. 
 Nay, reveren'. Ya best be goin' wi' the wenches. 
 This holy man believes in doing God's work with his hands. 
 Let's give 'em a bloody good wallopin' an' all, lads. 
 Wulf, stay here. I need your horse. He climbs onto Wulf's horse, steers it right at the heart of the enemy... Aslan blocks his way, grabbing his reins. 
 What are you doing?    Out of my way! 
 I saved your life. I will not let you give it away for no purpose. 
 Out of my way, damn you! 
 Does the witch still have possession of your senses? If we meet up with the survivors we may yet give them some help. And do some damage to the enemy. (CONTINUED) 
 Surely you would not harm a man of the cloth? The man swings, Tuck sidesteps. 
 You would?   Then to hellfire with you. He pummels the man to the ground with his staff. The woodsmen are broken into two groups. One group, including Will, is surrounded and surrenders. The others fight on. 
 'Bout bleedin' time, mush. Tuck is driven to the ground... his assailant is deliver- ing the lethal blow, when Aslan cuts him down. Tuck glances heavenwards. 
 Thank you, Lord. (an afterthought) And thank you, Allah. (CONTINUED) 
 Git the bleedin' 'ell outa there, ya li'l bugger. Distracted, he doesn't see a Celt swing at his back... but Wulf's arrow pierces the man's adam's apple. He freezes in mid-air, before toppling at John's feet. When John turns back, Wulf is being dragged away by three of the Sherrif's men. He attempts to pursue, but is intercepted by two more Celts... and struck down. Aslan charges between the two Celts. Slashes down with both swords. Both men topple to the ground simultaneously. Suddenly all is quiet.    The smoking clearing is a mass of fallen bodies. Only    four men seem to be alive. Robin, Aslan, Tuck, who   is slouched against a tree gasping for breath, and   Hal, who kneels clutching his wounded shoulder. Robin dismounts and runs to Little John. Overwhelmed and exhausted, he slumps over the giant's unmoving form. 
 Don't 'ee start bleedin' blubberin', or ya'll make me bloody vomit. 
 It was a fiendish mind that planned this campaign. 
 You were an honor to your countrymen today, Aslan. You fought better than twenty English knights. 
 This war is the God of Abraham against the forces of evil. 
 Well, the war is over. He stares across the desolate clearing. 
 There is too much blood on my hands. 
 (wry smile) Would you prefer pain or death? 
 Death. 
 Torture him. The man is dragged away by guards.    The next PRISONER -- 
 And you?   Pain or death? SECOND WOODSMAN (PRISONER) (pure terror) ... Er... pain. 
 Torture him... you see, it makes no difference. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 NOTTINGHAM (CONT'D) You will all be tortured. You will all tell me all you know about Robin Hood, and then you will all be hanged. Then we will catch your beloved Robin Hood and do the same to him. WILL SCARLET I will kill him for you. 
 Will, no! Nottingham strides up to Will, drawing his sword. 
 Why would I need you? WILL SCARLET All your attempts to kill him have failed. Your army failed. Your Celtic mercenaries failed. Nottingham places his sword point against Will's throat. 
 And you can succeed? WILL SCARLET I am one of his men. He would never suspect me. 
 He knows you always hated him, traitor. 
 If you fail, I will personally cut out your lying tongue. He withdraws the blade.    Will tries to smile. WILL SCARLET And if I succeed? (CONTINUED) 
 His friends will.. (to a guard) ... torture him! He turns back to Will.   A smile of mock apology. 
 It will look better. 
 My pride brought us to this. 
 No, friend. It was you who gave these men pride. 
 I gave them nothing but false hope. Tomorrow we will disperse. These people can move south and start over. You must go home and win your Jasmina. 
 And you? 
 I am no longer your responsibility. 
 That is for me to decide. 
 (raging) Damn you, Arab. I want you out of my life. Can't you understand that? Go home. Go back to your own kind. Aslan stares at him, then turns away. Not the time for argument. Robin fingers his father's medallion... rips it from his neck. (CONTINUED) 
 Damn you, too, Father.   You reared a coward and a fool. He hurls the medallion... it catches on a low-hanging branch. CUT TO: 
 Watery, full. The FOCUS SHIFTS TO the medallion, dangling in its center... the last thing Robin sees before his eyes close into troubled sleep. The white moon against the black sky... DISSOLVE TO: 
 Kiss me, Robin. The noose tightens on her neck. As she dies, her face shrivels into the cackling features of Mortianna. 
 Why have you betrayed me?   Why? Before he pulls the rope, the executioner peels back his hood... It is Robin. Gloating, he hauls on the rope. His laughter blends with that of Mortianna in a hideous cacophony. DISSOLVE TO: 
 ROBIN'S FACE DISTORTED in water. The LAUGHTER BECOMES the sound of a RUNNING RIVER. Robin is washing, trying to drive away the horror. (CONTINUED) 
 Will!    I thought you were taken. WILL SCARLET I was. 
 How did you escape? WILL SCARLET I promised to kill you. 
 And will you? Before Will can answer, Little John runs up.     Grabs Will's throat. 
 I'll wring yer scrawny neck, Will Scarlet. I'd be doin' yer a bloody favor an' all. Quickly, others arrive. Aslan, Tuck, Hal, Fanny, with kids clinging to her skirts. 
 Afore ya kill 'im, John, ask 'im if Wulf be still alive. Will is choking, unable to speak. John loosens his hold just enough for Will to splutter out... WILL SCARLET Y... e... 
 Git us a rope, Hal, and we'll put the bleedin' weasel outa 'is misery. 
 John, wait.    Let us hear what he has to say. 
 No bugger 'scapes the Sheriff, 'nless 'e's linin' 'is bloomin' pockets. (CONTINUED) 
 A traitor sneaks in and out under cover of darkness. Will walked in and announced himself. 
 (dismissive) Aye.    'E always did 'ave balls o' brass. 
 Let's sss... string 'im up. 
 Let him speak. 
 Search 'im, Hal. 'E'll 'ave a bloody blade on 'im somewheres. Will eyes the accusing faces. Hal searches, lifts Will's shirt. His whole skin is lacerated with deep gashes and fresh burns. 
 Bugger me. He steps back.    Ready to listen. WILL SCARLET I bring a message from Nottingham. Our men are to be hung in the square on Saturday. At high noon. 
 What about my boy? WILL SCARLET The boy, too.    Ten men in all. Fanny drops her head on John's shoulder. WILL SCARLET Their   deaths are a warning. Anyone   who associates with the outlaw   Hood is to suffer the same fate.    Man, woman, or child. Even anyone   who so much as utters his name. (CONTINUED) 
 Robin Hood! Robin Hood! Robin Hood! (chuckles) May as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. WILL SCARLET The hangings are to be part of the celebration for the Sheriff's marriage. 
 Marriage, eh? What lucky wench gits to play with the Sheriff's codpiece? Will turns his gaze directly on Robin. WILL SCARLET Lady Marian. 
 He takes a bride of royal blood? 
 Aye, and then with King Richard gone, he takes the bloody throne. Everyone reacts with shock.     Only Robin appears unsur- prised. 
 You were to use this news to get close to me, and then kill me? Right, Will? 
 What is your intention, Will? WILL SCARLET That depends on you, Locksley. 
 How so? WILL SCARLET I've never trusted you, that's no secret. What I wanna know is, are you gonna finish what you started? (CONTINUED) 
 You present quite a choice.    What would you have me do, Will? WILL SCARLET If you run, I will kill you. 
 And if I stay, will you all stay with me? Robin checks the other faces. 
 To the end, friend. 
 If my heathen brother stays, I stay. 
 Mmmm... meee... tttt... He can't get it out.    Little John covers Hal's mouth. 
 'E's in. We're all bloody in. Daft buggers. 
 There's your answer, Will.    We finish it. 
 If it be your biddin' that this be my last night o' life, Lord, gimme the pluck to die proud. An' look 'ee kindly on my folks an' the young 'uns. The light in the cell melts to total darkness. 
 Sunlight glistens on frost-laden branches.      A COCK ROBIN 
. 
 Lord, grant us the courage to endure, and if you're as smart as I believe you are, grant us victory... and the victuals to celebrate it with. 
 Will you pray with me, son of Allah? 
 I have prayed for you, often, my brother. But, let us put prayer aside and help our gods in a more practical manner. I must reveal to you the mysteries of the black powder. Tuck takes a bowl of the powder close to the fire to examine it. Aslan snatches it back... Before Tuck can react, Robin walks up. (CONTINUED) 
 Will it work? Aslan throws a handful of powder into the firel A fire- ball rips ten feet in the air... Tuck falls on his ass in terror. 
 (impressed) You are truly a wizard. 
 There is no such thing. But if there was... (chuckles) ... I would surely be one. Robin reaches out and shakes Aslan's hand. A moment of bonding. He moves on to the others, clasping each man's hand as he speaks. 
 We have no armored knights, no glorious banners. But I am honored to be going to battle in this company. Today we fight not just for the lives of our friends, but to save all England. A moment of tension before Will takes the proferred hand. 
 We may be only six men, but... 
 Seven! 
 What in blazes ya doin', woman? Where's the little 'uns? 
 Them's safe, wi' my mother. (pushes past Little John) Robin, I been to town an' seen the scaffold and the guard towers. 
 Ya gone bleedin' cracked, girl? (CONTINUED) 
 You go an' birth eight babies and then you can come an' tell me 'bout hurtin', ya big ox. I ain't gonna sit aroun' an' let one o' 'em die, neither. 
 Ya should be bloody well mindin' the other seven. Tell 'er, Rob. Robin starts to draw a diagram on the ground with a stick. 
 Fanny, show me the exact location of the scaffold. Little John double-takes. 
 How is my bride? Marian smiles as he leans toward her... and spits in his face. 
 Ah... You are overwhelmed with happiness. He slowly wipes off the spittle... and slaps her hard. (CONTINUED) 
 (calm, uncowed) I will never marry you. Mortianna emerges from a dark corner, bearing the goblet she used at the Druid ceremony. 
 Hold her! Marian struggles against her bonds. 
 Get away from me, you disgusting hag. I will not... augh! 
 (to Mortianna) When we are married, thirty of the northern barons will pledge me their support as king. As you predicted. Mortianna squats on the floor besides a platter of blood. Clasps the dice-like runes. 
 What do you see in the portents? Mortianna rocks on her heels, clutching her taloned hands to her sides. She chants, fingering the bloody stones. 
 The union. The blood of the lion and the house of Nottingham. New faith. New power. New souls. She stares at Nottingham, her red eyes demented. 
 If there is no union, there will be darkness, despair, death. Ours! 
 Di not give me riddles, woman. We are to be married within hours. How can we be in danger? (CONTINUED) 
 The blood does not lie. 
 (shouting) Tell me how it will result. 
 I have told you what I know. 
 Confound you, crone. Without my protection, the people would hunt you down, rip out your black heart and burn it. 
 Without me, you are nothing. You are straw, a fleabite, a speck. (as Nottingham laughs) Laugh, fool. I birthed you from this body. I stole a babe in this very castle, and killed it so that you might rise in its place. You are my son. (Nottingham is too shocked to react) Together we are strong. Now is not the time to doubt. Now is the time to believe, to be bold. The bold will prevail. 
 What you got there, Father? 
 The Lord's finest brew for the good Nottingham's fighting men. It has a mighty kick. (CONTINUED) 
 (smiling) I'll warrant. Pass. 
 Ah, the turncoat. Did you succeed? WILL SCARLET I found his lair, but alas he still lives. The Sheriff strikes down with his armored hand.    Will crumples. 
 Stretch his neck with the others. Hands yank Will to his feet. Dazed, he tries to speak. Disinterested, Nottingham turns away, until he catches... WILL SCARLET ...He... He... is here! 
 Locksley, here? Where ? Will struggles to get free of his holders. WILL SCARLET Call off your dogs. 
 Release him!... Now, where is he? (CONTINUED) 
 (scoffs) We will find him. WILL SCARLET He is concealed. He is going to free the prisoners and stop the wedding. Nottingham's jaw tightens.   Eyes the prisoners, the scaffold. 
 Put Hood in my hands, you go free. WILL SCARLET With the reward. Ten thousand crowns. 
 Damn your worthless hide!    Just tell me where he is. WILL SCARLET The reward! The parade of prisoners reaches them. Seeing Will, Wulf charges at him, screaming in blind rage. Soldiers grab Wulf. Throw him down, kicking and beating. Voices in the crowd plead to let him be. Someone tries to intervene, gets hurled down. 
 (to Will) You'll get your reward. Where is he? CUT TO: 
 Out of the way. Make way for the Lord's business. (CONTINUED) 
 Step down, friar. 
 As you wish, sire. Is there something amiss? 
 This man claims you have outlaws concealed in these barrels. Among them the cursed Robin Hood. Tuck glares at Will with unconcealed hatred. 
 This man will rot in hell as a knave and a liar. These are libations for the celebration of your lordship's nuptials. (CONTINUED) 
 Break one open! 
 (nervous) Why waste fine vintage, my lord? A cask is shattered... wine torrents out. WILL SCARLET Try another. There are many barrels, only a few outlaws. A drum roll. The Sheriff's attention turns to the scaffold, where the first victim is escorted up the steps -- Wulf. Tense, Tuck pulls a tinder box from his robes, strikes a flame. 
 What is your business, woman? 
 Ain't doin' no 'arm, m'dear. Likes a good 'angin', I do. Luvly view up 'ere, ain't it? She gestures below. The Sentry looks, then turns back to her... notices the rope. With all her might, Fanny rams his head into the stone battlement. Twice. Three times. He slumps unconscious. 
 Give room for a fightin' man and his ma. Step aside, or I'll make ya. I wanna see the bastards walk on air. 
 'Bout time, ya gurt lug. She wrenches the longbow from his back, fumbles for an arrow. 
 We be too late. 
 Here... By God... Let's fight 'em! 
 Hal! What happened to your stutter? 
 It's gg... ggg... g..oh crap! A guard attacks, Hal fells him. 
 Take that, ya mug. No stutter this time!    The woodsmen join battle with the guards. The Chieftain cudgels his Celt attacker across the head. The boar's head helmet tumbles... revealing Aslan. 
 Impostor!   You dishonor the clan. Aslan retreats, fending off the Chieftain's shattering blows. 
 John and Fanny peer down as the smoke clears. They watch Wulf struggle to his feet. A Celt sneaks up behind him. 
 Fight fair... (CONTINUED) 
 ...Or don't fight at all. 
. The Greybeard Baron spots Little John and Fanny on the parapet. 
 Up there!   No mercy, shoot them! Crossbowmen on the opposite parapet fire.      Bolts ricochet all around Little John and Fanny. 
 
 Here's another message to Robin Hood, written in your blood. He drives his sword repeatedly, insanely, into Will's belly. WILL SCARLET It's over, fool. You can kill my body, but you cannot kill our spirit. He finally drops... Nottingham heads for the castle. Robin attempts to follow. He swings from the noose, using the rope to vault over the surrounding soldiers. As he lands, he is waylaid by one of the barons and his men. 
 It's Hood!   Get him! The Chieftain knocks Aslan down.   Aslan loses his sword. 
 I am iron.   I am rock. I am your death. Aslan spots one of John's arrows protruding from a dead Celt's back. Scrambles over and tears it out. 
 You talk too much! He leaps... rams the arrow through the Chieftain's mouthpiece... out the back of his neck. The Chieftain grabs his helmet, trying to rip it off. He topples, his life's blood gushing from both sides of his neck. Aslan plants a foot on the slain warrior. 
 Englishmen! I am not one of you, yet I fight for you. Against a tyrant. Join me now. Join Robin Hood. The onlookers are inspired. Grabbing weapons from fallen soldiers, many join the fray. (CONTINUED) 
 Lower the portcullis! Now! A guard winds down the giant gate.   Nottingham hurls him aside. 
 Too slow, fool! He hacks at the ropes. The gate slices down like a guillotine, pinning soldiers and peasants alike. 
 Friends!   We must raise the gate. 
 Come on, ya ckicken-'earted buggers. Ya milksops, ya bleedin' pansies. He can't shoot fast enough. As they descend on him, he leaps from the battlements onto a soldier's back. Grabs his sword. 
 Excuse me, m 'old cock. Ya mind if I borrow this? He's backed up against a battlement, outnumbered five to one. 
 Seal the entrance. Guard it with your lives. ... Bring the bishop to my chapel. 
 Come!   It is time for the union. The guards roughly haul Marian to her feet.    She is oblivious. 
 They are rebelling. We must escape. 
 Marry us. When I am declared king, that rabble will not dare go against us. 
 Is is madness to delay. Mortianna screams and slashes her talons across the Bishop's outstretched hands. Blood flows. 
 Face them, or face me. 
 Light all the barrels, Tuck. (CONTINUED) 
 Jump! Tuck jumps. Robin steers the wagon at the gate. At the last second, he slashes the reins and leaps onto the horse's back... The BARRELS EXPLODE! The portcullis is blown to kingdom come. Out of the smoke, Robin rides the old nag like a charger. Leads his cheering, ragged fighters through the open gate. 
 For Allah!... For Jehovah! For brotherhood!... For justice! 
 (grabbing a servant) Where is she? Where is Lady Marian? (CONTINUED) 
 Ah!   There is my answer. He hurls the man aside... The armed guards charge him. 
 (pious) My son, there is a holy war being waged outside. Release all these wretches and God shall surely find you a place in heaven. 
 I'd rather go to hell! WHAM! Tuck takes the lethal cudgel full in the chest. Flies back. 
 ...your bodies to be bound in immortal wedlock. Do you, Marian Dubois, take... The chapel DOORS SHATTER inward. Robin backs in, bloodied, fencing with four remaining soldiers. He smashes one by swinging the heavy door into him, hurtles a pew at another. He springs off another pew, taking down a third. 
 Marian, run!   It's me, Robin. Run! Marian remains immobile. Mortianna moves to her side. Robin is struck in the thigh. Like a vulture, the Sheriff waits. Tiring, blood pouring from his leg, Robin prepares to fight him. (CONTINUED) 
 I warned you, I would find you no matter what. 
 No companions? No army? You rush to your death for the sake of a woman. Lust has turned you into a fool... Recognize this, Locksley? He raises his sword to reveal its handle. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt... Robin's father's sword. 
 Appropriate I should use it to kill you with, don't you think? He lunges. A savage, accomplished swordsman, with fire in his eyes. Exhausted, Robin is driven back, parrying desperately. 
 The Lord helps those who help themselves. Grinning, he pulls open his robes, revealing chest armor ... and a miniature powder keg. He holds it to his flaming torch and tosses it to the jailer... Stupified, the man catches the smoking bomb. 
 Give my regards to the devil. The KEG ERUPTS, blowing the jailer through a wall. 
 Ya gutless bloody sissies. Someone attacks his assailants from the rear.    The tide turns. 
 Wulf! I told ya to keep outa the fightin'. (CONTINUED) 
 Sorry, Father. Couldn't help myself. 
 Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome... For now, let's see how well I taught ya. Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet. 
 No!   Fight on. Fight! He sees a familiar pair of holy sandals marching towards him. Tuck leading a barefoot army. Dozens of ragged prisoners, armed with chains and torture implements. 
 Sinners, beware! God's avengers are at hand. Dying, Hal manages a weak smile. 
 Go' bless ya, Tuck. 
 Repent, heathen! The man spins to strike back... freezes... grinning... Aslan! 
 Listen! Outside, your countrymen rise against the Sheriff. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 
 FANNY (CONT'D) Is there one man or woman here who does not hate him? Who has not suffered at his hand? (to the chef) Turn that on the Sheriff and his bullies. A deadly pause. A woman cook dumps the giant wedding cake right over the chef. Suddenly it's havoc. Flying food and cutlery. 
 You should have stayed away, Locksley. Fools like you never learn. A blow slices Robin's arm. His sword flies from his grasp. Nottingham gloats. Two of his men scramble back to their feet. Robin is beat... a war cry! Aslan, followed by Tuck. 
 Ali akbar! 
 Amen! 
 (seeing Aslan) Agh... the painted one! Nottingham glances over... a split-second opportunity!... Robin lashes out. Kicks the Sheriff in the gut, chops down his sword hand. His father's sword clatters to the floor. Whirling swords in each hand, Aslan attacks the other men. Robin pile-drives Nottingham into the wall. (CONTINUED) 
 So! You sold your soul to the devil? 
 No, I swear it, in God's name. 
 Blasphemer! You accuse innocent men of Druid worship while you practice the black arts yourself. The Bishop surreptitiously draws a dagger from his robes. 
 (glimpsing her) Watch out! Aslan spins... too late. Screeching, Mortianna drives the spear into Aslan's side. He cries out and slides to the floor. Nottingham uses Robin's distraction to regain his sword. Back on the defensive, Robin tries to evade the blows. Mortianna drags Marian out onto a balcony. Robin cannot pursue. In acute pain, Aslan struggles to his feet. Grasping the spear where it enters his side, he pulls with all his strength. The Bishop, concealed dagger in hand, approaches Tuck. 
 (innocently) I am sure you would not strike a man of the cloth. 
 Think again! Without an eyeblink's pause, Tuck punches the Bishop so hard, he flies back THROUGH a stained-glass WINDOW. 
 What you fear is not below. He charges at her with the bloody spear. She screams hideously as he thrusts it right through her chest. Her madness is superhuman. With strength beyond all reason, she crawls up the spear's shaft, forcing it further through her body in her effort to get at him. Clutching, screeching, hissing. Her talons groping at his face, Aslan strains to the last ounce of his will and heaves her over the battle- ments. With an ear-splitting shriek, she plummets to the ground. 
 What can your puny God do for you now? The blade comes whirring down... clang! It's blocked. Robin has the altar's crucifix in his hand. He swings it again, slamming Nottingham across the temple.  The Sheriff hits the floor. Robin grabs his father's sword. Raises it two-fisted. Nottingham tries to squirm away. 
 This is for my father. 
 Let me go!   Who are you? (CONTINUED) 
 (restraining her) I'm your sworn protector.   Any way I see fit. 
 Robin?   Oh God, is that you? She stumbles out of the fountain... and storms at him, pounding her fists on his chest. 
 How dare you?! Robin grins at the crowd. 
 I think she's feeling better. Marian looks about her... the chaotic aftermath of battle. Reality gradually sinks in. She folds against Robin's chest. Little John arrives, his huge arms enfolding Wulf and Fanny. 
 We done it, mate. We clobbered the buggers. 
 Are you 'urt? 
 It will mend. He spots a group kneeling beside the fallen body of Aslan. His smile fades. He runs over. Cradles Aslan's head. 
 Aslan, my friend. (CONTINUED) 
 I'm going home the easy way, Robin. 
 (shaking Aslan) You die on me, you son of satan, and I swear I'll bury you as a Christian in St. Catherine's Cathedral with a thousand monks chanting prayers for your miserable soul. You hear me? 
 (weakly) I have no strength, Brother Tuck. 
 (kicking him) A fine friend you are! By the grace of Allah and Jehovah we have won the day, and you want to give up the ghost. I'll pickle your remains in mead, lay you in your grave with a pig for a companion, and mark it with a cross as big as this castle. 
 Please!   It hurts when I laugh. 
 See. There's life in the heathen dog yet. 
 (laughs) Here, Tuck. Look after him.    You deserve each other. Robin stands, Marian joins him. Around them cheering grows, till the whole crowd is in unison. 
 Robin Hood!   Robin Hood! DISSOLVE TO: 
 (O.S.) By the power vested in me by God's holy church, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Tuck is performing the ceremony before the happy couple. 
 You may kiss the bride. The husband draws back the bride's veil.    Robin and Marian. They kiss... long. 
 (whispers) Hurry. We waste good celebration time. They break   the embrace, turn to the congregation and start down   the aisle. They pause at the front pew, where KING   RICHARD and members of his court are sitting. Robin bows,   Marian curtsies. 
 May I kiss the bride? 
 Who would dare refuse his king's request? 
 (kissing Marian's cheek) You look radiant, cousin. 
 We are deeply honored by Your Majesty's presence. 
 It is I who am honored, Lord Locksley. Thanks to you I still have a throne. They continue down the aisle, past the smiling congre- gation. Waiting by the door is Aslan. He and Robin embrace. 
 (whispers) My friend, a word of advice... Ride her better than your horse. Robin laughs. 
... 
