 SUPER:  AUTUMN, 1987 
 I got you a few necessities... 
 KATE  (CONT’D) Your copy was a mess... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way... 
 All in one tape? 
 I also put side two of London Calling on there... 
 KATE  (CONT’D) That was not officially the goodbye kiss. It was just an interim kiss... 
 (O.S.) This will be the final boarding call for Pan Am flight 4 to London, Heathrow. 
 You have your ticket? 
 I’m not even gonna say it, Kate. Maybe it’ll be like I never left... 
 Wait. 
 KATE (CONT’D) I have a bad feeling about this. 
 About the plane? What do you think it’s gonna crash? Don’t say that... 
 (shaking her head) I know we’ve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong. 
 KATE (CONT’D) Don’t  go, Jack... 
 You mean don’t go at all? What about my internship? 
 Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you... 
 For us, Kate. 
 Right, for us. But...I’m afraid that if you get on that plane... 
 What? 
 (torn) Go. I’m sorry, you should just go... 
 (thinking, then...) No, you’re right.  What are we doing? 
 We're being responsible.  Go. Get on the plane. 
 KATE (CONT'D) (a smile) Get the hell outta my sight. You bother me. 
 (resolute) Okay, I'm going... 
 I can't seem to let go of you... 
 You hear me complaining about that? 
 JACK (CONT'D) Look, we're at the airport and no one ever thinks clearly at the airport so we should just trust the decision we already made.  You've been accepted to one of the best law schools in the country, I've got this internship at Barclay's Bank. We have a great plan, honey... 
 You want to do something great, Jack?  Let's flush the plan...start our lives right now, today...I don't know what that life's gonna look like but I do know it has both of us in it.  And I choose us... 
 KATE (CONT'D) The plan doesn't make us great, Jack.  What we have together, that's what makes us great. 
 I love you, Kate... 
 JACK (CONT'D) (taking her face in his hands) ...and a year in London's not gonna change that.  A hundred years couldn't change that... 
 (holding up toothbrush) I hope you don't mind.  There were like ten new ones in the cabinet. 
 It's not what you think.  I took Mentadent public... 
 Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany? 
 Of course I did. 
 Last night was great... 
 You are an amazing lover.  You should be giving motivational seminars. 
 Thanks.  You're not bad yourself... 
 I want to see you again. 
 I'd like that, too. 
 Tonight. 
 It's Christmas Eve, Jack. 
 So we'll get egg nog. 
 (putting on her shoes) I have to go to my parents' house out in Jersey.  Would you like to come? 
 Jersey?  You know what the traffic's gonna be like? 
 I'm taking the train... 
 PAULA (CONT'D) Don't you have anywhere to go? 
 I've got plenty of places to go. 
 (a sexy laugh, then...) Maybe I can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... (kissing him on the lips) Okay? 
 (coy) If it's something you feel strongly about. 
 It was nice meeting you, Jack... 
 (a charming smile) Mrs. Peterson. 
 MRS. PETERSON Hello Jack.  You don’t have to stop singing on my account... 
 It’s because I’m shy, Betty.  So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me? 
 MRS. PETERSON You know you could never satisfy me the way he does... 
 How’d you do this year, Tony? 
 Just until the Deutsche Mark turns... 
 ...if MedTech's shares sink any lower than... (casually executing a keystroke) ...forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation.  So for god's sake watch what you say to your institutional customers... 
 JACK (CONT'D) ...we still have almost a full day of trading before zero hour and I don't want any trouble... (distracted by Mintz) ...penny for your thoughts, Alan... 
 Sorry, Jack.  I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner.  You know, it being Christmas Eve and all. 
 Is that tonight? 
 JACK (CONT'D) You think I like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan? 
 I don't know.  Maybe... 
 Okay, maybe I do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season.  But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in U.S. corporate history.  Thirty billion dollars... (basking in the glory) When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over.  You don't ask it for a vacation... 
 JACK (CONT'D) (to the group) December 26th.  After that there'll be so much money floating around here it'll be like Christmas every day... (smiling) December 26th, people.  If you'd like to celebrate that day, you all have my blessing... 
 You're right, Jack.  Sorry... Jack approaches Alan. 
 I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited.  I want my gift to be the first one you open this year.  You know why? 
 Why Jack? 
 Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end... 
 JACK (CONT'D) Good man... 
 Only eight thirty?  What's the matter, had some last minute shopping to do? 
 You too?  This holiday's about giving, Adelle.  And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than anyone... (holding out the candy) Lifesaver? 
 (ignoring the candy) You're a ray of sunshine, Jack. 
 Oh, and Oxxford called... 
 Ooh, my suits are ready... 
 JACK (CONT'D) Kate Reynolds... 
 Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight. 
 Her assistant? 
 Yeah Jack, her assistant... 
 (lost in the message) Kate Reynolds was my girlfriend in college.  I almost married her... 
 (a hearty LAUGH) You?  Married? 
 (snapping out of it) Almost married.  And almost a junior broker at E.F. Hutton... 
 Excuse me? 
 She didn't want me to go to London.  We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay. 
 So you left her?  Just like that? 
 God, no.  I thought about it for practically the entire flight... 
 Stop Jack, I'm getting all weepy. 
 I took the road less traveled, Adelle. 
 And look where it's led you... (picking up the phone) I'm gonna get her on the phone... 
 No... 
 No?!  You almost married this woman.  Aren't you even curious what she wants? 
 She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia.  You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing. 
 JACK (CONT'D) I'm telling you, it's ancient history... 
 Eight forty-five on Christmas Eve and Jack Campbell is still at his desk.  There's a Hallmark moment for you... 
 Peter.  I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree. 
 (pouring himself a scotch) That's because I'm a heartless bastard who only cares about money. 
 And God love you for it. 
 (sipping the scotch) I just got a call from Terry Haight.  Bob Thomas is nervous... 
 That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin... 
 Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this. 
 Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter? 
 I need you, tiger.. 
 Where is he? 
 Aspen. 
 (to Adelle) Call Aunt Irma.  Tell her I won't be able to make it tomorrow... 
 You're a credit to capitalism, Jack. 
 Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question.  An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve... 
 You suddenly having trouble getting dates? 
 Not by a long shot. 
 Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns.  You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose. 
 (to Adelle) I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon.  Call the group.  Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon. 
 That'll be a nice little holiday treat. 
 Mr. Campbell.  Why didn't you call down, I would've had Joe get your ride. 
 I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank. 
 Nice night for it.  I'll have Louis send your car home. 
 FRANK (CONT'D) Merry Christmas to you, sir... 
 Thanks.  To you too... 
 Oh yeah...yeah, yee-ah!  She's a certified winner...paper- thin but good as gold... 
 Egg nog? 
 (pointing) Dairy case.  Five dollar. 
 (in the b.g., to Sam Wong) Y'all do the lotto here...? `Cause I got me a winner...I know, I know, Lotto keeps the black man down... but not me... 
 CASH (CONT'D) ...06...14...18...48...right there.  Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... (a smile) Merry Christmas and shit... 
 (barely looking at ticket) Ticket bad.  You draw in lines with pencil. 
 What're you talkin' about? 
 (throwing the ticket back) You draw lines with pencil!  I know about this! 
 What!?  Look at the ticket...! 
 Get out, I call 911. 
 You're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the ticket! 
 You leave now.  Take ticket somewhere else. (calling out) Next customer in line...! 
 You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making... 
 (screaming) Get out! 
 LOOK AT THE GODDAMN TICKET!! 
 (carefully) Let me see that ticket. 
 (menacing) Was I talkin' to you?! 
 Maybe I'll buy it from you. 
 Guy in $2,000 suit gets ass kicked tryin' to be a hero. Film at eleven... (then...turning to the coffee machine) What?!  Oh no, not another lookie-loo.  You know how big a job this is? 
 CASH (CONT'D) You're double bookin' me! You're gonna get double billed!  Shit! 
 Hey, c'mon... 
 (in Jack's face) Do you want to die? 
 CASH (CONT'D) DO YOU WANNA DIE?! 
 No. 
 (a smile) Yes you do... 
 Look, I'm talking about a business deal here.  I buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter... (glaring at Sam Wong) ...doesn't have a death wish (back to Cash) ...I just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars. 
 JACK (CONT'D) Like I said, it's a business deal... 
 Damn, you are the real thing... 
 CASH (CONT'D) C'mon, Jack, let's get outta here... (to Sam Wong) You were lookin' at me, papa, you shoulda been lookin' at the ticket.  That ticket was legit, B.  You're fake... 
 How'd you know my name was Jack? 
 I call all you white guys "Jack." 
 CASH (CONT'D) You know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him. 
 There's no way I was gonna die in that deli... (off Cash's look) Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately. 
 (a big LAUGH) A lucky streak, huh? 
 CASH (CONT'D) Sound pretty sure of yourself, don't you? 
 CASH (CONT'D) So you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe I shouldn't do this, I shoulda done that. 
 I don't do that.  That's just not for me... 
 Okay, Jack.  Nice doing business with you... Cash is about to take off... 
 Hey... 
 JACK (CONT'D) What do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? You're just gonna do something you'll regret... 
 You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person. 
 I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy.  At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back... 
 Yeah, in most cases that'd be true. 
 I mean there must be programs out there, opportunities... 
 (a deep laugh) Wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me? 
 CASH (CONT'D) Oh man, you're serious... (out to the street) This man thinks I need to be saved! 
 Everyone needs something. 
 Yeah?  What do you need? 
 Me? 
 You just said everyone needs something. 
 I've got everything I need. 
 Wow.  It must be great being you.  You got it all. 
 Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work... 
 (a hearty LAUGH) You still think this is about me, don't you? 
 Sure it's about you.  But it's about society, too. 
 Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this.  You brought this on yourself... 
 ...KATE REYNOLDS... 
 Mmmm...ten more minutes, Jack... it’s Christmas... 
 Jingle bells, Santa s mells, Rudolph laid an egg...la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la... 
 ANNIE (CONT’D) You too, Luce... 
 ANNIE (CONT’D) Rise...and...shine...! 
 (stirring) You’re jumping, sweetheart... 
 Mom, don’t you think we need to open the presents? 
 (groggy) Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present... 
 C’mon, Dad.  Get up! 
 Jack...? 
 KATE (CONT’D) (still groggy) Strong coffee, okay? 
 (O.S.) (calling from the bedroom) Use an entire can if you have to! 
 (drawing on a memory) Ed?  Lorraine? 
 Jack you ol’ bird dog. Merry Christmas to ya’... 
 Talk to him, Jack. Please.  One day a year away from the Ponderosa. I don’t think that’s too much to ask. 
 I heard that.  This is who I am, woman! (a wink to Jack) Tell her, Jack!  You’re the only one who gets me, for god’s sake! 
 I need some egg nog... 
 ‘Course you do.  Hell, it’s almost 8 a.m. (shouting upstairs) Where are my two l’il pardners?  Annie!  Josh! Giddy up, Bid Ed’s here! 
 Excuse me. 
 Where are you going, Jack? (to Big Ed) Where’s he going? 
 Damned if I know... 
 Where’s my car?!  Where’s my Ferrari!? 
 What the hell are you talking about? (to Lorraine) What’s he talking about? 
 Look, can I just borrow your car?!  I promise it’ll be returned! 
 The Caddy?  Why don’t you take your own damn car! 
 Oh just let him borrow your precious Cadillac, for god’s sake. 
 He’s got a perfectly good mini-van sitting out there in the driveway! 
 Tony, thank god... 
 What are you talking about?  It’s me, Jack Campbell.  Penthouse C. I put you into commercial paper! 
 Elizabeth Peterson! 
 MRS. PETERSON (to Tony re: Jack, annoyed) Who is this man? 
 You know me, Betty.  You do.  Jack Campbell. We’re on the co-op board together.  We fought side by side for garbage disposals.  Every morning we exchange quasi-sexual witty banter.  Think... 
 MRS. PETERSON (raising a hand to Tony) No... 
 (a sigh of relief) Thank you, Betty.  I know if I can just sleep this off, I’ll be fine... 
 MRS. PETERSON And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead.  Not yet anyway...Come, let’s get you some help.  Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city. 
 A shelter?!  I’m the richest guy in the building...I’ve got twice the square footage you have! 
 Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there... 
 Frank.  Where’s Alan Mintz?  Is he here yet? 
 Mr. Mintz? (a knowing chuckle) I don’t think so...building’s closed pal.  You’ll have to come back tomorrow. 
 Look, I don’t know what’s going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company. 
 I don’t care who you are.  It’s Christmas and like I told you the building is closed. 
 Maybe you’re not hearing me.  I am Jack Campbell... (approaching the building directory) Right here.  Jack Campbell, President... 
 (O.S.) Hey!  Watch where you’re walking! 
 You almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar car! 
 VOICE (CONT’D) That’s right!  My new car’s worth more than your shitty house! 
 VOICE (CONT’D) I feel like I really did win the lottery! 
 Miss me, Jack? 
 That’s my car!  You stole my car! 
 It’s a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract... 
 What?! 
 Basically, it’s my car now.  Get in. 
 CASH (CONT’D) Look, I don’t make the rules, Jack.  This is how it works.  Get in. 
 Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack... 
 (recovering) What the hell is happening to me?! 
 This kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. Seen it happen.  So if you get the urge, do it out the window. (with a taunting laugh) I don’t want you marring this exquisite leather interior... 
 CASH (CONT’D) Look, I don’t know what you’re getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself. 
 Brought what on myself?! I didn’t do anything! 
 No?  C’mon, Jack...I’ve got everything I need, I don’t have regrets, that’s just not for me... sound familiar? 
 You mean because you thought I was cocky I’m now on a permanent acid trip?!! 
 Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you.  You’re making a business deal... 
 (enraged) Give me my goddamn life back! 
 You?  What about me?  I’m working hard for you here, Jack.  On Christmas too!  Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way.  I was moved... 
 (interrupting) Please.  Just tell me what’s happening to me. In plain English.  None of that mumbo jumbo... 
 It’s a glimpse, Jacko. 
 I glimpse?  A glimpse of what!?  What glimpse?! Glimpse! 
 Look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of ‘em take a couple seconds... (looking at Jack) ...some of ‘em take a lot longer... 
 I asked you a direct question!  A glimpse of what?! 
 Figure it out.  You got plenty of time. 
 How much time?! 
 As long as it takes to figure it out.  Which, in your case, could be considerable. 
 Look, I just want my life back.  Now what’s it gonna take?  You wanna talk turkey?  Let’s talk turkey!  How much money...? 
 Do I look like I need your money.  It doesn’t work like that and I can’t tell you why. 
 Why not? 
 Because you got to figure it out for yourself. (beat) Are you listening to me? 
 Figure it out?  Figure what out?! 
 JACK (CONT’D) That’s it?  That’s all I get?!  A glare?! 
 Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you. 
 Look, I don’t have time for this right now.  I’m in the middle of a deal... 
 Oh you’re working on a new deal now...did I mention that? 
 You know what?  I’ve had it with you.  I’ve had it with all of this shit... 
 Here... 
 What’s this, a signal? Will you come whenever I ring it? 
 Do I look like I live in a bottle? 
 (lost) But what do I do? 
 Look Jack I’m late.  I’d love to help you out some more but I gotta go handle my business... (gesturing to the mini-van) Happy trails. 
 Hey, you did this to me, you can’t just leave me like this. 
 Fine.  You want to know everything, I’ll tell you everything.  But not here.  Let’s get some air... 
 (relieved) Thanks, man... 
 Excuse me.  Do you know where Merrison Street is? 
 (turning to his wife) Jeannie!  I found Jack! 
 You look terrible... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Truth is I expected you. Kate called before and asked if I knew where you were. 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) I know, I moved the Barca-lounger into the corner.  It’s throwin’ everybody off.  What do you think? 
 (with a nod) Great room... 
 You and me, buddy.  We know how to live... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) So Jack, you okay? 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) I mean you leave the house on Christmas morning, you don’t tell anyone where you’re going... 
 We’re friends, aren’t we? 
 Maybe I don’t say it enough but you moving in next door to me... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Talk to me... 
 I’m having kind of a bad day. 
 (nodding) I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) (to himself) What am I saying?  You don’t need to hear that... (back to Jack) All I meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, that’s all.  Is that you? 
 Is it...? 
 Trouble at work? 
 I don’t think so. 
 It’s not Kate, is it? 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) (proudly) You see, it’s like we’re in each other’s heads... 
 Kate’s my wife... 
 (a playful smile) Just keep saying it, Jack, like a mantra. 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) C’mon, I better walk ya home.  She’s mad enough as it is, right...? 
 Look, you fit the profile exactly.  Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities.  You start thinking...this isn’t the life I dreamt about.  Where’s the romance, where’s the joie de vivre?  Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you can’t have... 
 (thinking, then...) It’s just two kids, right? 
 You made a choice, Jack, a promise to your wife. Maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you got... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished basement... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) (shaking his head) Kids... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Okay look, you probably don’t want to hear this right now but remember what you told me last summer when I almost had that thing with Arnie Jr.’s speech therapist. 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Don’t screw up the best thing in your life just because you’re a little unsure about who you are.  Okay? 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) God, it feels so good to finally give something back to you... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) I’m gonna hug you now... 
 (into phone) Hold on a second... 
 You cut your hair... 
 Ten years ago... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Are you okay? 
 Yeah...fine. 
 (into phone) Never mind, he just walked in... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Do you have any idea what you put us through today?!  You walk out of here at 7:30 in the morning, don’t tell me where you’re going, or even that you’re going, and I don’t see you ‘til hours later.  I had state troopers looking for you!  I called hospitals... (pointing at the phone) ...I was just on the phone with the morgue for god’s sake! 
 KATE (CONT’D) What kind of man leaves his family on Christmas morning without a word about where he’s going? 
 KATE (CONT’D) What kind of man does that!? 
 (jumping in) I don’t know!  Please stop yelling at me! 
 Where were you? 
 I was in the city. 
 The city?  New York City?  Why? 
 Because that’s where I live. 
 Jack...don’t even start... 
 Look, you don’t understand.  I woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (pointing upstairs) I’m not “Dad...”.  Kate, you’re not my wife... 
 You know what, Jack? It’s not funny this time.  I’m really angry. 
 KATE (CONT’D) (loudly) Jack! 
 (re: bell) What’s that? 
 ANNIE (CONT’D) (examining the bell) I like this... (jumping up and giving hima peck on the cheek) ...thanks, Dad! 
 You missed the whole thing, Jack.  The pancakes, the presents...you spent six hours putting that bike together and you didn’t even get to see the look on Annie’s face when she opened it... 
 KATE (CONT’D) You missed Christmas, Jack. 
 I’m...I’m sorry. 
 Look, we don’t have time for this right now, we’ll talk about it later.  Now get dressed... (pointing to his outfit) You’re not wearing that to the Thompsons’ party. I don’t care how hilarious you think it is... 
 Party?  Oh no, I can’t go to a party... 
 You look forward to this party all year.  What’s with you today? 
 Trust me on this Kate.  I really don’t think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time. 
 Fine.  Do whatever you want. 
 What are you doing? 
 Telling my mother she doesn’t have to stay with the kids. 
 Why not? 
 Because you’ll be here. 
 I’ll be ready in ten minutes. 
 JACK (CONT’D) Christ... (turning around) Where the hell is the bathroom? 
 Funny, Jack.  I’m laughing on the inside. 
 This is just... (searching for the words) ...this is sub-par... 
 Kate!  Jack! (turning around, to guests) Everybody, Jack and Kate are here! 
. 
 (suggestively) Like the dress...? 
 (glancing at it) It’s lovely... 
 (a satisfied smile) I thought I saw you notice it at the kids’ recital. 
 Did you see Van Horn last night?  This kid’s gonna single-handedly save basketball in the state of New Jersey... 
 The Nets?  You’re kidding, right...? 
 JACK (CONT’D) (recovering) Well...they’re certainly due. 
 So tomorrow’s the big day, Jackie... 
 Okay...why? 
 Triple bypass.  I’m going under the knife.  I told you, didn’t I? 
 Triple bypass? (pointing to his plate) You really think you should be eating all that? 
 Why not?  I figure I’m going in for a cleaning tomorrow, I might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight... 
 Good thinking, Bill. Have another drink. (whispering to Jack) He’ll be lucky if he lives through the night... 
 (holding out a puff to Jack) Finger food...? 
 I don’t think so, thank you... 
 (suggestively) C’mon, as soon as I put them down, you’re gonna grab a couple...you always do... 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) Let me.  They’ll melt in your mouth... 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) Good? 
 (forcing a smile) They’re great!  Thank you! 
 Mushroom puffs aren’t the only thing I do well... 
 Well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. Excuse me... 
 (loudly, into phone) ...what do you mean he won’t come to the phone?! (standing, indignant) Do you realize how much money I’ve made for that sonuvabitch in the last eight years?! 
 JACK (CONT’D) Damnit! 
 (O.S.) Jack...? 
 Are you sure you’re okay...? 
 Yes, I’m fine.  It’s just this god awful football phone!  Who has a phone like this anyway?! 
 (doubtful) Uh huh... 
 KATE (CONT’D) You must really love Evelyn’s mushroom puffs, huh? (with a wink) You know they’re not real... 
 (to guests) ...then she asks me to put this sweater on. What choice do I have, right? 
 KATE (CONT’D) But as I’m slipping it on I notice she’s misspelled the word “lawyers.” (laughing) I had to go through the entire day wearing a hand embroidered sweater that said, “Non-Profit Layers Do It For Free.” 
 (to Kate, off-hand) So you’re a lawyer...? 
 JACK (CONT’D) A non-profit lawyer... 
 (a little embarrassed) Jack... 
 Pro bono.  You don’t get paid at all.  Nobody makes a dime.  Well, bravo... 
 I better go wake my mother... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Here you go... 
 You’re kidding me... 
 She’s your dog, Jack. 
 No, she’s not. 
 Fine, she’s the kid’s dog.  Let’s go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk her. 
 But it’s twenty degrees outside... 
 (sympathetic) You’re having a bad day, I’ll go with you...actually, there’s no way in hell you’re gettin’ me back out there... 
 KATE (CONT’D) (heading up the stairs) Make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two... 
 Figure it out...I’m s crewed...don’t have to be a genius to figure that out... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (to Lucy) It’s as good a place as any... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...but obviously not up to your high standards... (to himself) Okay...he said you’re working on a new deal now...fine, you’ve done a thousand deals, what’s the first thing you do? 
 JACK (CONT’D) Triage.  It’s your signature.  You survey the damage, find out everything you can, you probe, leave nothing to chance.  I’m just gonna have to go detective. How did you get Mentadent?  You learned everything there was to know about toothpaste and then you pounced... 
 JACK (CONT’D) That’s our play here... 
 JACK (CONT’D) If you could take a dump some time in this century, then we could go home where it’s warm... 
 JACK (CONT’D) That is if I can even remember how to get home... (to Lucy) You remember, don’t you girl? 
 Hello? 
 JACK (CONT’D) (louder, over music) Hello! 
 (singing) ...my feet are hurtin’... 
 (yelling) 
! 
 JACK (CONT’D) Uh...that baby’s crying... 
 (unimpressed) And...? 
 KATE (CONT’D) Don’t give me that look, Jack, Tuesday’s your day and you know it.  And try to get Josh to day care on time, okay?  He missed the macaroni painting last week... 
 Pull tape... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Holy mother of god! 
 JACK (CONT’D) You must be kidding... 
 You’re not really our dad, are you? 
 No, I’m not. 
 JACK (CONT’D) I work on Wall Street, you know with the big buildings...? 
 JACK (CONT’D) I live in an apartment house with a doorman, I can buy just about anything I want... 
 JACK (CONT’D) This isn’t my real life. It’s just a glimpse... 
 Where’s my real dad? 
 I don’t know... 
 JACK (CONT’D) But don’t worry, he loves you and I’m sure he’ll be back very soon... (to himself) ...very, very soon... 
 They did a pretty good job. 
 Who did? 
 The aliens...In the mother ship.  You look just like him. 
 Uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right? 
 JACK (CONT’D) You’re not going to start crying, are you?  Because I’m not really sure I could deal with that right now. 
 Do you like kids? 
 On a case by case basis... 
 You know how to make chocolate milk? 
 I think I could figure it out. 
 You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains? 
 Sure. 
 Welcome to earth. 
 Stop here... 
 ANNIE (CONT’D) This is day care.  It’s where babies go when their parents are at work. 
 Check... 
 Do I get a receipt or something...? 
 I have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty. 
 Five thirty.  Okay. 
 Try not to be late because kids don’t like to be the last one picked up. 
 Got it.  Good tip. 
 Bye... 
 (calling out window) Hey!  Annie! 
 JACK (CONT’D) Where do I go now? 
 Big Ed’s. 
 Big Ed’s?  Big Ed’s Tires? (suspicious) Why...? 
 That’s where you work. 
 You mean I sell tires... 
 JACK (CONT’D) That’s what I do.  I’m a tire salesman... 
 Good Lord... 
 Hey Jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new Michelin X1's? 
 Uh...lemme get back to you on that one... (looking at his name tag) Tommy... 
 (to Tommy) Thomas, why you bother Jack about that.  Look it up yourself... (to Jack) Okay Jack, we talk later... 
 Jack my boy!  You are looking mighty worse for the wear...Hey, guess who I played bridge with two nights ago...? 
 I’m gonna have to get back to you on that...Ed. 
 JACK (CONT’D) Do I have a private office somewhere in the building? 
 Uh...sure Jack... (nervously pointing) Right back there... 
 Thank you. 
 Bowlers do it in an alley?...Non profit lawyers do it for free... what is it with these people?  Don’t they realize this refers to sex? 
 JACK (CONT’D) At least you splurged on some decent scotch... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (to Jack in the photo) What are you smiling about...? 
 JACK (CONT’D) Number one...not bad. 
 JACK (CONT’D) 
 JACK (CONT’D) (to Jack in the photo) You never went to London... (picking up the photo) ...you never got on that plane... 
 (over P.A.) Jack to mag wheels...Jack, you’re needed in mag wheels, customer waiting! 
 ...I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988.  Did you know that? 
 No, I didn’t...that’s great. 
 That’s the kind of thing you can really build on... 
 Uh huh... 
 I mean sales has always been a feeder for M and A, always... 
 Here we are, mag wheels... (a little concerned) Hey Jack, are you sure you’re okay? 
 Well, I’m just a little confused right now about why I work here... 
 Uh...I just started here last Tuesday. 
 (to the customer) So you’re all set on the Skip Shift eliminator and the Brembo rotors. Jack’s our point man on alloy wheels... 
 (turning to Tommy) Do you know why do I work here...? 
 Because you’re the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey... (proudly, to the customer) Jack taught me everything I know about the business... 
 I taught you the business? 
 And he’s a crack-up. 
 Everything I taught you. I want to hear it all, right now. 
 Hey, I’m ready to buy here... 
 (to the customer) What do you want? 
 I want some alloy wheels. 
 Here.  These are great. You’ll need four. 
 But I don’t like these... 
 Hey, you heard the guy, I’m the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey. (turning to Tommy) Everything. 
 Okay... (hesitating) Rule number one, the customer is always right... 
 (into phone) ...I have no idea what our inventory level is, that’s why I’m asking you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Look, just send us what you sent us last month, okay...?  And keep doing that until further notice... 
 Got a minute, Jack? 
 I’ve got all the time in the world... 
 Jack, meet Sydney Potter, BuyRite Transport, one of Jersey’s top businessmen... 
 ...and a helluva bridge player.  Ed’s told me a lot about you... 
 (in a heavy Jersey accent) Lucky in cards, lucky in business, lucky in love. My cup runneth over... (to Big Ed) He’s a nice looking boy... 
 My daughter’s no slouch either... 
 Let’s cut to the chase, Jack.  Big Ed tells me you’re the grease that makes the wheels turn around here.  I need a new parts supplier for my fleet.  You seem to have the parts.  That we know.  What we don’t know is why the hell I should buy them from you. 
 I have no idea... 
 (nervous) C’mon Jack... 
 (to Potter) I mean it.  From what I can tell, we’re a mom and pop operation, we’re already over-extended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier... 
 JACK (CONT’D) So like I said, I don’t have any idea why you should buy your parts from us... 
 Okay, you got my attention... 
 Except for rule number one... 
 JACK (CONT’D) The customer is always right.  A cliché?  Sure. The difference is, we mean it.  We’re small, we need our customers.  We can’t afford to disappoint them, ever. Yeah, you could go to some leviathan supplier, probably save a few pennies on the price of oil filters, but with us you get more than a supplier, you get a bridge partner... 
 JACK (CONT’D) You want to bid hearts, we’re right there with you.  You feel the need to redouble, you’re not going to get any argument from us... 
 JACK (CONT’D) The big guys may have the high cards, but you know as well as I do, Sydney, high cards don’t always take the trick. 
 (to Big Ed, re: Jack) I like him... 
 (a wink to Jack) That’s my boy... (an arm around Potter) C’mon, lemme show you the rest of the ranch... 
 A Lamaze class...!? 
 What?!  That’s my deal? 
 The kids are asleep... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Jack.  I said the kids are asleep... 
 (distracted) Well that’s just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Hey!  I was watching that! 
 I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed. 
 I’m working on a new deal now... 
 Fine, but not tonight... 
 Wait a second.  You want me, don’t you? 
 That is the general idea, yes... 
 Shouldn’t we grab some dinner first?  Maybe a bottle of wine...? 
 It’s ten thirty, Jack. By eleven you’re gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We don’t have time for wining and dining. 
 Whatever you say...honey. 
 JACK (CONT’D) God...you’re beautiful... 
 Thanks, Jack... 
 No, I’m serious...you’re really stunning... 
 This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming... 
 I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, there’s no question about that.  But this... (lost in her) ...you’ve really grown into a beautiful woman... 
 How can you do that? 
 (nervous) Do what? 
 Look at me like you haven’t seen me every day for the last twelve years... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Don’t move. 
 KATE (CONT’D) ‘night, honey... 
 (back to Jack) We’re almost done here... 
 Mary Janes, Mom.  You promised. 
 That’s right.  Okay, let’s make a quick stop at the kids’ shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then I’ll run into the linen store... 
 Why don’t we just go to all the stores?! 
 JACK (CONT’D) Every single store in this godforsaken shopping mall.  We can go to them all. 
 You know what, Jack?! I’ll go with the kids. Why don’t you just hang out here in the men’s department... okay? 
 (O.S.) It’s perfect for your frame... 
 Would you like to try it on? 
 (O.S.) You look amazing in that suit... 
 I mean...wow...off the charts great. 
 It’s an unbelievable thing.  Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. (taking one final look) I’m gonna buy it... 
 $2,400?!  Are you out of your mind? 
 (pointing to Annie’s new Mary Janes) She got those shoes... 
 Those shoes were twenty five dollars.  C’mon, take it off.  We’ll go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like. 
 No. 
 No? 
 Do you have any idea what my life is like? 
 Excuse me? 
 I wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, Kate. 
 JACK (CONT’D) I pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...I play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if I’m lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that I always have to drive everyone everywhere?  I spend practically my entire day in that slow as hell mini-van listening to Raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...I’m sick of it. 
 Really. 
 What’s in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes? 
 It’s sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, Jack. 
 I can’t believe it’s not a disappointment to you! (letting it all out) Jesus, Kate, I could’ve been a thousand times the man I became.  How could you do this to me?  How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?! 
 Who are you? 
 (lowering his voice) Look, I’m sorry.  I’m sorry I was such a saint before and I’m such a prick now.  Maybe I’m just not the same guy I was when we got married... 
 Maybe you’re not.  The Jack Campbell I married wouldn’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if that’s what it’s gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids’ college fund. 
 Forget it... (taking off the jacket) We’ll get a funnel cake. It’ll be the highlight of my week... 
 (to Kate) Listen, I’m sorry about that back in the store. I really don’t want to fight with you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) But you must sometimes wonder how we ended up here.  I mean back in college, did you see us... (looking around) ...here...? 
 I’ll give you this, life has thrown us a few surprises... 
 It really has, hasn’t it?  So if you had to...what would you say was the biggest surprise? 
 Well...Annie for one. 
 Surprise.  We’re pregnant... (a laugh) Yeah...that must’ve been...I mean that was very unexpected.  But what are you gonna do, right? 
 I think it worked out okay, don’t you? 
 Sure.  I really like Annie. 
 Good, Jack.  Maybe we’ll keep her. 
 No, I love Annie.  We had a lot of good times, didn’t we? 
 We were young... (a nostalgic smile) Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to? 
 Charles Street?  In the Village?  When we were living in Greenwich Village...? (off her nod) Great times.  Why’d we ever leave? 
 You can’t really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village... 
 KATE (CONT’D) The trek out to the hospital every day didn’t help either... (looking at him) You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing... 
 You had a heart attack? 
 (a laugh) Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you... (a sigh) ...who knows what would’ve happened if you hadn’t stepped in at the store. 
 That’s why I work for Big Ed? 
 JACK (CONT’D) (recovering) I mean, that’s why I work for Big Ed... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (almost to himself) So we had a baby, Big Ed had a heart attack, we b ought that house, and I’ve been working for him ever since...Sayonara, Wall Street. 
 JACK (CONT’D) (turning to her) Our life in a nutshell... 
 If you want to look at it that way... 
 How would you look at it? 
 A great success story... 
 Damn... 
 (O.S., from behind) Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for god’s sake! 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Where’s your follow through?  Where’s your stance? 
 Hey, I’m doing the best I can... (under his breath) I’d like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers... 
 You’re right.  Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare... 
 (quietly, to himself) You are Jack Campbell. You’re better than this sport.  You shot the rapids at Kenai.  You ran with the bulls at Pamplona.  You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christ’s sake.  You can do this... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (screaming, excited) Yeah!! 
 (to TEAMMATE) Okay, Pete, you’re up. 
 Hi Jack... 
 Evelyn, right? 
 Very funny.  I saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something? 
 Something like that. 
 (with a wink) Need a nurse? 
 You’re a nurse? 
 If that’s what you want... 
 Wait a second... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Are we...? 
 Are we what, Jack? 
 Is there something going on between us? 
 Are we finally being honest? 
 It would help me if we were. 
 Okay, you’re right, we’ve been dancing around this for years... 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) God, my heart is racing. Here goes... (a smile) When I get dressed for a party and I know you’re going to be there... well, let’s just say I don’t go strapless because my husband likes it... 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) I’ve got six sets of snow tires piled up in my garage and I won’t even drive in the snow...And our kids just happen to be in the same ballet class every year? 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) So, if you’re asking me whether I’d like it to be more, the answer is yes... 
 EVELYN (CONT’D) ...and Kate would never have to know. 
 Do I have your number? 
 Steve’s out of town with the kids this week.  Why don’t you just stop by... 
 (looking at Jack) Hey Jack, you’re all flush.  I guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you. 
 (sitting down) I just saw Evelyn Thompson. 
 She is relentless. 
 She wants to have an affair with me. 
 She said that? 
 Pretty much. 
 Oh yeah... (shaking his head) What is it about you? 
 (pushing over a napkin) So could you write down her exact address? 
 Whoa...whoa...wait a second, Jack.  You’re not actually gonna cheat on Kate? 
 It wouldn’t really be cheating... (off Arnie’s doubtful  look) It’s complicated. 
 Look, maybe I’m not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one.  A little flirtation’s harmless but you’re playing with fire here.  The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor.  You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever. 
 I’m telling you, those rules don’t apply to me, Arn. 
 (a chuckle) Screw the rules.  I’m talking about the choice. 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) C’mon, Evelyn Thompson’s got no class.  She doesn’t marry Dr. Steve, the woman’s living in a trailer. 
 Hey, is that really necessary? 
 All I’m saying it there isn’t a guy in Union County who wouldn’t give his left nut to be married to Kate... 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) I’ll see ya later, Jack... 
 (not looking up) How was the game, honey? 
 (opening the fridge) Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it... (peering inside) Hey, where’s that chocolate cake...? 
 (with a smile) You mean this chocolate cake? 
 That’s my piece.  I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken. 
 It’s good... 
 Gimme that cake. 
 No way. 
 C’mon. 
 Sorry, Jack.  It’s too important to me. 
 I want that cake! 
 (laughing) You want the cake!? 
 (out of breath) I want it... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Thank you... 
 It’s good, right? 
 Are the kids asleep? 
 (caught up in the moment) Say it, Jack... 
 What...? 
 C’mon, you know what I like to hear... 
 (in the throes of passion) Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear... 
 (kissing him) Then say it...just say it to me...! 
 (swept up in the moment) Oh yeah, you’re a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...I’m gonna take you to that special place... 
 What...? 
 Not it...? 
 Nice, Jack.  You’re sweeping me off my feet. 
 What? You make me hot... 
 JACK (CONT’D) C’mon, Lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight... 
... 
 (pulling the leash) C’mon, girl, let’s go home... 
: 
 (O.S.) Jesus, Bill, this thing is an antique.  Don’t you even have image stabilization? 
 Four hundred bucks at Best Buy, Arn. 
 And everyone knows image stabilization is for the weak... 
 So Jack, it’s your wife’s birthday, got anything to say to her? 
 (to Kate) It’s your birthday? Today?  What’s your name?  Where were you born? 
 Jack. 
 Wait a minute.  You’re my wife? 
 JACK (CONT’D) I do have one thing I wanna say... 
 JACK (CONT”D) (singing to her) Oh those fingers in my hair, that sly come hither stare, strips my conscience bare, it’s witchcraft... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...and I’ve got no defense for it, that heat is too intense for it, what good would common sense for it do... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...‘Cause it’s witchcraft, wicked witchcraft...and although I know it’s strictly taboo...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed in me, proceed with what you’re leadin’ me to... 
 JACK (CONT’D) It’s such an ancient pitch, but one that I’d never switch, there ain’t no nicer witch than you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ‘Cause it’s witchcraft, that koo koo witchcraft...and although I know it’s strictly taboo... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed to me, proceed with what you’re leadin’ me to... 
 JACK (CONT’D) It’s such an ancient pitch, but one that I’d never switch... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ‘Cause there’s no nicer witch than you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...than you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...than you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (speaking quietly to Kate) Happy Birthday sweetheart...I love you. 
 (groggy) Time to get up, honey... 
 Happy Anniversary, honey... 
 KATE (CONT’D) (pushing the gift forward) Before you do whatever crazy stunt you’ve got planned I want you to open mine... 
 Maybe I should wait... 
 No, open it... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I found it at an outlet store.  I know it’s a knock-off, but I think it’ll look great on you... 
 (examining the label) Zeena... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (tearing up) You really are incredible... 
 Enjoy it, sweetheart... 
 You’re probably expecting something from me... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Here’s the thing.  I really hadn’t planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. (an uncomfortable smile) You know, anniversary’s good all day... 
 What are you talking about?  You never wait all day.  You can barely wait until it’s light out. 
 I know that, but... 
 You forgot. 
 KATE (CONT’D) You actually forgot our anniversary. 
 I’ll fix it.  I’ll go out right now and get you something.  I’ll make it right. 
 (holding back the tears) Jesus, Jack...Is this where we are now?  Is this our marriage? Suddenly I’m the wife who has to drop hints two weeks before her anniversary so her husband doesn’t fuck it up? 
 Please don’t cry... 
 (shaking her head, crying) I don’t want to be that, Jack... 
 C’mon...c’mon... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (shouting to the sky) C’mon, goddamnit, how was I supposed to know the date of their anniversary!?  I never married her! 
 (slowly) Put the bicycle back on the ground... 
 Not bad...I shoulda warned you.  Dad always does something really special for their anniversary. 
 Like what? 
 One year he had a solar system named after her... 
 Don’t you think that’s a little gimmicky? 
 Mom liked it. 
 Maybe there’s a jewelry store back at the mall. I could get her a pair of earrings or something. 
 That’s good but...you did forget the anniversary. 
 Right.  That’s a major oversight... (thinking aloud) So if I’m Kate...I can’t really afford the finer things, my husband’s career is a crushing disappointment to me, I’m trapped in suburbia... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Did he ever take her to the City? 
 You’re really gettin’ the hang of this. 
 Which do you think? 
 The black one... 
 Fighting’s a part of it, Annie.  You know that, right? 
 I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our ways... 
 C’mere. 
 (excited) Really? 
 Now go like this... 
 KATE (CONT’D) You’re gonna break a lot of hearts, you know. 
 You look beautiful... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (instinctively) Thanks, Catherine... 
 You okay? 
 Fine... 
 (quietly to Jack) Jack...can we afford all this? 
 What’s the difference? I’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs... 
 How do you even know about this place? 
 Arnie... (insistent) Arnie.  He’ll throw you a curve ball once in a while, that’s for sure... 
 We’ll have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts...sea scallops, North of the Caspian... 
 Very good, sir.  And may I say those are all excellent selections. 
 You may... (perusing the wine list) Also, we’ll have a bottle of Lafite, 1982. 
 It’s five hundred and fifty dollars, Jack! 
 Just a glass of red wine for each of us... 
 You are so not off the hook yet, slick. 
 But I’m gettin’ close, right? 
 JACK (CONT’D) You want to dance? 
 I don’t think there’s dancing here, Jack. 
 Sure there is... 
 (whispering to Jack) Pretty good for a tire salesman from Jersey... 
 I have my moments... 
 Mmmm... (spearing a scallop) ...here, try one of these... 
 (savoring the scallop) God I missed that taste... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Why are you laughing? 
 JACK (CONT’D) I need to tell you something. 
 Okay... 
 I think it may help us but there’s a slight chance it could make things worse. 
 Now I’m worried...just say it.  Whatever it is we’ll deal with it. 
 Are you sure? 
 JACK (CONT’D) I feel like I’m living someone else’s life... 
 JACK (CONT’D) I used to be so sure about everything, you know?  I knew exactly who I was and what I wanted. Then one morning I woke up and suddenly it was all different... 
 Worse, you mean... 
 No.  Well, maybe a few things.  But mostly just different... 
 JACK (CONT’D) I never used to be like this, Kate.  I had it all figured out.  No doubts, no regrets. 
 And now...? 
 Now...I don’t... 
 Me neither. 
 KATE (CONT’D) I think it’s good to be a little unsure about who you are.  It’s very human. 
 But you always seem so certain. 
 C’mon, Jack, you think there aren’t mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell I’m doing in New Jersey... 
 That’s a big one for me, too. 
 My office is a dump, I answer my own phone...and you’ve seen my pay check. 
 Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks. 
 I mean yes, I help people that need it... 
 I guess...some of them are probably faking. 
 (a laugh, then...) God, sometimes I think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a CD player... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you... 
 It’s wonderful... 
 I think about it, too, Jack.  I do.  I think about the kind of person I’d be if I hadn’t married you... 
 And...? 
 And I realize I’ve just erased the things in my life I’m most sure about.  You, the kids... 
 Good things... 
 What are you sure about? 
 I’m sure that right now there’s nowhere I’d rather be than here with you... 
 This is so beautiful... 
 KATE (CONT’D) You know champagne makes me do crazy things. 
 (pouring) I’ll just full yours up to the top. (handing her a glass) Happy anniversary, sweetheart. 
 I don’t know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off. 
 I’m out of the doghouse? 
 Way out... 
 KATE (CONT’D) (turning to him) You may even get lucky tonight... 
 You’re so...beautiful... 
 I already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack... 
 My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you... 
 (a wide smile) That’s all I wanted to hear... 
 Mmmm...Jack... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I feel like I should give you money... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I mean, my god, Jack you were always good but this...this was... like a porno movie. 
 KATE (CONT’D) I could stay here forever... 
 I don’t think I’d fight you on that one... 
 Have a good day... 
 For the money, they’re hands down the best radial we carry... 
 (thinking, then...) Okay, I’ll take them... 
 You won’t regret it... (shouting to Tommy) Tommy!  Set Mr. Conlin up with four B.F. Goodrich G-Force T/A’s... (looking the man over) ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume... 
 (O.S.) (over P.A. system) Jack, Kate on line two! Jack pick up two! 
 (walking out to Jack) Kate’s on two, Jack. (on seeing the Rolls) Nice ride... 
 (staring at Lassiter) If you’re into that kind of conspicuous consumption... 
 You want me to handle him?  I think I’m ready... 
 (O.S.) (over P.A. system) Jack!  Kate still holding on line two... 
 Sure...be careful, he looks like a tough negotiator... 
 (to Estelle, into intercom) Tell Kate I’ll call her back... 
 (into intercom) It sounded pretty important. 
 (into intercom) I’m with a customer. I’ll call her back. 
 (to Kenny) I seem to have had some kind of blow out... 
 Why don’t you let me take this one, Kenny? 
 Okay, chief. 
 Peter Lassiter... 
 (surprised) Do I know you? 
 Not exactly. I’ve seen you on CNBC. (with a smile) You look taller in real life... 
 ...truth is, Mintz was so busy timing his wife’s breathing he didn’t see that MedTech needed Global more than the other way around.  Ten days, two weeks tops, they would’ve approached you with an offer, and I’d bet anything it would’ve been thirty billion, not twenty nine... (a knowing smile) Problem was, Peter, you had a pussycat running the show. What you needed was a rottweiler. 
 (nodding) Well, I’m impressed. 
 LASSITER (CONT’D) I really am... 
 LASSITER (CONT’D) So, about my car... 
 Sure. We’re going to have to special order that tire. It’ll be ready in about two days. 
 This has my office address on it... (thinking, then...) Why don’t you drop it off yourself? 
. 
 ...I say to her, Margarita, we already have four kids, why do we need more? 
 HECTOR (CONT’D) But she say she want an even number. I say four is an even number! But she say she want six. 
 HECTOR (CONT’D) I tell her, Margarita, I just got my green card, I like to sit back and rest a little bit... 
 (interrupting) Hector...do I usually listen to your personal problems? 
 Sure, Jack, all the time... 
 Look, I have some business that I have to take care of in the city so I’m leaving early... (getting up) My advice to you...follow your dreams. 
 ...we’re really more of a boutique operation, as you can see... 
 But you’re not interested in boutique dollars... (a smile) I get it... 
 MINTZ’S ASSISTANT (seeing Lassiter) He’s expecting you, Mr. Lassiter... 
 (to Mintz) Alan, this is Jack Campbell...the one I was telling you about... 
 Jack, of course. 
 (appropriately deferential) Mr. Mintz. 
 Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here... 
 (re: play pen) I can see that, Alan. 
 You have kids, Jack? 
 (hesitating, then...) Uh...actually, yes. Two... good ones. 
 That’s great... (gesturing to the sofa) Why don’t you have a seat? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) So, Peter mentioned that you were an avid CNBC watcher but didn’t say whether you had any actual Wall Street experience? 
 I was a sales associate, at E.F. Hutton. 
 A broker? Really. And now you’re in the tire business? 
 That’s right. And auto supply... 
 Uh huh. The retail end, I understand. 
 Uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service. 
 Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? Ballpark... 
 We did one point seven million in total revenue... 
 Uh huh...one point seven. And what do you project for this year? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) Any thoughts at all on that? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) Jack? 
 Well, Alan, I think we’re gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account. 
 Really. So you’re projecting what, a tad over two million? 
 That’s right. And that would make us number one in our market... (getting up) You mind if I stand? 
 JACK (CONT’D) Look, I know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year.  And I know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger... 
 I’m not trying to knock the tire business, Jack. 
 (a confident chuckle) It’s okay, Alan. I get it. I’m in your shoes, I’m thinking exactly the same thing...but here’s the thing. Business is business.  Wall Street, Main Street, it’s all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell they’re gonna send their kids to college.  It’s just people... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And I know people. 
 I’m sure you do... 
 (intervening) Let’s let the man have his say... 
 (to Mintz) Take you, for instance... 
 (defensive) What about me? 
 You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. You’re an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And your wife decorated this office... 
 He certainly has your number, Alan. 
 (turning to Lassiter) You’re a little tougher, Peter. 
 JACK (CONT’D) For one thing, you like expensive things. 
 (smiling proudly) That’s easy. You’ve seen my car. 
 (a chuckle) Okay...you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. You’re a scotch man, single malt, not because it’s trendy but because you’ve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And you’re a man who prides himself on finding talent in unusual places... 
 Oh? And how would you know that? 
 Because I’m here. 
 JACK (CONT’D) I’m prepared to do anything it takes to get this job. Start anywhere you need me to start. I’ll park cars if I to... (into Lassiter’s eyes) The biggest part of judging character is knowing yourself. And I know this, I can do this job. Give me a chance, Peter, I won’t let you down. 
 (to Mintz) Alan, why don’t you show Jack around a bit... 
 I’d love to. 
 (pointing) ...that’s our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile. 
 (not particularly impressed) Seven.  Really. 
 Let’s cut the shit, huh Campbell? What, did you go through his wallet or something? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) No matter. That circus act back there may have dazzled Lassiter momentarily but it doesn’t do shit forme. Even if you get this job, which I highly doubt, let me warn you, Lassiter loses interest in his pet projects very quickly. I’m in the big office because I’ve proved myself to him year after year and nobody is going to come in here and start turning the old man’s head. Especially not some tire salesman from New Jersey. So you watch yourself and stay away from Lassiter, and maybe, just maybe, I’ll keep you on after he gets tired of you. Do we understand each other? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) Do we?! 
 God, you really are different, aren’t you... (nodding) I mean...wow...I am impressed. 
 JACK (CONT’D) Good for you. Why shouldn’t you protect what’s yours. 
 I don’t think you’re hearing me. 
 Oh, I’m hearing you, Alan. That’s not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine.  And I don’t care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back... (poking him in the chest) So do yourself a favor and don’t get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office. 
 JACK (CONT’D) Oh, and by the way, you try selling tires for a living.  I promise you, you’d starve. 
 Welcome to Xanadu... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Pretty incredible, isn’t it? 
 It’s like a museum. 
 KATE (CONT’D) (turning to Jack) So what’s the big surprise? You didn’t rent this place for the weekend, did you? 
 Think bigger. 
 For the week? 
 This place is a perk, Kate. 
 A perk for what? 
 A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives... 
 JACK (CONT’D) You’re talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions. 
 What are you talking about, Jack? 
 I’m going into arbitrage, honey.  Turns out I have a knack for it.  I’ll be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and that’s just to start.  And, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want. 
 JACK (CONT’D) We can finally afford to move back into the city. In style. 
 Are you out of your mind? 
 I don’t think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey.  We’ll put Annie and Josh in private schools... 
 Annie goes to a great school. 
 I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate... 
 Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job? 
 This is New York City, it’s like the needy people capital of the world.  Those Jersey clients of yours aren’t a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here... 
 (cutting him off) I can’t believe you want to move back into the city.  I thought the reason we left was because we didn’t want to raise the kids here? 
 No, this is the center of the universe.  If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else?  Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon. 
 (cutting him off) Jack. 
 Look, I’m detecting a kind of funky tension here...We don’t have to live in this apartment. I don’t need this...I’ll commute...I’ll drive to work... 
 In traffic?  It’s over an hour each way?  That’s almost three hours a day.  When are you going to see the kids? 
 Kate. You’re not understanding me. I’m talking about a great life.  A perfect life. Everything we pictured when we were young. The whole package. You said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. But now I can finally get us back on track... 
 JACK (CONT’D) I can do that.  I want to do that.  For all of us. I need to do that as a man... (imploring her) Think about it.  No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow... 
 Then get a goddamn snow blower! 
 KATE (CONT’D) Don’t get a new career without even telling me. Don’t take Annie out of a school she loves.  Don’t move us out of a house we’ve become a family in... 
 KATE (CONT’D) (quietly) Don’t do that... 
 Look, you’re making this into something it’s not. This isn’t a referendum on our lives, Kate. It’s a step forward... (appealing to her) Don’t you see?  I’m talking about us finally having a life other people envy. 
 They already do envy us, Jack... 
 Very nice. What is it? 
 Mary Had A Little Lamb. 
 Ah. A classic... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Please don’t stop... 
 From London to New York...? (looking up) I came back... 
 Our finest moment, right... 
 KATE (CONT’D) When you got on that plane I was sure it was over.  I left the airport afraid I’d never see you again.  And then you showed up the very next day... (a wistful smile) That was a good surprise... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I think about you on that plane, about what must have been going through your mind...you sitting there imagining our life together, our life apart...I think about the decision you made... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Maybe I was being naive but I believed we’d grow old together in this house.  That we’d spend holidays here, have g randchildren visit us here.  I had this image of us all grey and wrinkly, me working in the garden, you repainting the deck... 
 KATE (CONT’D) Things change, right? People change... (pausing) If you need this, Jack, I mean really need this, I will take these children from a life they love, and take myself from the only home we’ve ever shared, and move wherever you need to go.  I’ll do that because I love you... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I love you, Jack. And that’s more important to me than our address... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I choose us. 
 (whispering in Jack’s ear) I knew you’d come back... 
 What are you doing? 
 (a curious look) Ringing my bell... 
 Four ninety nine?! It’s just salt for god’s sake... 
 (O.S.) That’ll be sixty five cents, little angel... 
 You...! 
 JACK (CONT’D) What are you doing here... 
 JACK (CONT’D) You’re not sending me back... 
 Jack, it’s good to see you... 
 CASH (CONT’D) (to the girl) Thank you darlin’... 
 CASH (CONT’D) (back to Jack, seeing the rock salt) What do you got there, rock salt?  Look at you, all domestic and shit... You really figured some things out, huh? 
 I’m not going back... 
 (to the girl) Everything okay...? 
 Yeah...fine. 
 (raising his voice) Hey! Did you hear me...?! 
 (making a note in his book) 
 Hey, I’m talking to you! I am not going back, do you understand...?! 
 JACK (CONT’D) You can’t do this. You can’t keep coming in and out of people’s lives, messing things up... 
 C’mon, Jack... 
 I’ve got kids, I’m going home... 
 You know what the word glimpse means, J? It’s by nature an impermanent thing. 
 (pointing at Cash) I’m staying. 
 (stirring, groggy) Is it morning yet? 
 No, honey. Go back to sleep. 
 JACK (CONT’D) Take care of yourself, Annie.  I’m going back to the mother ship... 
 (looking up from her book) Hey... 
 These last weeks, Kate, I know that I’ve done some...some unusual things. 
 It’s been interesting, that’s for sure. 
 But I’ve done some good things too, haven’t I? 
 You’ve been Jack Campbell.  And that’s always a good thing... 
 I need you to remember me, Kate.  How I am right now, right this very moment.  I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens. 
 Are you okay, Jack? 
 Please, just promise me you’ll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you don’t, then it’s like it never happened and I don’t think I could live with that. 
 I promise, Jack... 
 Promise me again... 
 I promise. Come to bed, honey. 
 Soon... 
 A 
 (groggy, dazed) Yeah...okay, send her up... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (sadly) Damnit. 
 Waiting for me by the door, huh? 
 Paula... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (momentarily distracted) That’s totally see through... 
 (smiling) Merry Christmas... 
 (confused) Christmas?  It can’t be Christmas... 
 (lasciviously) It’s whatever you want it to be, Jack... 
 PAULA (CONT’D) Jack?...Jack! 
 Can I help you? 
 Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?! 
 Kate? No, there’s no one here named Kate.  Is that good enough for you? 
 Damn...damn...damn... 
 Hey, are you okay? 
 No...I’m not... 
 Is there anything I can do for you? 
 MAN (CONT’D) Hey, my wife’s in the kitchen. You got a cigarette? 
 I’m sorry, no... 
 (shouting at Jack) Hey, you can’t park that thing here. 
 (out the window) It’s me, Jack... 
 I don’t care if you’re Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still can’t park here. 
 Tell me you recognize me, Arnie.  Please... 
 How’d you know my name? 
 We bowl together. We’re bowlers ...we won a championship...we’re winners. 
 I never won anything in bowling. 
 ARNIE (CONT’D) Wait a second... (thinking) Jack...Jack... 
 Yes...Jack Campbell... 
 Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? (at the Ferrari) You’re doing well... 
 (remembering) Yes, that’s it...yes, we went to high school together. 
 You never really talked to me.  I wanted to talk to you, man... 
 Yeah...I guess I just wanted you to know, we could’ve been really good friends... 
 (answering phone) Hello? 
 (O.S.) Hey Santa, where are you? Everybody’s here. 
 Adelle? 
 (O.S.) You were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? They’re all panicked here... 
 ADELLE (CONT’D, O.S.) Jack...? Are you going through the tunnel? 
 I’ll be there in twenty minutes... 
 (into phone) Thank god, Jack’s here. I’ll call you right back... 
 ALAN (CONT’D) (approaching) Jack, are you okay? 
 (in a daze) What’s going on here? 
 It’s not good.  Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. We’re not sure which one, Julia’s on it right now. Word is they’re willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company.  The Global people are up in arms.  They say we should’ve been prepared for this.  We’re in trouble here, Jack... 
 You know something, Alan. There’s a much more assertive person somewhere inside of you... 
 Excuse me? 
 But I think I like you better this way... 
 Is this another one of those Sun Tzu “Art of War” tricks? 
 No. 
 So what are we gonna do, Jack? 
 ALAN (CONT’D) Jack...? 
 I’ll tell you exactly what we’re going to do.  You’re going to do whatever you have to do to find out which European company he’s been talking to.  Then I’m going to clean myself up, fly to Aspen, and drink egg nog with Bob Thomas.  His wife and kids will be playing in the background while I spend Christmas day convincing him that the European company is the devil and Global is the answer to his prayers, after all... (growing wistful) Then I’m going to spend four hours skiing. Alone. On Christmas day. Completely and utterly alone. I’m going to do that because that is my life, that is what’s real, and there is nothing I can do to change that... 
 (dialing 411) For Manhattan...Kate Reynolds...I need an address too... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Make a right here... 
 But the airport’s the other way... 
 We’re not going to the airport... 
 Are you from the shipping company? 
 I’m Jack Campbell...I’m an old... friend of Kate’s. I just called. 
 (O.S.) Kate! Some guy’s here! 
 (O.S) (to Lori) Did you call the airline like I asked?! 
 Kate... 
 Jack...God, it’s been so long...You look... 
 You look great. 
 It’s good to see you... 
 KATE (CONT’D) (yelling inside) Lori! Where’s that box?! 
 (bending down) I'm sorry... 
 Don’t worry about it, Jack... 
 What’s going on? 
 (searching around) I’m moving to Paris...it was right here... (to Lori) It’s a box marked “Jack.”  I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army... 
 Paris? 
 (to Kate, with attitude) Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline? 
 Hey, kind of under a little pressure here. 
 Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss here. 
 You didn’t seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you. 
 Maybe it’s by the wardrobe boxes... 
 You’re moving... 
 Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and I’m going to be heading it up. 
 (stunned) To Paris. Paris, France. 
 (searching the boxes) That’s the one... 
 So you’re not at a non- profit firm? 
 (a chuckle) Not with what they pay me... 
 You’re not married, are you? 
 No, Jack, I never got married. You? 
 Not exactly... (looking around) Can we just take a minute here?  Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...? 
 (yelling) I’ll go for a cup of coffee! 
 Yes! 
 KATE (CONT’D) I found it! 
 Congratulations. The La Guardia flight’s canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what? 
 Here you go.  It’s just some old things of yours... 
 Do you ever think about us, Kate?  About what might have happened...? 
 You’re serious... 
 KATE (CONT’D) I’ll tell you what, Jack, if you’re ever in Paris, look me up. Maybe we’ll go for that cup of coffee. 
 Sure. Goodbye, Kate. 
... 
 (calling out) Kate! 
 JACK (CONT’D) You can’t go! 
 Jesus, Jack... 
 Don’t get on that plane! 
 Jack. 
 Please. Let’s just go have a cup of coffee. That’s all I’m asking for. I’m sure there’s another flight to Paris tonight. 
 What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay? 
 KATE (CONT’D) Well it is. Yes, I was heartbroken ...But I got over it. I moved on. People change, Jack. I changed. I don’t know why you suddenly feel the need to revisit that time in our lives but I assure you, it’s over... 
 (at Kate) We have a house in Jersey! 
 Don’t do this, Jack... But he continues... 
 We have two kids, Annie and Josh... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...Annie’s not much of a violin player but she tries really hard. She’s a little precocious but that’s only because she says what’s on her mind. And when she smiles... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And Josh...he has your eyes. He doesn’t say much but we know he’s smart... (lost in the memory) ...he’s always got his eyes open, always watching us... sometimes you can look at him and just know that he’s learning something new... it’s like witnessing a miracle... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...the house is a mess, but it’s ours... (chuckling) ...well, after a hundred twenty two more payments it will be... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And you...you’re a non- profit lawyer. That’s right, completely non-profit. But that doesn’t seem to bother you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And we’re in love. After thirteen years of marriage we’re still unbelievably in love... (with a chuckle) You won’t even let me touch you until I’ve said it... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...I sing to you...not all the time but definitely on special occasions... 
 JACK (CONT’D) (off hand, to passenger) Excuse me... (to Kate) We made a lot of sacrifices, dealt with our share of surprises, but we stayed together... 
 JACK (CONT’D) You see, you’re a better person than I am... 
 JACK (CONT’D) ...and it made me a better person to be around you... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Maybe it was all a dream. Maybe I went to bed one lonely night in December and imagined it all. But I swear, nothing’s ever felt more real to me... 
 JACK (CONT’D) And if you get on that plane right now, it’ll disappear forever. 
 JACK (CONT’D) I know we can both go on with our lives. And we’d both be fine. But I’ve seen what we can be like together...And I choose us... 
 JACK (CONT’D) Please, Kate, one cup of coffee. You can always go to Paris. Just please, not tonight... 
 
