 
 
 (PAUSE) Sometimes. 
 (PAUSE) With my toys. He looks up, but we're close in on him and can't see who he's looking at. JAKE (cont'd) My... blue sword. No! The one with the gray tape around the middle. That one. He lands the airplane on the water. He giggles. JAKE (coast' d) That's silly. MAGGIE (o.s.) (from the bedroom) Jake? You all right in there? 
 (calling out to the door) 
! The airplane takes off again. Jake lowers his voice to a whisper. JAKE (cont'd) What? 
 (PAUSE) My daddy, but he doesn't know about it yet. He brings the airplane in for a careful water landing and lets go of it. He looks up. 
 Who you talkin' to, Jake? He turns to her and whispers. 
 It's a secret. 
 Well, I was walking in the night, and I saw nothing scary. For I have never been afraid of anything. Not very. I was deep within the woods when, suddenly, I spied them. I saw a pair of pale green pants with nobody inside them! I wasn't scared. But, yet, I stopped. What could those pants be there for? What could a pair of pants at night be standing in the air for? Maggie leans in the doorway and whispers. 
 Is he asleep? My brother's here. 
 What are the odds of a single woman being at this thing? 
 `Bout a million to one. 
 Any hot mommies? 
 Depends. How big you like `em? The hot engine of a Yellow Trans-Am fires up in the driveway of the house across the street. It backs into the street, its passenger door hanging open. The DRIVER honks the horn and a SEVENTEEN YEAR OLD KID runs out of another house and jumps into the moving vehicle. They take off. The Homeless Guy berates them, shaking his fist. They reach the steps of the house next door. PARTY NOISE comes from within, shadows move in the windows. Tom swings Maggie around, puts her on the step, wraps his arms around her, and kisses her. Great kiss. It goes on. 
 Excuse me, hello, I enjoy soft-core as much as the next guy, but this is almost like incest for me. 
 (still kissing Tom) Should we tell him? 
 Sure. 
 I'm pregnant. 
 Get the fuck outta here! He grabs Maggie and hugs her. Tom starts up the steps. (cont' d) Look at this, I haven't even had a second date in a year and a half, you guys are on your second kid! Philip catches up to Tom and throws his arms around him. (cont' d) You big huggable bear. You're still goin' back to school, though, right? You promised me. 
 I don't know, I just found out about this. 
 I'm telling you, if you never go back to college you'll regret it for the rest of your life. The memories I have of being a freshman -- those were three of the happiest years of my life. 
 Seven years, and I've still never been to a party where you weren't the one I wanted to hang with. She smiles, melted, and they part. Tom joins the men. BOBBY, Vanessa's husband, an athletic-looking guy holding a sleeping three-year-old on his shoulder, talks with FRANK McCARTHY, fortyish, big Irish drinker, and HARRY DAMON, who is also older than the rest. 
 Tom-Tom-Tommy, how are ya? He shoves a beer into Tom's hand. 
 Alive on the planet. (nods to Harry) Harry. 
 Hello, Tom. Takin' care of the place? 
 Actually, I'm drillin' holes in all the floors, Harry. 
 (as Tom drinks) That's it, take the medicine deep into your body. Good, good. 
 So how you likin' the neighborhood? 
 Well, I grew up about a mile from here, it ain't like a foreign country. 
 The hell it isn't! This is the best God damn neighborhood in Chicago, `cause we look out for each other, and that's sayin' a lot as we approach the Year of our Lord two thousand. 
 What are you, runnin' for Mayor? 
 Hey, did any of you guys see those Dominican crack dealers hangin' around the park again? Everybody GROANS. 
 (to Bobby) What is Lenny doing here? Did you tell him you were having a party?! 
 Vanessa made me. 
 Yeah, laugh it up, laugh it up, and when you all wake up dead with your throats cut some night -- 
 I mean, I could see if he just heard the noise and wandered in, but to actually invite him into your home.. . 
 -- don't come cryin' to me! 
 Not attracted to... -- SHEILA, a thin, nervous woman around Frank's age -- (cont' d) Not drunk enough for... -- and a LOUD WOMAN with enormous hair. (cont' d) Frightened by... 
 How did you and Tom meet? 
 He saved my life. 
 No, really. 
 I'm serious. The summer I was nineteen, I was at Jones Beach, I swam out too far and got a cramp in my leg. There was no way I was gonna make it back. I was goin' down, I was swallowing water and everything. Tom was a lifeguard. I don't know what he was doing out that far, he said he just had a feeling. 
 Oh my God, did you have sex with him like, that night? 
 Had to. He said I'm his slave until I saved him back. 
 That's so romantic. Bobby and I met when I peed in the guys' john at a Bon Jovi concert. She hits "puree" on the blender. 
 P(ople who say they were hypnotized weren't really, they were just, you kn)w, playing along. 
 Then how could they have needles stuck into their throats without bleeding? Without even making a sound? 
 Bullshit. 
 You never saw that happen. 
 Uh, hello, I had a two inch needle stuck right into the thick of my arm, by my professor, while I was under hypnosis. 
 Bullshit! 
 You're making it up! 
 That's disgusting! 
 I saw his arm the next day. It left a mark. 
 Bullshit! 
 Can you learn another word? 
 Prove it. 
 Yeah, let's see. 
 Hypnotize somebody. Hypnotize Vanessa. 
 Oh, no. Uh uh. 
 Why not? 
 Because, I .night make a fool out of myself! I n. ;.ght, I don't know, expose myself or sowething. She clutches her arms around her breasts as she says that. You get the feeling she'd like to expose herself. 
 I thought you didn't believe in it. 
 I don't, but -- do Maggie. 
 Yeah, right. 
 You do it, Sheila. We promise not to make you do a strip tease on the kitchen table. Sheila glares at him. They must be fun to hang out with. 
 That's what I'd do! That's exactly the kind of thing I'm afraid I'd do! 
 Hey Frank, you're the one who's so curious, why don't you- 
 No. 
 Ah, that's different. Whaddya got to hide? 
 No fuckin' way, I ain't gonna do it. Tom sits forward. 
 What the hell? I'll try anything once. 
 A, a hand switches off the lamp on the table. Another hand turns off the lamp in the corner. The music is turned off. Tom sits in the armchair in the n3arly-darkened room. Philip shoves the coffee table back and sits on it, directly in front of him. The others crowd around expectantly, silent. 
 No sound.from anyone, please. Any distraction can break it up. He raises his index finger and holds it about a foot in front of Tom's face. (cont' d) Okay. Look at it. 
 Damn fine lookin' finger. Laughter. 
 
 Can you clean out the nail, it's kinda makin' me sick here. Philip raises two fingers and jabs Tom in the eyes. (cont' d) Hey, what the fuck? 
 Shall we try this again? 
 (rubbing his eyes) Asshole. 
 Look at me, Tom. You're not afraid of this. You want this to happen. Don't you? 
 Poke me again you son of a batch and I'll clock you, I swear to Go'.. 
 Philip, have you ever done this before? 
 Maggie, please, I nearly have a master's degree in cognitive psy- 
 Have you ever done it before? 
 Well, I've seen it done a dozen times. 
 Try not to screw him up permanently. 
 (to Tom) You want to be hypnotized. Say yes. 
 Yeah. 
 "I want to be hypnotized." 
 I want to be fuckin' hypnotized, already. 
 Okay. Close your eyes. As Tom does, our eyes close too, big heavy lashes dropping over everything and plunging us into blackness. (o.s.) Just listen for a moment. 
. We stare at that word for a moment -- -- and then everything goes black. No sound, no image, no nothing. And then... 
 Didn't work, huh? All six faces burst out laughing, a great nervous tension released. Somebody turns the lights back on, somebody else hits the music. (cont' d) What? More laughter. Philip seems very pleased with himself. Maggie comes and sits on the arm of the chair next to Tom, puts her hand on his face. 
 Are you okay? 
 Did somethin' happen? People start talking, all at once. 
 You were faking it. You had to be faking it. 
 What are you talking about? 
 That was the weirdest thing I've ever seen in my whole fuckin' life. 
 How do you feel? 
 How am I supposed to feel? 
 A little.., hot, maybe? EveryboJy laughs again. Tom wipes his forehead. He's covered with sweat. He gets up. He doesn't like this at all, being the only one not in on the joke. 
 What'd you do to me? 
 Nothing much. Just had you stretched out as stiff as a board between those two chairs -- He points to two dining room chairs that are sitting back to back four or five feet apart. (cont' d) (lighting a lighter) -- and ran this back and forth under your legs. Tom feels the backs of his legs. He looks at Maggie. 
 That happened? 
 You said it didn't hurt at all. And he kept it moving. 
 Hey, thanks a lot, it was very nice of you not to burn my flesh. 
 Joey Ariola woulda burned it. They laugh again. Tom looks at him, stunned. 
 Who? 
 The kid who beat you up all the time when you were twelve. You told us all about him. You were cryin' and everything. 
 (low, to Vanessa) Don't. 
 Not time yet. 
 What? 
 
 Not time for what? 
 Tom, you didn't do anything embarrassing or anything. 
 Aright, somebody else go. Come on, let's go, somebody else, right now. 
 Tom, look -- 
 Nobody? Well, then I guess the party's over, ain't it? (to Maggie) Let's go. Come on, let's go home. 
 You're getting a little too worked up about this. 
 You know, I don't think so, because I'll tell you something, it's a very nasty feeling to know somebody's been fuckin' around in your head for everybody else's amusement, you know? (lightening up a bit) I mean, Joey Ariola, Christ, I haven't thought about him in maybe ten years, and -- come on, man, somebody else has gotta go. Don't make me be the only- 
 Why'd you do that, Tom? 
 I... have no idea. Even more laughter, now everybody's slapping him on the back. Tom nods, "yeah, yeah, laugh it up." 
 I couldn't resist. Tom cranks an arm around Philip's neck and pulls him down, choking him. But it's playful, his sense of humor returning. 
 Any other surprises you left in my head, you fuckin' dead man, you? 
 I hope it's a girl, I can't help it. Six brothers, I mean, give me a break. I'm sick of all these balls around the house. He doesn't laugh. She rolls over, strokes his chest with one hand. (cont' d) What's the matter? 
 Two kids. I'm only twenty-six. How did this happen? She slides one hand down, under the covers. 
 (imitating him) "Please, baby, please baby, just this one time, I can't feel anything with one of those on." 
 No, I now how it happened, I'm just sayin'... You're gonna have to stop work, at least for a while. I'll be workin' Saturdays for at least another year, maybe two. 
 You don't have to. We'll get by, we always do. Tom stares at a dark brown water stain on the ceiling. 
 How many times I gotta ask Harry to fix that? He said he fixed this place up, so how come the roof leaks every time it rains? 
 Relax. Her hand is moving. He twists. 
 Maggie, you don't think, I mean, ten, twelve years from now... I don't want you to think I'm gonna be a line man forever, you know, like Frank or somethin'. 
 It's a good job. You know how many guys would kill for your job? 
 I'm smarter than that, I know I am. 
 (kisses his ear) Relax. She's making it hard for him to concentrate. 
 I'm smarter than Philip, Christ, six years in college, he's still got his head up his ass. I just want you to know, this ain't where I plan to stop. She licks his ear. He closes his eyes. (cont' d) All my life, I feel like there's something better inside me, it's trying like hell to get out and it's like x won't let it. She rolls on top of him and whispers. 
 Let me help. 
 .the fuck, man? He puts his hands to the side of his head. It hurts. A lot. Maggie stirs, but doesn't wake up. Tom gets up and walks out. As he passes Jake's room, he does a double take. 
 
 (WHISPERS) Jake? The little boy doesn't answer. Tom walks slowly over to the boy and squats down in front of him, putting his arms on the boy's shoulders. TOM (cont' d) Are you okay? Jake just looks at Tom, straight into his father's eyes. The boy's face lights up in a wide smile. He reaches out with one hand and rests his fingertips on Tom's forehead. 
 Don't be afraid of it, Daddy. The hell does that mean? But before Tom can respond, Jake turns, climbs back in bed, rolls over to face the wall, and goes back to sleep. 
 I You can kiss me if you want to. Tom bolts to his feet and staggers away from the couch. The woman stares intently at him and says something else, but her words are lost under the rising sound of static on the television. 
 What?! She repeats, but he can only see her lips moving, the words are lost under the static. Realizing, Tom turns hurriedly toward the TV and hits the mute switch. When he turns back -- -- the woman is gone. He stands in the middle of the room, looking all around him. But he's alone. 
 A drops over him and he nearly jumps out of his skin. It's Maggie, rolling over to embrace him in her sleep. He takes her hand in his and lies still, eyes wide open. 
 What do you mean, like... You mean like a hallucination? 
 Maybe. I was awake, I know that. She nods, thinking, no idea how to deal with this. 
 Did you, uh, get her name? 
 You know, she didn't menti. -in it. 
 You sure you weren't dreami.g? 
 Positive. I had this headache like you wouldn't believe, and I was thirsty as hell. 
 What should we do? You want to call Philip? 
 Yeah, I'll call him. But I don't think he's got a fuckin' clue in life. From the living room, Jake laughs uproariously at something on the TV. 
 How about my cousin Elizabeth? 
 I don't need brain surgery, I just had a weird thing happen, that's all. Like a hypnosis hangover. One-time deal, don't worry about it. 
 Well, if anything like this happens again, we should go talk to Elizabeth. 
 Maggie... 
 Promise me. 
 I promise. 
. Tom jumps a foot. He gets out of the car. ADAM McCARTHY, seventeen, climbs off the hood, embarrassed. 
 Jesus, you guys scared the shit out of me! The kid with Adam doesn't seem embarrassed, he just reaches for the football. Tom beats him to it. (cont' d) You gotta play right here in the middle of the street? Frank is out of his house now, approaching the truck. He wears the same uniform shirt as Tom, carries a tool belt over his shoulder. 
 Lighten up, Tommy, you sound like your own grandfather . 
 (looking at his hood) Aw man, it's dented. This ain't even my truck. They're gonna dock me for this. 
 That'll pop right out. Use one of them plunger things. Adam, say you're sorry. 
 I'm really sorry, Mr. Witzky. 
 There you go, he said he's sorry, whaddya want from a kid. Let's go. Frank gets in the truck. The other football players walk toward Tom, calling for the ball. KURT DAMON, a great-looking seventeen year old, stares pointedly at the ball in Tom's hand. Tom looks at him. 
 Hell of an arm ya got there. Kurt smiles and shrugs. Tom tosses the ball back to him. Kurt turns and catches it behind his back as he walks away. 
 That Damon kid, he's gonna break your old passing records this Friday. 
 Bound to happen some time. 
 Comin' to the game? 
 (starts the car) Yeah, I'm comin', I'm comin' HARRY (o.s.) Hey, Tom! Tom turns. Harry Damon, the guy from across the street, is headed toward him. But Tom notices something behind Harry. A police car has turned onto the block and is rolling to a stop. 
 It's still two days yet, isn't it? Tom looks more closely at the Cop. He realizes the Cop isn't looking at him, he's looking past him, toward Tom's house. 
 Yeah, just thought you'd want to get it out of your hair. 
 
 I can wait. Hey, Frank, some game we picked to miss last night, huh? How many yards Adam end up with? Tom turns in his seat, following the Cop's line of vision. 
 Two hundred eleven and two touchdowns. Harry lets out a low whistle. Tom sees what the Cop is looking at so intently -- it's Jake, who's playing on the sidewalk in front of their house while Maggie watches. Tom turns back, but as he does the police car is just pulling away. 
 WOMAN'S VOICE. VOICE (o.s.) (on phone line) -which was okay, I guess, but then he told me he loves me, and it was just like, oh my God, can you please make yourself any less attractive? Tom pulls off the clip and picks another line. Now it's a 
 Phil, it's Tom. Is there anything else important you said to me last night, while I was under? 
 What time is it? 
 Quarter after eight? Jesus, Tom, this is barbaric. 
 Other than the shoe thing, what else did you say to me? 
 Hang on, lemme, I gotta get my bearings here... Who is this again? 
 Phil, I gotta get back to work, was there anything else you told me to do after I came out of it? 
 If you're asking if I gave you a post- 
- 
 Post-hypnotic suggestion, I know what it's called, Phil. Did you leave any others behind when you were kickin' your big, clumsy-ass feet around inside my brain? 
 No. 
 Tell me the truth, Phil! 
 No, I swear! I went out of my way not to, I even added a thing at the end to make sure! 
 What thing? 
 I, I didn't want you to retain any of the experience, you know, I wanted you to have control back, so I made up this thing. 
 What thing? 
 God, I don't remember, I haven't had caffeine in almost eighteen hours, how am I supposed to- 
 In general, what was it? 
 Well, it was perfectly harmless, I just said, uh, I said "When you come out from under, your mind will be completely free. There's nothing binding it. Nothing holding it back. You will be completely open." Tom stops, thinking for a long moment. 
 Yeah, I'd say that about describes it. 
 Describes what? 
 Never mind, it's gone now. I gotta go. 
 Describes what? But Tom has hung up. Philip unplugs the phone and goes back to sleep. 
 (to the chair) I told him. MAGGIE (o.s.) (into phone) Oh. Yeah, I understand. No, no, no, don't worry about it. Okay. Bye. (hangs up) Shit. Shoot. Shoot, I mean. She picks up the phone and dials again. With all she's doing, she doesn't notice that Jake is having a conversation with the empty chair. MAGGIE (cont' d) (into phone) Philip, hi, it's me, call me when you wake up, is there any way -- 
 Yes. 
 -- you'd consider dumping whatever bimbo you're going out with Friday night and baby-sitting for us instead? 
 Who? 
 I'd call mom, but it's a long drive for her and she's not feeling very well again, so... call me as soon as you can, and no, I'm not kidding. (hangs up) 
 Okay. 
 Well, that'll happen in about a million years. 
 (to Maggie) Call Vanessa and ask her about Dorothy. i'aggie stops, looking at him. Jake is calmly eating his c•.real. She looks at her watch. 
 Good idea. She picks up the phone and dials a number. Jake just keeps eating. Behind him: (cont' d) Hi, Vanessa, it's Maggie. What's your baby-sitter's name again, Dorothy? Are you gonna use her Friday night? Really? Would you mind if I asked her to sit for us, just this once? Oh, great, thank you so much, you saved my life. What's her number? Uh huh, uh huh. Great, thanks again. Okay. She hangs up and finishes her make-up in her reflection in the toaster. (cont' d) When did you ever meet Dorothy, Jake? 
 Samantha told me. 
 (didn't hear that) Oh, I bet you saw her when you were over playing with Jessica the other day, right? She was there then? Jake turns to the empty chair on his left. He looks at it for a moment, then turns back to Maggie. 
 Yes. That's when I met her. He goes back to eating his cereal. A DOORBELL rings. 
 I'm Dorothy. Muller. Tom Witzky.TOM She shakes his hand limply and steps inside, just to the side of the door, looking down. Tom stares at her, longer than is Maggie comes forward with the baby Y monitor and takes ove r, leading Dorothy into the room. 
 Hi, Dorothy, thanks for coming, remem ber me? I'm Maggie, we met over at Vanessa's once or twice. Okay, Jake's asleep already and he hardly ever wakes up, a band could play in his room and he wouldn 't hear it, so 
 It's okay. 
 Great! Let me just grab my coat we' re out of here. and 
 'Whir don't you, uh... why don't you mak%- yourself comfortable. Take off your coat. Without looking at him, Dorothy obediently unzips her jacket and takes it off. Her b reasts are fuller than one would expect at her age. She l ooks up at Tom, and now there's defiance in her eyes. Wh at are you lookin' at? (cont' d) Excuse me. He goes upstairs. 
 Where did you find Dorothy? 
 Vanessa recommended her. She's used her before, she said she's real reliable. Tom nods. (cont' d) Are you... She's looking at the Advil. He smiles, faking it. 
 Too much caffeine, that's all. He pops them in his mouth and swallows them dry. (cont'd) Let's qo, 
 (to Tom) Don't get me wrong, it's great what the Damon kid is doin' and everything, I mean, I'm sorry your record's gettin' broke, but, what, it held up almost ten years? Tom is terribly distracted, looking back over his shoulder, still plagued with a headache. 
 Yeah, `bout that. They round a corner. Just ahead, a high school football field is surrounded by bright lights, mobbed with STUDENTS and PARENTS. A BAND plays on the field, it's just about time for kickoff. 
 (raising his voice over the 
) So you got that, that's great. What I'm sayin', though, is this year it's all Kurt Damon this and Kurt Damon that, and yeah, the kid has an arm, but high school football is running the ball -- smash-mouth, in-your-face, power football. Always been that way. Tom glances up at a mercury-vapor streetlight as they pass under it. 
 Look at him. Why doesn't he just lick them when they walk by? 
 
 (LAUGHS) According to Tom, the average guy carries around a hard-on two and a half hours out of every day. What are you gonna do? 
 
 (DARKLY) I've got a few ideas. A MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN walks past and Frank gives her the big crank-around. SHEILA (cont' d) Look at that! He's not even picky. I swear to God, that man will stick it in a bowl of soup if it's still warm.. Maggie notices Tom, up ahead, with a hand to his temple. She catches up. 
 Are you okay? He forces a smile. They head into a crowded tunnel that leads into the stadium. 
 Six eighty-three with three game.- left, he only needs to average, ti.iat, a hundred and five, hundred and six yards a game? He hits a thousand and we're talkin' major scholarships, the kid could write his own ticket. That kinda thing's good for everybody, helps the whole neighborhood. He's goin' a hell of a lot farther than I ever did. Look at the quality of the tail he's already gettin'. He passed me in that department when he was about fourteen. He passes Tom the bottle. This time, he takes a swig. 
 
 Sf"S TAXING BIM AWWAY! 
 
 Tom, wait! 
 Oh, no. He bounds up the steps and tries the door. It's locked. He fumbles in his pockets for the keys. 
 Jake?! No answer. He races up the stairs. 
 What the hell is the- 
 She took him. 
 What?! 
 
! 
 Oh, my God! She bounds up the steps, calling out for Jake. 
 She can't be that far! He runs to the corner, desperate, and looks up and down the street in both directions. There are a lot of people out, she could be anywhere. 
 Wait right here, keep your eyes open! He opens the door and goes inside. 
 Give him to me. She shakes her head no. Outside, a SIREN WHINES and a police car flashes past the window, its red lights spinning. They both hear it and glance over, then look back at each other. Tom raises an eyebrow. She knows what he means. (cont'd) Give him to me, Dorothy. Trembling, Dorothy reaches out, Jake in her arms. Tom gently takes the boy from her and holds him tight. The front door flies open and Maggie races inside. Tom gives Jake over to her. 
 (half asleep) Oh, hi, Mommy. She's relieved, but livid. 
 (to Dorothy) What the hell is the matter with you?! Dorothy jumps to her feet and races through the door that leads to the back, where the buses leave from. 
 (to Maggie) Take him home! I'll be there as soon as I can! He runs after Dorothy. 
 Sit up. Sit up, I want to talk to you. She manages to drag herself into a sitting position. She shoves back, against the wheel of a bus. Beyond them, the bus that nearly hit her stops on the far side of the lot. Dorothy is quivering, still crying. Tom squats in front of her, a few feet away. (cant' d) Why were you taking my son? 
 Go away. 
 Do you want me to call the police? (shakes her head no) Then tell me why you took him. 
 He isn't safe in your house. 
 Why do you say that? 
 He told me! He told me so! The DRIVER of the bus that nearly hit her is out of his bus now. He SHOUTS at them from the other side of the lot. 
 Jake said that? (she nods) What else did he say? 
 Nothing. I was sitting there, I was watching him sleep, I was just watching him, like I'm supposed to, and... and he sat up in bed, he looked right at me, and he said "I'm not safe in this house." Two times, he said it, and then he went back to sleep. 
 Where were you taking him? 
 California. To my father's house. My real father, not -- (like poison on her tongue) -- Duane. Jake would be safe at my father's house, we'd both be safe there. 
 You too? (she nods) Why aren't you safe here? She doesn't answer. The Driver is coming over to them, still 
 flashes through his mind. A MAN'S FACE, sweaty and unshaven, leers over us, too close. 
 Who is he?! She just looks at him, frightened. He shakes her, violently. (cont' d) 
 You're early. Your mom's still at work. Hey, do you know if she bought any more who the fuck are you? Tom is storming across the room toward him. (cant' d) Hey hey hey hey HEY! Tom already has Duane by the collar. He wrenches him to his feet. (cont' d) 
'?! 
 Are you Duane? 
 Who?! I don't even know who you're- Duane looks over Tom's shoulder. Dorothy is standing in the doorway, frightened. (cont' d) Dorothy, who the fuck is this guy?! Tom hurls Duane across the coffee table, knocking over Duane's bong. Duane hits the floor hard. He starts fumbling in his pocket, but Tom is on him, ripping him to his feet again. 
 She's a little girl, you son of a bitch! She' s fifteen years old, and you fucked her!? What the hell is the matter with you?! YOU DON'T DO SHIT 
 Look, man, I don't know who you are or what she told you, but- Tom hurls Duane across the room. He SMASHES into a bookcase, breaking the glass shelves and knocking a bunch of pictures and knickknacks to the ground. Duane SCREAMS, tries to roll away to escape Tom, but Tom picks him up by the back of his collar and his belt, like a dog. 
 
 (wielding the knife) You got ten minutes. Pack your shit. You don't leave a note, you don't try to call, and if you ever, ever come back here again, I'll know, I'll find you, and I'll stick this so far into you they'll never get it out. You got it? Duane nods, terrified. 
 I'll stay until he's gone. Upstairs, dresser drawers SLAM, Duane CURSES. He's packing. (cont' d) Shouldn't be long. 
 You're bleeding. 
 Tell your mother I'll pay for this. 
 It's okay. He picks up a framed photograph. Broken glass falls out of the frame as he turns it over. Tom freezes. (cont'd) What's the matter? Tom just stares at the picture. (cont' d) What? Tom turns the picture around to show Dorothy. The woman in the picture is about eighteen or nineteen, bears a faint resemblance to Dorothy -- -- and is the same woman he saw in his living room. (coast' d) Yeah? 
 Who is this woman? 
 My sister. 
 Did she have a black dress, kind of a diamond pattern on it? 
 Yeah. 
 She wore a lot of bracelets, those thick ones, different colors, all up and down her arms? 
 Yeah, all t2;+ time, she probably still does. How d., you know that? Upstairs, there is a tremendous SLAM as a closet door closes and Duane SHOUTS. DUANE (o.s.) 
! 
 Where is she? 
 I don't know. 
 Can I talk to her? 
 No. 
 Why not? 
 She ran away. About six months ago. 
 Where did she go? 
 I don't know! She don't write or nothin'. Tom looks down at the photograph again. 
 What's your sister's name, Dorothy? 
 Samantha. 
 Samantha? 
 That's what she said. 
 Where have I heard that name before? 
 Dorothy said she ran away about six months ago. 
 But she could still be around! Hiding or something. I mean, she could have actually been here when you saw her! 
 If she was, she's very quick getting in and out of a room. 
 Where was she? When you saw her, where was she exactly? 
 On the cushion right next to you. Maggie looks down at the empty half of the couch, freaked out. She pulls in closer to him. 
 What was it like? At the game, I mean, how did you know about Jake? Did you see anything? 
 It's hard to explain. I just got this -- feeling. 
 Like when I was drowning? 
 A little bit. But a hundred times stronger. 
 Does it hurt when it happens? 
 Like you wouldn't believe. Fecls like my brain is tearing in half. 
 God, Tommy, what's the matter with you? 
 Why do you assume it's bad? Maybe this is a good thing. 
 If your brain is tearing in half? 
 I told you there was somethin' in me. Maybe it's comin' out. 
 I like it better in. 
 Just roll with it. What's the worst that can happen? 
 You'll go insane. Kill yourself. Kill me and Jake first. 
 Well, yeah, that... 
 I want you to go see my cousin Elizabeth. Make sure there's nothing wrong. Just tell her about the headaches, that's all she needs to know, you don't have to bring up the other stuff. Suddenly, he smiles. 
 Hey, know what? (she looks at him) It is a girl. She furrows her brow, "how do you know?", then follows his gaze down to her belly, where his hand is resting. 
 L : 
 Do you have any metal plates in your skull? 
 
 
 
 Any shrapnel lodged anywhere in your body? 
 No. 
 No cardiac pacemaker, I assume -- iron filings near your eyes? 
 Huh? 
 You don't work with sheet metal, do you? 
 No. 
 Left here. 
 No. 
 Aneurism clips in your brain? 
 No thanks. 
 Do you suffer from claustrophobia? 
 Only in, like, really small spaces. (she looks at him, straight 
 Right, then jog left. They do. 
 Do we really gotta do this? 
 You've had no head trauma, no serious viral infections you can recall, you haven't been out of the country, you're not a drug user, you have no history of migraines... I suppose I could open up your skull in the operating room and then decide what to do, but I'd rather take a few pictures first, wouldn't you? She pushes through a set of double doors. 
 How's it work? Elizabeth goes to a computer terminal and types in some commands. 
 It creates an electromagnetic field thirty thousand times stronger than the earth's. That stimulates your brain's protons to align themselves. Then we shoot radio waves into you, which knocks the protons out of alignment. They then realign themselves, sending out radio signals we record on the scanner. The computer reads the signals and makes a series of detailed cross-sections of the layers of tissue. Tom looks at the machine, then back at her. 
 Can I have another Valium? 
 So your arms don't touch the sides of the machine. 
 That would be bad? She smiles and nods. The other Nurse puts a white cloth over his hair. 
 2 Your party hat. He tries to smile, but he is unnerved. Elizabeth leans in, staring down at Tom. 
 It's so nice you and Maggie finally came to see me at work. 
 Kinda hot in the coffin. ELIZABETH'S VOICE comes blaring out of speakers mounted on either side of the tunnel. 
 
 Yo, hey, hey, woah, I'm right here. Can you turn it down a little bit? 
 
 Go ahead. The Technician enters some commands on a keyboard. 
 Did he bring any music? 
 Yeah, right here. She hands him a cassette. Elizabeth puts it into a tape deck and pushes "play." 
 
 No tumors, no growths, no scars or lesions, no intrusions or damaged tissue of any kind. Except for one tiny abnormality, your brain anatomy is textbook. Physically, anyway. 
 What abnormality? 
 Well, it's so insignificant it's hardly worth mentioning. She leans forward to one of the screens and points to a spot on a cross-section. (cont' d) It's the parietal lobe. Here. There's a slight distension, just the tiniest bulge here in the arc of the crescent. That's uncommon. 
 How uncommon? 
 One in a half million, maybe, it doesn't really have a name. But it isn't consequential. Wouldn't have any effect on cognitive processes. 
 Great. There's nothing wrong with me, I gotta get back to work. (stands and shakes hands) Thank you for everything, Elizabeth, I owe you a giant one, hey, you think I can get some of that Valium to go? Elizabeth scowls at him. (cont' d) Worth a try. Take care, say hi to Michael. (to Maggie) I'll pick up Jake, I told him I'd take him to the Pier tonight. He heads for the door, eager to get the hell out of there. Maggie lingers, looking at Elizabeth, hopeful. 
 There's really nothing wrong with him? Nothing at all? 
 Maggie. I said nothing physical. 
 Daddy, look! 
 Woah, check it out. He stops, helps Jake down off his shoulders. Jake presses right up against the glass, staring at the train as it circles the track. Tom squats, admiring it with him. 
 (to Jake) Hey, look at that one! He carries Jake to the next window over, a different display. The Cop wanders closer. Tom finally turns to him, tense. (cont' d) How ya doin'? 
 Fine, fine. He's staring at Jake. 
 Is there a law against lookin' in the window now? 
 Huh? Oh, no, `course not. I'm off duty. I live right up there. 
 That's great. See ya later. He sweeps Jake up onto one hip and starts to walk away. 
 It's even stronger in him than it is in you. Tom stops. Turns back. 
 What? The Cop smiles and makes a face -- "you heard me." 
 Jon't be afraid of it. Tom just star .s at the Cop, trembling slightly. The Cop walks forward. Fascinated, Tom does not back away. The Cop lowers his voice. (cont' d) You're not alone. Tom is too rattled to speak. (cont' d) You don't know about Cacophony yet? Tom shakes his head no. The Cop pulls out a note pad, scribbles something on a page, tears it out and holds it out to Tom. (cont' d) Come next time. His hand shaking, Tom accepts the paper. The Cop reaches out and tousles Jake's hair. (coast' d) Bye, Jake. The Cop turns and walks away. 
 Bye, Neil! The Cop looks back over his shoulder and smiles. Tom looks at his son as if he's never seen him before. 
 Jake, do you remember the other day when we were talking in the kitchen? Jake doesn't look up, just keeps playing and HUMMING. (cont' d) I was loo3.ing for a baby-sitter, remember? (Jake plays) And you said "Samantha" told you about Dorothy. Do you remember that? He keeps playing, HUMMING. 
 Jake? Mommy's asking you a question. Nothing. 
 Is Samantha someone who talks to you sometimes, Jake? No answer. She tries a different route. (cont'd) Can you remember any of the things that Saman- Jake looks up sharply. 
 Don't ask the boy any more questions. They freeze, staring at him. His tone was odd. And did he just refer to himself in the third person? (cant' d) Talk to me. He goes back to playing, and to that little tune. It's becoming rather haunting. Maggie and Tom look at each other. Good God. 
 She's downstairs. He sits up. His head is killing him again. There's a glass of water on the night table. le grabs it and drinks greedily. He turns and looks to the open -loorway. He swallows. He stands up. He looks down at Maggie, who's still sound asleep. He walks to the door. Maggie stirs, feeling him gone. 
 Samantha? She speaks, but when her voice comes out it's horrible and distorted -- muffled in a strange way. He takes a few trembling steps down the stairs, closer to her. She walks forward a step or two. She speaks again, louder, but the voice is still unintelligible and bizarre. Tom reaches the bottom of the stairs. She reaches out a hand. He stares, terrified. The hand draws closer. Almost beyond his own control, Tom raises his own hand. She comes closer. Tom is frozen at the bottom of the stairs. Their hands draw closer still. Their fingertips touch. 
 Tom? He can't answer. He's panicked, but unable to move. With every twitch of his chest clouds of steam burst from his mouth, all the air going out, none coming in. From the top of the stairs, Maggie can see him, standing there, hand outstretched into the darkness, touching nothing. But from Tom's point of view, he's touching fingertips with Samantha. He's frozen, breathless, and now his cheeks start to turn pale, unnaturally white. Another few seconds of this and he'll pass out. (con t' d) Tom!? She races down the stairs. (cont' d) 
?! Tom can't look at her, can't move. A tear rolls down his cheek as his lips begin to turn blue. MAGGIE (cont' d), BR. ATfHE! She grabs hold of him. As soon as Maggie makes contact, Tom collapses. He sees Samantha break away from him with a SHRIEK of irritation. She moves, not quite walking, but a herky- jerky kind of lateral movement toward the dining room, fast, like someone on a dozen espressos, an angry thing that has to slow itself down to a crawl just to talk to us. In the dining room, she flops over onto the floor, like a reflection appearing suddenly on the surface of a pond. Into the floor, she disappears. Maggie grabs Tom's face and turns it toward her. He takes a big lungful of air. 
 I think we better find out. 
 
 You know you're under surveillance here. He gestures to Sheila, Frank's wife, who's about ten feet away, keeping an angry eye on him. 
 What can I do? Nature commands me to spread my seed. I hear and obey. 
 Sure, great, just don't be surprised if some day Sheila digs out your 38 and buries a slug or two in your ass. 
 Please. The woman can't even step on a spider. 
 Spider doesn't fuck around on her. 
 They change, Maggie. Ten or so years of marriage, a kid or two -- they become a different human being. 
 Sheila, if you're so miserable, why don't you leave? Adam's almost out of school, he can handle it. 
 Oh, Frank would love that. No. I want him out. I like that house. 
 How long have you guys been there? 
 Almost fifteen years. 
 So... you know most of the people around here pretty well, right? 
 But, you know, what am I gonna do, I'm a single father with a son to support, I can' t just say fuck everything. So I scraped together enough money to make a few downpayments, and here I am. A landlord, for Christ's sake. 
 So you've been in this neighborhood a long time, right? 
 is questioning Sheila. 
 Did you ever hear of a girl named Samantha Muller? 
 
 (THINKS) From over by Baldwin? 
 I think so. 
 Yeah, kinda, name rings a bell. 
, in response to the same question from Tom, calls over to his son Kurt, the good-looking football player, who is leaning against the front of his yellow Trans-Am, talking to a couple other guys. 
 Hey, Kurt, you remember that Muller girl? (to Tom) Like he ever tells me anything. 
 What, Dorothy? He makes a "big breasts" gesture. 
 No, the other one. Samantha. Lenny, the crank, joins the conversation. 
 You mean the retard? She ran away. 
 She did? 
 is on the same subject. 
 She was always hanging around the guys, you know, she wanted to be with the "in" clique and everything. There wasn't much chance of that. 
, asks Tom a question. 
 Why you wanna know about her? 
 Oh, Dorothy baby-sits for us sometimes and she started talking about her sister, wonderin' how she was doing and stuff. I promised her I'd ask around, see if anybody'd heard anything from her. 
 She took off back in March, I think, with some black guy. 
 )id she ever live in that house we're .n? Frank comes up, one arm around his son Adam. 
 Who? 
 No. You're the first tenants since I bought it. 
 (to Harry) Harry, I saw those Dominicans back in the park again. By the basketball courts? 
 What do you want me to do about it, Lenny? 
 We could go talk to `em. Scare `em off, if there were enough of us. 
 Yeah, Lenny, they're gonna be terrified of you. 
 keeps talking to Maggie. 
 She was a pretty girl, but real shy. Pretty simple. She had these crazy ideas she could be an actress, you know. She thought she was gonna be a big movie star. I mean, there was no way, but you couldn't tell her that. I thought it was kind of sad. 
 (to Tom) Two one one. 
 Okay. 
 
 Got it. 
 Two hundred eleven. 
 I give up, Frank. 
 (puts his son in a hammerlock) Two hundred and eleven yards rushing the other night. That makes eight ninety-four with two games to play, kid needs a hundred and six, that's only fifty-three a game. He could walk through the rest of the season and hit a thousand. 
 (pulling free) Dad... Behind them, the guys playing football out of Bernie's Tap have now organized a full-fledged game of tackle in the street, over the objections of their wives and girlfriends, who shout at them to stop. 
 I embarrass him. Are there worse things that can happen to a human being? 
 Hey, Adam, way to go, man. 
 
 (SHYLY) Thanks. 
 (to Harry) Well, if you hear anything about her, lemme know, okay? 
. X About who? 
 Tom's askin' about that Muller girl from over by Baldwin, you know, the one that ran away? 
 The retard. 
 Jesus, Lenny, don't use that word. 
 What, retard? 
 
 She was almost your age, Adam. You know anything about her? Adam doesn't answer right away. They all look at him. 
 Huh uh. Suddenly, the guys playing football run a play right through the middle of them -- sweaty, middle-aged bodies fly in every direction. Everybody SHOUTS and lunges backward, protecting their beers. The conversation is broken up. But the football players are upset, and a fight breaks out. The crowd gets out of the way, half to watch the fight with glee, the other half to shake their heads and watch the fight. 
 You okay? 
 Yeah. (Kurt is looking atIhim: I'm fine. 
 You don't look fine. 
 Really, Mom? How do I look? 
 (hands up in surrender) All right, all right. Just, if there's, you know, if there's somethin' you wanna bullshit about or anything, just let me know. Might help. 
 You could climb off my back, that'd help. Adam walks away. 
 Sorry. 
 It can't ever just be nice. Someone's always got to ruin it. 
 Oh, man... He sits up, painfully. A beam of sunlight cuts him right across the eyes. 
 A, Tom pulls his jeans on. He sits on a chair, puts on a shoe. But the other one's gone. He feels under the chair. Not there. He opens the closet door. Not there. He looks under the bed. There it is. He grabs it. 
. M." Tom takes it down and reads it. 
 Frank? What are you doing here? Frank looks up at him. His face is sad. 
 They're going to kill you, Tommy. You and Maggie both. 
 Why did you say that, Frank? 
 (in his own world) This is a decent neighborhood. On the street, TWO KIDS ride their bikes straight at each other, full tilt, SCREAMING. At the last second, one of the kids swerves, the other taunts him with cries of "Chicken!" A bird swoops over Tom's head, too low, and Tom flinches. He walks across the driveway, toward Frank's house. The MAILMAN waves to him, headed down the block. Tom waves back. Tom walks up the steps to Frank's front door and knocks. A VOICE calls from inside. ADAM (o.s.) Come in! 
 Hi! 
 Hi. 
 Want to see what I've got? 
 Sure. Adam pulls his arm around from behind his back. He's holding a 38 with a carved white handle. 
 Not today. Come here: Tom walks toward him. (cont' d) Closer. Tom walks closer. He's right in front of Adam. (cont' d) I bet you never saw this before. He points the gun barrel at Tom -- -- then swings it around and points it at his own heart. 
 Oh, don't do that. Adam pulls the trigger. Tom SCREAMS as Adam collapses to the floor, blood pouring from his chest. His body convulses -- 
 Oh, man... He sits up, painfully. A beam of sunlight cuts him right across the eyes. 
 A, Tom pulls on a pair of jeans. He sits down, puts on a shoe. But the other one's gone. He feels under the chair. Not there. He opens the closet door. Not there. Tom blinks, unsettled. This is kinda familiar. He turns and looks at the bed. 
 Please don't be under there. He bends down, lifts the blanket, and looks under the bed. There's his shoe. (cont' d) Shit. He grabs it. 
. M." Tom winces as he takes it down and reads it. Again. 
 Uh... Frank? But Frank's not on the porch either. Tom steps outside. 
 Oh, God... 
 Oh, God, no! Tom picks up a porch chair and heaves it through the window. 
 Oh, God, no, Jesus, no, please... He grabs a blanket off a chair nearby, presses it to Adam's chest, trying to stop the bleeding. (cont' d) This is really happening.., it's really happening... 
 We need some answers, right? Maybe they're the only ones who have any. She nods. Thinking of something, she picks up her car keys from the table by the door and pulls something off the ring. 
 I'm sure they're very nice people, but in case they aren't -- She hands a thin black cannister to him. (coat' d) Mace the shit out of `em. He smiles and shoves it in his pocket. She kisses him. 
 Thank you. Listen, is, uh -- Vivian gives another plate to a man sitting next to Tom, HERMAN, in his seventies, in a wheelchair, an oxygen tube running into his nostrils. (coat' d) Is there a guy named Neil here? He's a cop? 
 Excuse me? Irritated, Herman gestures for him to lean closer. Tom does. 
 What does it want you to do? 
 I don't... I'm sorry, I don't under- Herman wraps his bony fingers around Tom's wrist. 
 Then you're not listening! NEIL (o.s.) It's his first time, Herman. Give him a break. Tom turns. Neil, the cop he saw the other night, has come in from the kitchen. Tonight he's in street clothes. NEIL (cont' d) (points at Tom) Lemme guess. "Distended parietal lobe," right? 
 
 Don't have a name. Cacophony Society, somebody said once, that stuck for a while. You know, like too many voices in our heads? I think it's too melodramatic. How about "fellow sufferers?" Vivian comes in from the kitchen with two big gallon jugs of orange juice. There are AAAAHS1 of appreciation. 
 Does everybody here -- see things, like me? 
 
 (NODS) Buncha freaks, huh? 
 Speak for yourself. 
 No, Herman, you're a freak. "Mutants" is a better word for the rest of us. He pulls 'ip a chair and sits down opposite Tom. On the other side of tie room, Vivian and Beverly tell an animated two-part story to he teenage girl and the homey, finishing each others' se. .tences . (cont' d) Like any other part of our body, our brains have evolved a lot in a hundred thousand years. Our first thoughts were formless. Struggling consciousness. Sensation. An instinctive tie to our environment. But then our brains began to focus. We sacrificed the intuitions we first had so our thoughts could be directed, so we could master specific functions. That's where we are at the moment. We're brilliant with technique, but we've given up instinct. So the next evolutionary step, the step yet to come, or perhaps it's already in the making, is actually backward. To maintain our higher functions, but reawaken the part of our brain that was pure intuition. That was receptive to anything, because it didn't know enough not to believe. You're a freak of nature, pal, an evolutionary step. You're double- jointed. (taps his head) Up here. 
 Are we the only ones? 
 Hardly. I've heard of groups like ours in San Francisco, New York, Minneapolis -- those are just the cities I've been to. Tom, you're what they used to call a medium. You're like a man in a dark tunnel with a flashlight, but the light only goes on once in a while. When it flickers on, you get a glimpse of something, but not enough of a glimpse to know what it is. Just enough to know it's there. 
 What about my son? 
 (sn files) The ncxt generation. Much better flashlight. 
 Wright, if there's all these people who got this power, why doesn't everybody know about it? Why isn't it common knowledge? 
 It is. A lotta people know. Unfortunately, the easiest people to convince, the believer types, they also tend to be the dumbest. And people who demand proof -- well, this isn't something we can control, it comes when it comes, so if you can't make it happen, how can you prove it? It's like that singing frog in the cartoon, but when the guy puts it on stage it just croaks and he looks like a jerk. Herman laughs, horribly. He likes that cartoon. (cont' d) Some of us try anyway. I say who needs that kind of aggravation? 
 This all started when I was hypnotized. Is that how it always is? 
 First time I've heard that one. it comes all different ways. Sometimes it goes the same way it came. 
 So it does go away. 
 For some people. Don't look for rules. We're off the map here. 
 What does it want you to do? 
 What does what want me to do? 
 You saw a ghos-, didn't you? 
 Look, what'd the bitch want? 
 Why do you assume she wants something? 
 They always do. Something they need finished, something they can't do any more. 
 Why me? 
 Because she's confused. Doesn't know why other people won't answer her. She only knows that you will. If she hasn't asked for something yet, she will. And once they ask, it's very difficult to stop yourself from doing it. 
 What do you mean? She can, it can make me do something I don't want to do? 
 Oh, no. You'll want to. Badly. You won't think about anything else. You won't sleep. You won't eat. You'll lie. And God help anyone who tries to stop you. 
 What if I stop me? What if I just don't do it? 
 Then you got a weird bitch friend for the rest of your life. 
 Just listen to her, Tom Let her tell you what she wants. 
 What, what, what? 
 I want you to hypnotize me again. 
 Just slow down, you gotta be a little patient with me here, `cause, um... well, Tom, Tom, I've got a confession to make. See I, I, I just smoked this great big fatty a few minutes before you walked in, so this shit you're tellin' me here is fuckin' with my mind just a little bit extra, okay? Tom grabs a chair from Philip's desk and sits. 
 Do it. 
, they sit face to face. 
 Okay. Close your eyes. Tom closes his eyes. 
 (opens his eyes) Would you just get to it, please? 
 All right, all right. Tom closes his eyes again. (cont' d) I want you to pretend you're in a movie theatre. 
 There's someone in here. 
 No, it's empty. 
 There's someone else here. 
 No, man, I said you're alone in the theatre. 
 hard to breathe 
 I want you to look at the screen. 
 
 Look at the screen, Tom. 
 
 What?! What happened?! 
 Couldn't breathe... 
 Are you okay?! Tom wipes his brow, he's covered in sweat. 
 Plastic, like sheets of plastic... He shoves Philip out of the way, finds the refrigerator on the other side of the room. He rips it open, searches for something to drink. Philip follows him. 
 I think you need to sit down, man, something very next level was happening there, you should have seen your face. Only beer in the fridge. Tom CRACKS one open and upends it. (cont' d) Uh... want a brew? Tom drinks the entire can. (cont' d) Feel better? Tom nods, wiping his chin. (cont' d) What happened? Tom looks at him, calming. 
 She told me what she wants. 
 (calling out) Hey! You're home early! She struggles to take the keys out of the door while still holding the groceries. (cont' d) Can you pick up Jake? I'm exhausted! She comes in and kicks the door shut behind her. Tom's nowhere to be seen. From somewhere in back, there is a faint CRUNCHING sound. (cont' d) Hello? No answer. She heads into the kitchen with the groceries. 
 Hey, look what I'm not cleaning up. She sets the groceries down on the counter and pulls out a gallon of milk. She opens the refrigerator. She does a double take. The entire top shelf is jammed with cardboard cartons of orange juice. From outside, the CRUNCHING sound comes again. She follows the muddy footprints out the kitchen door. 
 Tom? Tom raises the pick high and brings it down hard. CRUNCH. The hole he's in at the moment isn't more than two or three feet deep. But, hey, it's early. Maggie draws closer. In between swings -- (coast' d) Tom. Tom whirls, the pick raised to defend himself. His shirt's off, his chest and face are streaked with mud and sweat. Maggie jumps back. 
 You scared me. And with that, he turns back to the job. Swing. CRUNCH. 
 S scared you? Swing. CRUNCH. (cont' d) Tom. Swing. CRUNCH. (cont' d) What are you doing? 
 (doesn't turn around) I'm supposed to dig. 
 What do you mean? Zom shrugs. Swings the pick. 
 I'm supposed to dig. 
 Who says? He just looks at her from under his sweaty brows. You know who. (cont' d) Oh. Tom manages to break apart the rock he was working on with the pick. He tosses the axe, which bounces crazily across the grass at Maggie's feet. She jumps out of the way. He hoists himself out of the hole and picks up the garden hose. He sprays water into the hole. (cont' d) Why are you doing this? 
 Water softens up the dirt. He tosses the hose aside and grabs a shovel. He jumps back in the hole and starts to dig. 
 No, I mean... Could you stop for a minute? (he keeps digging) Would you please stop for a minute? 
 What don' t you get? I'm supposed to dig. 
 
! He looks up, supremely irritated, and leans on the shovel. "Well?" 
 (isn't it obvious?), I'm searching. 
 What are you searching for? 
 The question isn't "what." We both know very well "what," even if we don't want to may it out loud. The question, Maggie, which, as you can plainly see, I am very busy trying to answer -- the question is "Where?" 
 I think we should call the police. 
 And tell them what, exactly? Run it by me once. Practice, see how it sounds. (looks at his watch) Anything else? 
 Why don't you come in the house with me? Take a break. I want to talk to you, you're not yourself right now. 
 This is just fucking typical, isn't it? He climbs out of the hole and walks toward her. (cont' d) What do you want me to do, Maggie, you want me to go inside, sit down in front of the TV, drink eight or nine beers till I fall asleep in the chair? Like that? Maybe repeat the whole thing tomorrow and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after- 
 
! 
 -until I grab my chest-and die?! May )e I was already dead! This is the mos. important thing that's ever happ•ned to me, the most important thins I've ever done in my life, Maggie, my whole stupid life, and you want me to just STOP?! By the and of his tirade, TWO NEIGHBORS are staring over the back fence. He's only a few feet from Maggie now, the veins in his neck standing out. She holds her ground. 
 
 InterRUPtions! He picks up his tee shirt, snakes angrily into it, and marches across the yard toward the house. (cant' d) (to the Neighbors) What are YOU lookin' at? 
 You gonna drink that? She doesn't answer. He takes her glass, drinks some. (cone' d) I'm sorry. No answer. (coat' d) Okay, I'm not sorry. She ignores him. He looks at the letter in her hands. (cont' d) Who's that from? 
 My brother Steve. My mother's going back in the hospital again. 
 
 What? He shakes his head. (cont' d) What? 
 Nothing. They stare at each other. Tom's face is pale. Maggie is concerned. The phone RINGS. Maggie stares at Tom. The phone RINGS again. She lowers her voice, pleading. 
 What is it? Tom can't look at her. The phone RINGS again. Tom gets up, opens the door that leads to the back yard, and goes outside. 
 ( - 9.) Hello? Tom closes his eyes. (o.s.) Steve, I was just going to- She stops. There is a long silence. Tom opens his eyes. A tear runs down his cheek. He wipes it away. He turns and walks back toward the house, slowly. There is dead silence inside. As he nears the doorway, he hears the sound of the telephone being placed back in its cradle. Maggie reaches the doorway at the same time Tom does. She looks up at him, her eyes filled with tears. He puts his arms around her and she breaks down. He holds her. He holds her for a long moment. (cont' d) You knew. (no answer) You knew, didn't you? 
 When's the funeral? 
 Sunday. We should leave as soon as we can. 
 We? She stiffens. (cont' d) Oh, you, uh... you want me to go with you? She looks at him, deeply hurt. Then enraged. She pushes him away from her, hard. He stumbles back into the yard. 
 Do I WANT you to come with me:! To my MOTHER'S FUNERAL?! Of COURSE L want you to come, why the hell WOULLV'T you come?! But he's looking past her, at the holes in the yard. 
 I'm just... kind of in the middle of something here. She looks at him, absolutely incredulous -- -- and then storms back into the house, SLAMMING the door so hard two of the glass panes spiderweb. 
 Come on! Tom curses and trudges back toward the house. 
 A, Tom reaches up to the hanging light bulb, which also has an electrical outlet in its fixture, and plugs in a yellow safety cord. He flicks a switch on the compressor and it RATTLES to life. He follows a hose over to where it plugs into the side of the jackhammer, which now quivers with unleashed power. Tom picks up the jackhammer. He hauls it over to the rock that's been in his way. He positions the jackhammer's spike on the top of the rock. He lowers a pair of goggles over his eyes. He swings his weight up, onto the jackhammer, and squeezes the handles. The jackhammer ROARS to life. It's deafening. Tom's whole body quivers. It's like riding a bull, but the rock begins to split in half. Tom WHOOPS with joy, barely heard over the din that echoes in his basement. 
 It's me. TOM (o.s.) (changes his tone) Oh, hi. How ya doin'? 
 I'm okay. TOM (o.s.) How's your family? 
 You know. Drunk. Fighting with each other. TOM (o.s.) Listen, Maggie, I'm sorry. I was an asshole. I should be there with you right now. 
 Yeah, well, what can I say? You are kind of an asshole. How do you feel? TOM (o.s.) Fine. A lot better. Much, much better. Everything's fine here. Real good. 
 Have you had any- TOM (o.s.) Nope. Not even one. 
 No, uh... no more digging? 
 Look, I'm sorry too. I' wish I hadn't just stormed out of there, I shouldn't have left you alone. TOM (o.s.) I deserved it. 
 Are you okay? You sound funny. What are you doing? TOM (o.s.) Just... moving a chair. There. 
 Why don't you come up here with us? This time of night you could make it in an hour. TOM (o.s.) Well, I can't, really. 
 Why not? TOM (o.s.) (a lame lie) I'm, uh, not supposed to use the truck for personal trips. 
 (trying to keep her cool) Alright. I'll come down there and get you. I'll leave right now. Behind her, the bedroom door swings open. Jake stands there. He looks terrible. She doesn't hear him come in. TOM (o.s.) No, no, no, no, no, what do you want to do that for? Don't come down here. 
 Feathers everywhere. Maggie turns back to Jake -- and GASPS. He's peeing his pants, the urine drizzling down over his shoes. 
 (into phone) Oh, my God, I gotta go. I'll be there in an hour. TOM (o.s.) Maggie, wait, no, Mag- She hangs up the phone and races over to her son. 
 Honey, what happened? Why didn't you tell me you had to go to the potty? Jake turns and looks at her. 
 Help Daddy. 
 Jake, come on, we have to go. 
 I'm staying here. 
 What? 
 I want to stay at Uncle Steve's, I don't want to go home. 
 Why not? 
 Because I'm not safe there. Because of the feathers. 
 What does that mean, Jake? He shrugs. Philip, Maggie's brother, stands in the doorway to the other room. 
 It's okay, I can watch him. Maggie, in a hurry, agrees. She bends over and kisses Jake on the forehead. 
 Be good. She opens the door and heads out. As it's swinging shut: 
 Don't stop for the train, Mommy. 
 flas.es through his mind again, the one he's seen twice befoi-. A FACE, too close to his, sting at him through that blurr blue, like through bad eyeglasses. 
 TOM'S FACE is of a man possessed. He digs as fast as he can. 
 pops into his mind, another familiar one. A FIGURE IN Afl OVERCOAT, standing on the front porch of Tom's own house in winter, waving to us to come up. 
 Hi! 
 (off screen, we're in her point of vie sr) Hi. 
 C'mare a sec! 
 What? 
 I want to show you something! We look back, over our shoulder, then back at the Figure. You mean me? This close now, we see the Figure is Kurt Damon. 
 You want to show me something? Her manner of speech is childish, like a grade-schooler's. 
 
 What is it? 
 It's a surprise. He tugs. She resists. 
 What kind of surprise? 
 Well, if I told you, it wouldn't be much of a surprise, would it? We let him pull us through the door. 
 Happy St. Patrick's Day. 
 What's the surprise? 
 Uh... don't you have it? He giggles. 
 Oh yeah, the surprise. 
 The surprise. They laugh and look at each other. Kurt drinks, then forces the bottle back at Adam. (cant' d) I'm too wasted. 
 Drink, motherfucker, drink motherfucker, drink motherfucker 
! He wrestles with Adam, forcing him to drink. Half of it runs down Adam's chin. 
 I don't think there is a surprise. We turn and start for the door. Kurt hurries around, intercepts us. 
 Yeah there is, yeah there is. He puts his arm around us, leads us back into the room. 
 You do? 
 Oh, yeah, so bad. He laughs. 
 Why do you want to be my friend? 
 Are you kidding? Look at yourself! Kurt turns Samantha toward an old mirror that hangs over the fireplace. She's good-looking, if she knew it. Terribly insecure, doesn't even like looking at herself. We turn away, embarrassed. (coast' d) Ah ah ah, look! He makes us look in the mirror again. (cont' d) Mama, you are hot. He turns her toward him, looks at her, closely. (coast' d) 
 Well.., you can kiss me if you want to. Kurt leans in close, kisses us. After a moment, we force our head away, looking down. Kurt's hand is on Samantha's breast. We push him back. (cont'd) Not like that! But Kurt pulls us closer, roughly. We struggle. 
 Come on, Samantha, I'll be your friend, I swear I will. 
 I have to go home. We struggle some more. He gets his powerful hanis on our shoulders and starts to push us down. 
 Come on, baby, how `bout a little helmet wash? His belt buckle comes into our view, and his hands on it. We tear away, get up and run for the door. From behind, something hits us very hard. The floorboards race up at us, all of a sudden. We land on them, hard, bounce off, our own blood spraying out on the unfinished wood. Our head lands sideways on the floor. We see Adam McCarthy, vomiting in the corner. Abruptly, we're rolled over and are staring at the ceiling. Kurt Damon is on top of us, his face too close. Her hands rise up, try to push him off, but he's stronger. Samantha starts to SCREAM. Hands close over our face. She bites, and the hands are pulled away. She SCREAMS again. (cont' d) 
 
 
' Adam lunges to the wall and tears down a sheet of the blts plastic Duvateen. He races over to us with the sheet -- -- and everything turns blue. Now our sights and sounds aye muffled and distorted through the blue plastic. We see the image that has haunted Tom, the face of Kurt Damon, a blue demon as he grapples on top of us. 
 Oh, my God. 
 What the fuck did you do that for? 
 Is she dead? 
 No shit she's dead. 
 Oh, my God. 
 Look at her tongue, man. 
 I'm not here. 
 I never saw nobody dead before. We start to fall back, and down, as if sinking into the floor. Kurt and Adam grow taller, further away. Their voices fade. 
 I wish I wasn't here. 
 It's fuckin' gross. 
 This isn't happening. 
 Fuckin' plastic over her face. Good thinkin', Adam. 
 What do we do now? Kurt and Adam are very far away, blobs of light at the end of a black tunnel that's closing in around us. Just before everything goes completely black -- 
 How's he doin'? Frank shrugs. Can't talk much. 
 He might make it. Might not. Sheila's over there now, I'm headed back. 
 Frank, I'm sorry. I'm sorry because... I think I know why Adam shot himself. And I have to call the police about it. But I don't want you to hear it from them, I don't want Sheila to read it in the paper. You have the right to know before anybody else. 
 What are you talking about? 
 Come with me. He nods toward his own house. Frank stares at him, frightened, but what could possibly be worse than what's already happened? 
 Hang on a second. 
 What the hell is goin' on around here? Tom goes to the trap door and lowers himself halfway through. Frank follows. 
 Drink up. You got this'started, you're God damn well gonna help finish it. Kurt takes the bottle and drinks. He starts to lower it, but his father forces him to drink more, and more, until he nearly retches. 
 How did you find this? 
 Does it matter? 
 You don't know it was Adam and Kurt. 
 It was. 
 But there's nothing to... you're talking like a nut, that's what people will say. This is just a body, it doesn't prove anything. 
 No, it doesn't. He bends down and lifts Samantha's lifeless hand. He pries open her fingers. She's clutching a tuft of hair. (cont' d) But this probably will. Frank stares for a long moment, struck dumb. Finally, he turns his back. His shoulders heave as he cries, silently. 
 
- 
 I mean... 
 Frank, we have to- 
 I mean, what were we supposed to do? Tom stops. (cont' d) The kids come to us, she's already dead, the damage is done, there's nothin' gonna bring her back. But those boys, they've got everything ahead of them. Frank lets his jacket drop to the floor, revealing his right hand. He's holding the 38 with the carved white handle. He turns and looks at Tom. 
 E3 T Hairy and Kurt Damon reach the front steps of Tom's house. They look up and down the block. There's no one out. No one to see. 
 Who you planning to shoot with that? 
 Who do you think? 
 I think you haven't decided yet. He's right, and Frank knows it. 
 Get out of here. 
 What are you gonna do, Frank? Frank raises the gun, in a fury. 
 
 Frank, I won't go until you- Frank aims the gun just to the left of Tom's head and pulls the trigger. The bullet CRACKS off the ladder. 
 
 
 
!! -- raises the gun again, puts it to the back of Tom's head, cocks it -- 
 Mace... shit. She starts up the stairs. She reaches the top. The last light that was on inside clicks off. Now the house is totally black inside. Remembering something, she pulls her purse around and feels inside it. She finds the butterfly knife, the one she found in Tom's pants. She holds it in her left hand, keys in her right. She goes to the door. She unlocks the deadbolt. Inside, she hears a SCURRYING sound. She unlocks the knob. She puts the keys back in her purse. 
 Tom? No answer. She steps inside and fumbles for a light switch. She flicks it. Nothing happens. (cont' d) Are you here? She crosses the room to another light and CLICKS its switch. As the light floods the room: Harry, who was hiding behind the front door, BANGS it shut. Kurt Damon is still kneeling on Tom's back, holding one hand roughly over his mouth, trying to keep him quiet. (cont'd) 
- Harry raises the gun in his hand and points it at Maggie. She lunges toward Tom, but Harry grabs her by the arm and flings her roughly to the ground. Tom takes advantage of the moment to flip Kurt off his back. As the kid flies, Harry whirls, training the gun on Tom. 
 
 DON'T MOVE! But Tom tries to scramble to his feet. Harry starts to squeeze the trigger -- -- and SCREAMS in agony. Looking down, he sees Maggie has plunged the knife into his thigh. She rips it out and plunges it in again. Harry's arm flies up, the gun goes off, and the bullet RIPS through the ceiling. 
 BANG! BANG! Two shots ring out from the doorway to the dining room. Harry clutches his chest and drops to the floor. They all turn. Frank stands in the doorway to the dining room, clutching his 38. Kurt rushes toward him, SCREAMING, poker raised high. Frank pulls the trigger two more times. Kurt goes down. Maggie SCREAMS. Tom huddles over her. Frank lets the weapon slip from his fingers. It hits the hardwood with a CLATTER. Tom and Maggie look up. Frank looks at them. In that red shirt, he is exactly the image Tom saw of him in his dream. 
 They were gonna kill you, Tommy. You and Maggie both. Frank turns and walks to the front door. He opens it, walks out onto the porch, and sits down on the top step, facing the street. Tom looks at Maggie. They're both in shock, can hardly speak. 
 You... okay? Maggie nods, shaking. (cont' d) You saved me. Baby, I'm alive be;ause of you... They hold each other. 
 Cold-blooded murder. I can't let something like that happen. Not here. He looks at Tom. (con t' d) This is a decent neighborhood. A few tentative faces gather across the street, staring at Tom's house, wondering what the hell. A SIREN wails in the distance. 
 I thought so, Frank. I sure as hell always thought so. 
 Almost there! 
 Meet the family! She picks up the baby and holds her out to Maggie, who takes her eagerly. 
 Hi, baby, did you sleep well? I sure didn't. The baby sees Maggie's face, blurry, but friendly. Tom leans in. 
 So you're the one that's been kicking my wife! The baby sees Tom's blurry face. Jake steps up, onto a step stool, so he can see over the edge of the bed. 
 Let me see, let me see! Maggie turns the baby so she's facing Jake. The infant looks at her older brother. At first, his face is as blurry as everybody else's. But slowly, Jake's face becomes crystal clear, even though everything around him stays out of focus. (cont' d) Can I hold her? 
 If you're very, very careful. Climb up here. 
 Well, they... certainly get along, don't they? Suddenly, Jake breaks into a wide grin and looks up at his parents, thrilled. Then he looks back at his sister. He leans down and whispers softly in her ear. 
 
