! 
 
 The American Teen Princess Pageant has been enriching the lives of American- made girls since 1945. 
 And make it all the way here to Lincoln, Alabama, to compete for the title of American Teen Princess. 
! 
 Good God, Iris, you taped your shows over it. 
 Sorry. 
 Now ladies, the rest of the tape - which is now gone forever - goes on about startin' this great American journey we call American Teen Princess...Yah-so, any of you young ladies who'd like to start on that journey, you just come right down here and sign up.  And please...help yourselves to some coffee and bars... 
 Showtime. 
. 
 Oh yah-sure, I know what some of your big city, no bra wearin', hairy-legged women's libbers say, "Pageants are old- fashioned" and, uh, and "demeaning" to the girls -- 
 (jumping in) What's sick is women dressin' like men! 
 Uh... You betcha, Iris. (quickly, back to camera) Yah-I think yous boys'll find that things are different here in Mount Rose... 
 A.k.a. Minneapolis - St. Paul. 
 ...Today's "To Do" list includes a trip to the Mall of America.  We need outfits for the "Physical Fitness" number -- 
 Nothin' too showy! 
 Y'betcha, Iris.  We still need a third judge and we need to think of a theme. 
 Gladys -- Gladys!  Look out! 
 A. 
 Oh, my! (waving out window) Hello, Father Donigan!  Sidewalks, sidewalks? 
 That's why we Lutherans use grape Koolaid for the blood of Christ. 
 Oh, there's a parking space over there.  Oh, no, that's just a compact. Sorry. 
 You'd think they'd build the parking lot of America to go with the Mall of America! 
 It's a two-hundred dollar fine! 
 I said I'd move if a cripple came. Let's just run in the store and pick out some outfits. 
 All right, let's go. 
 Wait! Wait! Wait! Wait! Wait! Wait! Wait!  I just thought of the theme. 
 Oh!  What is it? 
 Last year?  It was, "Buy American." 
 "U.S.A. is A-okay." 
 "Can I?  I'm Amer-I-Can!"  People ask me where I get this.  I don't know, it's...maybe a gift from God or somethin'. 
 
 ...Hi. (giggles) I'm Leslie Miller.  I'm signin' up kcause-ah, y'know, I always watch pageants on the TV and my boyfriend thinks I'll win. 
 (suddenly looking O.C.) Hi, I-I'm Amber Atkins and, um, I'm signin' up k'cause, ah, my two favorite people in the world competed. My mom and Diane Sawyer...Course I hope I end up a little more like Diane Sawyer than my mom... 
 (laughing) Oh, my God, no.  Oh, God.  I just do the hair and makeup on the deceased. 
 (V.O.) I'm lucky I have an after-school job where I can practice my talent. 
 Oh, yeah, sure.  You know, every pageant is special, but this one is extra-special to me.  When I was seventeen, I don't know if you know this, but I was crowned Mount Rose's American Teen Princess.  And this year...drum roll please, my lovely daughter, Rebecca Ann Leeman is competin'. 
 Is this my mark? (it is) Hi, I'm Rebecca Leeman.  And I believe this pageant is an important experience for every young woman.  It, well, it teaches you what's really important in life, and it has the power to change you in ways you've never dreamed of. 
 (yelling over noise) ...What?!  Klinghagen thinks it'll all come down to me and Amber? 
 ...Yah-my mom gave me this nine-mil for my thirteenth birthday... 
 Why?  Well, uh, it's kind of like askin', "Why do all the guys chew Copenhagen?"  You know?  I mean, if you're seventeen and you're not a total fry, it's just what you do. 
 I'm gonna sing and dance to, "New York, New York."  See, I fell in love with The Big Apple last summer when I was visitin' my brother.  He followed his dream to New York. 
 Uh... I don't know what my talent's gonna be yet... 
 - 1945 
 (smoked for sixty years) I was Mount Rose American Teen Princess in 1945.  We were at war with the Japs. 
 
 (V.O.) (cont'd) I didn't even get to keep my damn tiara. 
 MR. HOWARD (heavy accent) ... So we adopt Molly three year ago when we come to America, to help acclimate us to American. 
 MRS. HOWARD She all-American girl.  She our American Teen Princess girl. 
 (in Japanese) Excuse me, Father, Mother, when are we moving back to Tokyo?  I can't stand this place anymore.  They put butter on everything. 
 MR. HOWARD (turning, suddenly angry) English!  English, you stupid little retard!  We America now, Tina! 
 (perfect English) I'm sorry, Dad, but with all due respect, my name isn't "Tina," it's Seiko. 
 MR. HOWARD Tina! Tina!! TINA!!! 
 MRS. HOWARD "Robert," settle down. 
 MR. HOWARD (screaming) 
! 
 Mom, I just finished the third movement of that concerto I was working on.  I put, like, this techno beat on this Japanese folk tune - wanna hear it? 
 MR. HOWARD (running down the hall) No!  We not like to hear it!  Go to your room and shut up! 
 Oh, I almost forgot... (removing envelope from pocket) I got my acceptance to Tokyo University. 
 MR. HOWARD What, you deaf?  I say shut up-shut up- SHUT UP! (coming at camera) Cut her outta this! 
 MR. HOWARD Now Molly, tell movie man what you talent do. 
 MR. HOWARD (giving thumbs up) Country western! 
 MRS. HOWARD Clint Black!  Ruff! 
 MR. HOWARD Hey, what he got I not got? 
 ... Yah-I'll be performing a dramatic monologue. 
 Competin' for the title of Minnesota's American Teen Princess sure was excitin'.  But, I never coulda won without my... 
 (slow, due to signing) ...My talent will be an interpretive dance while I sing, "Through the Eyes of Love."  I have a dream of spreadin' sign language around the world... Mom? Would you be so kind? 
 Tammy Curry.  I'm signin' up for the scholarship'n'all. 
 
 (V.O.) Yeah, you bet I do.  I mean, maybe other people think I can't win a beauty pageant.  But other people didn't think I could beat out Becky Leeman for President of the gun club, either.  And I did.  I-I-It's just like Anthony Robbins says, "I'm a winner.  Nobody can stop me but me!" 
 Well, you know, I think everyone's doing really well considering the fact that she was so young. 
 It's always hard to see the young ones called home, especially on an exploding thresher.  It's just so odd and gross. 
 You know that sometimes it's hard to understand God's great plan. 
 Yeah. 
 #1 May I have a tissue? 
 But the show must go on. (she faces Iris) I gotta get a hold of Ted and ask him if we can use that barn light as a spot again.  So you watch the Jell-o salad, okay? 
 All right.  Okay. 
 #1 ...Oh, yeah-right.  I ain't gonna be in no goddamn pageant!  Look what happened to that dork-ass farm girl. 
 #1 Yah-yah.  Everyone says this is a big accident?  She got iced because she wins everything, and this time someone didn't want her to win. 
 #1 Girls check in, but they don't check out. 
 #1 (raising cigarette into frame) Yeah. 
 And tendu.  Close.  Tendu.  Close. Tendu.  Close.  Plie.  And repeat. Suck in the belly, girls, and tuck in the tushes! 
 Ow!  Oh, God.  It's so em-so embarrassing. 
 (V.O.) (labored breaths) My winning...the Mount Rose... 
 ...American Teen Princess Pageant... 
 
 (labored breaths) ...Amber does my hair...once a week. 
 (flattered and embarrassed) Well...it's the least I can do for the reigning Mount Rose Junior Miss Amer-- 
 What? 
 Huh?  Oh...Uh, just a little snarl... 
 There we go. 
 (delusional) Beautiful... Maybe next week... a perm. 
 Yah... sure... 
 Hellooo, Little Mary Sunshine! (pretending to notice camera) What?!  Oh-oh my God!  Lights! Camera!  And me without a stitch of make-up on.  What are you guys doin' here? 
 What're you doin' here? 
 Oh, Amber, like you're the only one who visits Mary. 
 (to Becky) Who are you? 
 (covering) "Who are you?!"  Oh Mary, you kill me. (to camera) She always says that.  It's a little game we play.  Every week - same dippy little look on her face.  "Who are you - who are you?"  Just like that. (in Mary's face) It's me - Becky - and I brought your favorites. 
 How nice, Becky, she's anorexic. 
 (sotto, reprimanding tone) She's skinny, not deaf, Amber. 
 ... Dreams?  Yah-sure I got kem... Sometimes I dream of winnin'... I dream of gettin' outta Mount Rose and bein' a big time reporter like Diane Sawyer.  I mean, guys get outta Mount Rose all the time for hockey scholarships or prison.  But the pageant's kinda my only chance. 
 ... Yah-1963.  Her beauty worked against her when she started as a reporter in Louisville, her hometown. Those were different times. 
 (O.S.) (yelling, coughing) Hey, Amber, y'get my smokes? 
 (smiling) That's my mom. (yelling) I'll get kem in a sec. 
. 
 (surprised by cameras) Oh shit! 
 They're from L.A.  They wanted to see my room and film me for their movie. 
 (mock-touched, to crew) Oh... How quickly they grow up. (exiting, smiling) Hey, if they ask you to take off your shirt, get the money first. 
." 
 ...You betcha.  S'posed to be colder-n- a witches tit tonight... 
 (nervous laugh) Oh, Lester.  He loves his weather, y'know. 
 (looking to crew, O.S.) Hey, ya like it?  Open it...Yah-the globe.  Pull at the equator there. 
 We're not in the showroom, Dear. 
 Fits three full-size booze bottles. The cassette deck pulls outta Afghanistan, there. 
 (embarrassed) Mommm... 
 Lester? 
 Oh, all right (to camera) How soon they forget where all this comes from. 
 Japan. 
 That's enough, young lady. 
 "Impartial?"  Outside this house I'm Gladys Leeman, President, Civil Servettes - impartial as the day is long.  But we're inside my home now and I've gotta warn you, I'm wearin' my "wife apron" and "mom hat."  So, I can safely say that I'm the mother of the most talented contestant Mount Rose has ever seen. 
 I'll field that one - Rebecca's saving her voice. 
 Yah-she's damn near as good as that little black fella - with the glass eye. 
 Sammy Davis, Jr., honey. 
 Yeah, yeah, the Jew. 
 Nice one, Dad.  He's dead. 
 ...Yah-then, for the "Judges Interview," each girl has a ten minute get-together with the judges before the pageant... 
 Yes, the Judges Interview.. Each girl has a ten minute get-together with the judges prior to the pageant.  Then we have the... 
 Hey. 
 "Hey" to the folks. 
 Yeah, all right. 
 The Judges Interview. 
 Nope.  No.  Uh-uh.  Never judged a pageant before in my life.  Nope.  No way.  Never around young girls.  Even if I was, why would I wanna be, y'know?  I-I-I don't get off on that kinda thing and that's really why you're askin', right?  S-someone say somethin'? 
 ...Nope.  Never judged nothin' afore -- 
 (pointing at camera) Are we on "Cops?" Are we on "Cops?" Are we on "Cops?" 
 Shut up, Hank.  This here's business. 
 Ow, Harold - Mom said not the head. 
 Well, Mom's dead, so shut your fly trap. 
 I will if you shut your piehole. 
 Don't make me kick-ya where the good Lord split-ya. 
 ...Oh you betcha!  We're happier than the day Hanky got acquitted.  I get made a judge, then the furniture store hires us to paint the whole damn thing. (removing cap) We're gonna use the money to get our mamma a proper headstone.  Oh, and move her out to the cemetery. 
 Hey Tim, Carla - if yous kids don't try to Jew me down none, I'll throw in a matchin' hutch. 
 Four, five, six, seven.  And one. 
 I'm just out here watching the young girls - contestants - like the rest of my friends and neighbors... 
 
 (re: Amber) Are you gettin' her?  Uh, the third one, the blonde one. 
 Hey. 
 See?  Right over there.  Right over there. 
 Leave him alone, leave him alone. It's okay. 
 Oh, this is just a...camera.  I keep it in the glove compartment for car accidents.  Insurance... You guys got a camera and no one's accusin' you of anything, right? 
 So, Brett, do you wanna go to the lake with me on Thursday? 
 Um, actually, I got practice on Thursday. 
 ...Yah-well, maybe Friday, then.  A bunch of us were gonna go cow-tippin'. 
 
 (seeing Amber) Uh, I-uh-I'm kinda busy Friday. 
 Hi. 
 Giver her your tray, Brett.  You're holdin' up the line. 
 Uh... 
 Give it to her! 
 Here, I'll take it.  It's my job. 
 NO... (looking at Becky) It's all right.  I got it.  Don't worry about it. 
 Well, you're supposed to put it in the... 
 Then it must be Wednesday. 
 Leutefisk is Cod Fish that's been salted and soaked in lye for a week or so.  It's best with lots-a butter. 
 So, uh, I-I'm not really busy Friday. I just said that - y'know. 
 I know. 
 So if, uh, you wanted to do somethin'... 
 
 AMBER/BRETT Huntin' season. 
 Well, uh, I'm cuttin' out early today to do a little duck huntin'...but, uh, maybe I could call you tonight. 
 Yah-sure, fine...fine. 
 Okay...well, bye. 
 Bye. 
 No, listen. (whispering as she exits) We shouldn't talk here.  Stop by my house tonight, okay? 
 What do you mean, they take out her butt? 
 (seeing camera in window) Oh, Jesus H. Christ! 
 Are we on "Cops" again? 
 You could be quiet. 
 Hi. 
 Hi. 
 It's just the guys that are...you know, makin' the movie about the pageant.  I told you about kem. 
 Oh, naw.  Hi. 
 This here's Loretta. 
 I tell Annette, I says, "You talk to me durin' my stories, you might as well be talkin' to the wall." (then) You guys want a beer? 
 No.  You just missed her.  Amber got called in to the bone gardens tonight. You just missed her.  She's in a helluva mood today, anyways. 
 Say, yous boys been to the Leeman's? 
 Loretta, shut it. 
 Y'know, if you have, you got all the pictures of the winner you need. 
 Shut it up, Loretta. 
 Oh, Christ, it's true. 
 (drinking beer) Let's just say who should win, who deserves to win is Amber. 
 (mumbled to self) Why don't you paint a big red target on your ass, Loretta. 
 She's the prettiest, y'know.  The best damn tapper.  The most smartest... 
 "Most smartest?"  Oh, that's good, Loretta.  Make sure you get a picture of that.  "Most smartest."  We're cuttin you off and sendin' you home. 
 Well, excuse me, Annette, but I'm braggin' up your kid, here. (to crew) Amber's gonna be the next Diane Sawyer, y'know... 
 I'll be right back.  See ya later. 
 All right, they're makin' a movie. 
 You don't know where this is gonna... 
 I got a hairdo. 
 Why do I think Becky'll win?  You're talkin'... (to Annette) Don't pinch!. (back into camera) You're talkin' kbout the richest family in a small town.  It's front page news when one of kem takes a shit. (she laughs hard) Can one of yous boys give me a ride home? 
 Don't fall for it.  She lives two trailers down. 
 So?  Be real easy. 
 Go on home, Loretta.  Come on.  Go on, the party's over. 
 Anyone? 
 (covering real emotions) Upset about Brett?  Nah.  Hazard of the trade.  I don't really have time for guys anyways.  It's weird, though. He took it right between the eyes. Don't often see that. 
 (cool as a cucumber) He did?  Well, huntin's dangerous...So, anyways, my mom gave me this 30-aught for my sixteenth birthday... 
 MR. LARSON Amber, I need Stella now! 
 Sorry.  I just thought she might not wanna meet her Maker lookin' like a cheap whore. 
 MR. LARSON Well, your "cheap whore" is this family's "lovin' mother." (pointing at Brett) The Clemens said to make him look like he just came from snowmobilin'.  Pink cheeks, and... 
 (starting to mist up) -- red nose and ears.  I know, I know. 
 Sorry I couldn't talk today kcause...I'm scared, okay? (deep breath) I open my locker right after first period and there's a picture of Tammy Curry taped inside. 
. 
 This was written on back. 
 #1 Oh-yah, helluva way to go, there. After some extensive investigation, we figure the Curry girl musta been drivin' and smokin' and KABLEWEY! 
 #2 (holding a Skoal tin) Not enough left of her to fill a tin. 
 Yah-sure, Tammy liked to driver her dad's thresher - she said the heavy vibration helped her think, y'know? But I know for a fact she only smoked after a good drive.  You ask me or anyone else who isn't scared to talk about it - Tammy was murdered. (holding back tears) God, I bet Diane Sawyer never had to deal with crap like this... (to crew guy) Toss me "Caucasian #5," would ya? 
 MR. LARSON Amber... 
 No, don't say it.  Another stray bullet to the head. 
 MR. LARSON You hafta go home.  There's some kinda emergency at the trailer park. 
 Relax, that's my ma's code for, "Bring home milk and a carton-a Luckys." 
 MR. LARSON No.  Loretta called.  There's been a... a fire. 
 Oh my God - no!  Is my mom okay?  Was she home? 
 #1 You family? 
 No, she's just screamin' "Mom, Mom!" kcause she's got Tourettes... She's Annette's kid, dipshit. 
 (to Loretta) Is Mom okay? 
 She's alive, sweetie. 
 Where is she?! 
 She's right over there. 
 Mommmm!  I'll be right behind you in the hearse! 
 Don't let that worry you, Annette! 
 Oh you betcha, this was a doozy. Right now, our chief concern is to stabilize Annette, then, in surgery, remove this here. 
 Oh, Mom, it's so ugly. 
 Ruined a brand-new pair of Lee Press- ons. (weak) Well, I sat down for a beer and KA- BLEWEY!  Next thing I know, somethin' blows through my kitchen window.  Next thing I know, I'm ass up in Loretta's flower bed. 
 #1 (Beavis with a MN accent) Yah-dude, put another fuckin' book under it. 
 #2 (O.S.) Don't say "fuckin'." My ma's got the windows open. 
 #1 A one...two...one-two-three... 
 
!!!! 
 (to Amber) I shoved your tap shoes in my jeans before I was blown outta the house, Honey.  Check with the guy who cut my pants off.  He should have kem. 
 Mom, uh, about that...I-I'm-oh God... 
 Oh-Jesus-Mary-n-Joseph, she's pregnant! (calling after her) If you are - come back, sweetie. Mommy wants to talk, then KILL YOU! 
 (running after Amber) Annette, why don't you just see if there's any beer left in that can and relax a bit. 
 You're what?! 
 I-I'm quittin' the pageant. 
 I heard you, I was just tryin' to scare you into changin' your mind.  Oh for Chrissakes, Amber, the woman clung to your tap shoes while flyin' through the air like a Goddamn lawn dart! 
 Oh God, I'm dead... 
 Hey, lil' Miss Sad-pants and her friend Serious Sally, how kbout some nice cool mints to turn those frowns upside-down. "S." 
 (to candy striper) D'ya think a nice cool mint'd help if I shoved your head up your ass? 
 So, what do I say? 
 Simple.  Just say, "Mom, I know you sacrificed everything - relationships, dreams - your tummy, ass and thighs - all to bring me into this world.  All so I could have tap lessons and be in the pageant - the same one you were in.  But, y'know what?  I'm quittin'." There.  Easy as pie. 
 Oh my God.  I'm so dead... 
 Yeah, you betcha... 
 (throwing mints) Go on!  Get out! 
 Mom, look, don't say anything.  First of all, I'm not pregnant. 
 I ain't lettin' go ktil you tell me what's up.  I'm reaching' a point where I'd kill someone for the nicotine on their fingernails. 
 (deep breath) Okay.  Yesterday I...I got this picture.  So I kinda, y'know, I'm thinkin' no.  I'm gonna, I-I-I'm gonna quit the pageant. 
 What?! 
 Ow! 
 (to camera) Would yous boys excuse us a second? Loretta, you too. 
 Nice mouth you got there, Mom, but I- I'm not goin' through this again. 
 You're not goin' through this again? You?  You're not the one who knows how Jiffy Pop feels. 
 Oh, c'mon... First the picture of Tammy, then Brett Clemens, now this? It's scary. 
 Let me tell you "scary," Amber.  Look at me.  Do you wanna look like you been rode hard and put away wet at my age?  I'm a "lifer" here.  Best I can hope for is to end up in a descent "raisin ranch" where they'll change me twice a day. 
 That's it, I'm goin'... 
 Honest to God, if I got to do it over? I'd start walkin' outta this town the minute I took my first step. Practically the only thing I wouldn't do different is have you... 
 God I hope that's you and not your concussion talkin'. 
 (smiling) It's me...I just don't want this to be the thing you'd do over.  This pageant's your ticket outta here.  I know you can win, Amber. 
 I love you much. 
 Hell-no, she ain't quittin'. 
 No.  Mom said if I did, she'd look up my dad and marry him. 
 No.  She never hid the fact that my dad picked his career over us.  What'd she used to say? 
 "Once a carnie, always a carnie." 
 Oh-yah. EXT. MOUNT ROSE STREET - MORNING 
 #1 The Atkins fire?  Foul play?  Shit-no. After some thorough investigatin', we determined it musta been a bad wirin'. Mosta them trailer-folk plug a TV, VCR, crock pot and Fry-daddy into one outlet and don't think nothin' of it ktil KABLEWEY! 
 #2 (taking a pinch of Skoal) Not enough left to fill a tin. 
 "Bad wirin'?!"  Well, if that ain't the biggest crock-a-shit ever. (turning on the candy striper) Ooowwww-Jesus!  Did K-Mart have a sale on dull needles? 
 I-I just need one more "do-over." 
 So, remember the three most important parts of a good interview... 
 Okay, everybody, listen up! 
 Number one, American Teen Princess' don't cross their legs like streetwalkers. 
 All right.  Number two: the judges are as nervous as you are. 
 V.F.W. - 
 (after long beat) Uh, I-I guess I could answer that. Yep.  We're ready.  So, we should probably get the young girls in here, then.  Y'know, to start the interviews... 
 V.F.W. - 
 (trouble reading) Uh, "if you could be any tree in the woods, what kinda tree would you be?" 
 (long pause) Dogwood. 
 Green? 
 A tree?  I can be any tree you want. Gimme a minute. 
 One with strong roots in a community like Mount Rose, a solid Christian trunk and long leafy branches to provide shade for handicapped kids on a hot summer day. 
 You guys know the retard's pants are open? (laughing) I don't want to see that. 
 "Who would you pick to be president, dead or alive?" 
 Brett Favre! 
 My mother, kcause she could solve world hunger with one of her blue- ribbon rhubarb pies, create world peace with one of her prayers and still find time to look beautiful...for my dad, Lester Leeman. 
 D-do you like to swim? 
 Oh-yah, I love to swim.  When I was in New York, I met Greg Louganis at one-a my brothers' shows... 
 What the hell is she trying to say? (yelling) Say it! 
 The ktards pants are completely off! 
 Close up shop.  Close up shop, Hank. 
 Harold! 
 Close up shop! 
 
 You Amber Atkins? 
 (O.S.) Yes.  Yes I am.  Thank you, hello. 
 "Name and spell all the United States in alphabetical order." 
 Seriously? 
 (O.S.) Ah-yep. 
 Well, ah...Alabama.  A-L-A-B-A-M-A. Alaska.  A-L-A-S-K-A.  Arizona.  A-R-I- Z-O-N-A. 
 West Virginia.  W-E-S-T-V-I-R-G-N-I-A. Wisconsin.  W-I-S-C-O-N-S-O-N. Wyoming.  W-Y-O-M-I-N-G. 
 (looking at others) Uh-okay, then. 
 With two weeks until the pageant... (continued labored breaths) I was practicing my talent.  Finishing my costume, brushing up on current events, and running eighteen miles a day on about four hundred calories.  I was ready. 
 Coupla things...Gladys wants to be sure we go in show order today.  All right?  So very important.  Don't forget that. 
 (unusually serious) Oh-yah, really nervous.  It's been about two months.  I haven't told my boyfriend yet.  How did you know? 
 (suddenly perky) Oh!  Nervous about the pageant!  Yah sure! 
 There are eight thousand sequins and fifteen hundred beads on the skirt, alone.  My mom and Mrs. Lopez make it. She's one of my father's many Mexican (Me'hee'kan) workers he lifts from the poverty they know in Mexico (Me'heek'koe). 
 Yah-my ma's clothes all melted onto mine forming like this big polyester meteor in our closet, y'know?  But, in some kinda weird miracle, our neighbor boy, Kenny Johanson, found my tap costume on the roof-a their trailer while he was settin' coon traps for his dad.  Here's the weird part.  It was still on the hanger. 
 And, uh, this is my lucky bolt.  They think it fell from a DC-10.  The doctor said I was lucky the flat side hit me, um, otherwise it coulda gone right through my head. (holds up red tap dress) I know, I know, gives me the willies, too.  I guess the explosion... 
 (slow, due to signing) Amber?  Can we switch numbers?  I need to go first. (smiling to camera) My cousin just had a deaf baby and I get to go see it! 
 Yah-sure, eight's my luck number anyway.  Diane Sawyer was number eight at her local. 
 Thank you. 
 (loud whisper) I'll be honest.  This is a hard time for me.  This is the part of the pageant when you realize that tomorrow night, all but one of these girls will walk out of here a loser.  It's hard for me to know how that must feel, but I'm sure it doesn't feel good. 
 Don't you get it?  I was supposed to go first.  I was contestant number one.  That light was meant for my head.  If Janelle hadn't wanted to change numbers... God, I owe my life to that deaf baby. 
 That was your mom.  She wanted you to have this. 
 (taking drink) Really, Loretta? 
 (avoiding eye contact) You-betcha. 
 My mom wanted me to have this? 
 Oh, shut up.  I thought it might help you get some sleep. 
 Loretta, never have kids. 
 Well God-love-ya for thinkin' I still could. 
 Oh...my...God!  It's just like Diane Sawyer's!  kCourse it's not a size ten, Diane was a little hippy back then.  Oh, thank you!  Thank you! Thank you! 
 MR. HOWARD 
 MRS. HOWARD Go Molly!  Go!  Number one daughter! 
 Whooo!  Leslie kicks Teen Princess ass!  Go Muskies! 
 Welcome, welcome.  Okay, alright, now. Is this for me or the gown? 
 I chose Mount Rushmore, because to live in a country where you can take an ugly old mountain and put faces on it, faces of great Americans, who did so much to make our country super great, well that makes me - Rebecca Leeman - PROUD TO BE AN AMERICAN! 
 Living in a country where Lady Liberty keeps her flame burning bright. 
 The Washington Monument... 
 Living in a country where no matter who you are or where you come from, you can grow up and become what you've always dreamed of, makes me, Amber Atkins, proud to be an American! 
 Uh, this, uh, my Uncle Phil's World's Largest Ball of Twine, in Bundy Minnesota, makes me, um, it makes me proud I'm American - I kinda misunderstood the assignment. 
 Okay, okay!  Listen-up.  Coupla notes from last night's dress rehearsal. (off clipboard) Number one, Gladys says a coupla yous are gettin' sexy with your hips durin' the "Physical Fitness" routine... 
 Oh my God!  My-my tap costume's gone. 
 Uh, Amber?  We're not puttin' on our Talent costumes. You need to put on your "Physical Fitness" outfit.  And let's shake a leg, ladies. 
 No, wait.  It-it was here before the openin' number...wait.  What am I sayin'?  I should just ask you, Becky. Where is it? 
 What? 
 You heard me.  Where is it? 
 If you're gettin' at somethin', you better just say it. 
 I just did. 
 Well then, you better be willin' to back it up, kcause you're talkin' like crazy. 
 Oh-oh, you bring me some of that snotty attitude, Becky - bring it on. 
 Well, as my mother says at Sunday dinner, "Come and get it," bitch! 
 Oh, I'll "get it."  I'll "get it" all right.  I might even take seconds. 
 If you want seconds, then I'll make sure it's hot enough for ya. 
 Bitch! 
 (stepping between them) Girls!  Girls! 
 Give me your stringy-ass hair! 
 I'll get you! 
 (O.S.) (barely audible) Oh God, don't stop kem now... 
 You're choking my, you fucking bitch! 
 (putting hand over camera) Y'know, I-I don't think yous boys should, uh, should be in here while the girls are changin'. 
 I hate her! 
 We all do.  Now let's go. 
 Yah-so how kbout a big round of applause for last year's Mount Rose American Teen Princess, in a farewell performance.  Who could forget her lip- synching to "Don't Cry Out Loud," by Melissa Manchester.  And here she is, Mary Johanson! 
 All right, why don't we take up the stepladders, all right?  For the Physical Fitness number? 
 (picking up her stool) They're wet. 
 Hey, my hands are stuck. 
 Well, hold kem away from you so it doesn't get on the outfits. (turning to Servettes) What kinda mental retard paints step ladders the morning of a pageant. 
 
 (under throughout) Here come the judge - pinch, pinch - here come the judge - pinch, pinch - here come the judge... 
 Get back!  Get back, you total retard! 
 Go Hank! 
 I'm okay, I'm okay - dress is fine. I'm okay...well, our other judges are Jean Kangas and John Dough... 
 (loud whisper) Opening number looked, uh, good. Solid.  But now you're gonna have to actually dance, so... (holds up jar of Vaseline) Here.  Put a dab of this on the old choppers, ladies.  It'll help you smile.  And when they're lookin' at your teeth - God willin' - they won't be lookin at your feet. 
 BACKSTAGE - WALKWAY 
 Hurry up. 
 Okay, guys, I think we all got some. You just take it off. 
 Here, I didn't get any. 
 Here, have some. 
 Hand me another white one. 
 Listen, you guys, don't go int the bathroom.  Tess blew chunks all over. Man, she ate a big dinner. 
 Maybe she shoulda shoved that lucky bolt down her throat for desert. 
 (sotto, to other girls) And the winner of the "Spirit" award goes to... 
 (reading from notecard) "I'd like to take you back seventeen years, when a peanut farmer was in the White House, a group-a boys callin' themselves kQueen' topped the record charts and Gladys Leeman was Gladys Wood and she was Mount Rose American Teen Princess!" 
 (taking mic) Thank you, thank you.  You know, I won the talent contest by sewing these culottes, Butterick pattern 7-4-3-2. Can you believe it?  They still fit! 
 She had a big ass then, she's got a big ass now. 
 (pausing for applause) Thank you, thank you. Our next eontestant is ready, so let's welcome her: Tess Weinhaus! 
 BACKSTAGE - LEFT 
 (in the b.g. throughout) The beagle is known for it's howl. "Aaauuuuuhhhh."  The Pekinese has it's own distinctive bark.  "Yip, yip, yip."  Not to be confused with the Chihuahua's, "Yap, yap, yap."  But none can compare to the greatest bark of all - the German Shepherd... 
 (to camera, loud whisper) ...Yah-it's just gone... (eyes welling up) I mean, I-I just wanna tap, y'know? I'm not sayin' I'm the best, or that I'd even win, but shouldn't I at least get a chance to compete? (starting to sob) I just wanted my Mom to see me dance. 
 (loud whisper) Amber - Amber, c'mere. 
 Please, Mrs. K, I got so much Vaseline on my teeth, I'm gonna be smilin' for a year. 
 No.  Here. 
 Mrs. K-- 
 You're... you're special and... Ah hell, go out there and kick some Leeman ass. 
 Roll him over -- (clap, clap, clap) Lay him flat (clap, clap, clap) Pin his shoulders (clap, clap, clap) To the mat (clap, clap, clap) Roll him over, lay him flat, pin his shoulders, to the mat!  Yeahhhh! 
 (without emotion) Fade in...Earth.  The year is two- thousand twenty-four.  The question on everyone's mind:  What is...Soylent Green? 
 (loud whisper) Mrs. Clark, why are you doing this to me?  Why're you pretendin' you don't know what's goin' on? 
 Amber, I'm sorry.  I really am.  But you know the rules.  All talent costumes hafta be okay'd by Gladys before the pageant. 
 But, doesn't someone taking your costume so you can't compete, overrule that rule? 
 Sorry.  I-I don't make the rules. 
 This, this... This is bullshit! 
 Amber Atkins!  That is not American Teen Princess language! 
 Good, kcause this isn't an American Teen Princess Pageant - it's, it's Nazi Germany! 
 (shaking head) Where do they get this stuff... 
 Mrs. Leeman? 
 (turning) Huh? 
 I-I'm wearin' this costume.  I'm, uh, I'm gonna do my talent tonight. 
 Oh really - I don't think so. (suddenly aware of camera) Uh, Amber, I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but rules state that a costume must be okay'd at least a week in advance.  And this... (pointing to costume) This is why we have the rule.  My goodness gracious, I couldn't allow a neckline this low on stage.  We have kids in the audience. 
 But, you - I mean... It's not my fault.  I-I... Please?  I didn't do anything wrong... 
 (climaxing) That's why... I must say... (raising arm upward) Soylent Green... is... people. 
 Oops, that's my cue. 
 (drying her eyes) Good luck, Molly. 
 Thank you, Molly. 
 (arm around Amber) Oh, Amber... 
 (can't catch breath) I-I-I-I-I-, j-uh-j-uh-just wanted to compe-e-e-e-ete. 
 I can't believe this is happenin'.  I can't believe she said you couldn't... 
 (still sobbing) "Here," wh-wh-what? 
 My jacket.  Take it kcause, y'know, I got my costume okay'd before the pageant.  You can wear it. 
 Oh man, Lisa, I wouldn't do this. 
 (to Lisa) They're never gonna let you perform naked.  I asked. 
 Shut up, yous guys.  Look, Amber, I'm not gonna win.  And let's be honest, a family only needs one "Liza" and you know Peter's got much better legs than me. 
 Your parents'd kill you. 
 Oh c'mon, I love kem, but you know they only had me kcause Peter needed a kidney. 
 Lis, I want to, I really do, but... Oh, I can't. 
 Then do it for Peter.  Mrs. Leeman used to call him a "skinny little fag" when he'd bag her groceries.  He'd pop his Nancy-belt if his old jacket somehow, I don't know, got her back. 
 Yah? 
 Oh-you-beccha. 
 Now, it's with overwhelming pride that I introduce contestant number six, who also happens to be president of her class - two years running - a member of the honor roll and the new President of the Lutheran Sisterhood Gun Club - Rebecca Ann Leeman! 
 (talking over music) I don't know how many of you know this, but I've got a very special fella in my life - that's right, I do... And if nobody minds, I'd like to sing a little song, just for him. 
. 
 C'mon, Lisa.  You're up next. 
 I quit.  And, uh, since my costume, y'know, was okay'd a month ago?  I'm givin' it to Amber. 
 Boy, I'd hate to follow that.  Wow! 
. 
 Uh, we're gonna, y'know, compare scores and uh, figure out a-a winner. kCause we don't know the winner yet... I mean, I-I don't know who Jean and Harold picked.  No idea.  Did Gladys send you in here? 
 I know the winner!  I know the winner! I know the winner! 
 No you don't!  Shut your goddamn mouth, you son-of-a-bitch!! 
 Wait a second. 
 You shut it!  You goddamn retard! 
 EE-AAAYEEEE-AAAAYOUIAAAEEEEEEEE! 
 Come on!  Hankey here can't help it if he was born crazier than a shithouse rat! 
 For fuck's sake, why didn't ya leave him with a sitter? 
 Real nice.  You know the sitter's dead. 
 So, anyone talk to Janelle? 
 Yah-I brought her some flowers this morning.  She's in the room next to my mom.  She's super happy. 
 She's happy? 
 Why happy? 
 (losing it) Oh, good Lord!  What're they doin'? Lettin' the retard count votes?! 
 It's time, ladies. 
. 
 Welcome back, everyone.  Judges.  Our Second Runner-up and winner of a fifty- 
 (O.S.) You rule, Leslie! 
 Our next prize, a seventy-five dollar scholarship -- 
 Oh, thank you so much! 
 
 Shit. 
 We was robbed. 
 Okay.  Take her purse. 
 Bye mom. 
 We was robbed. 
 It's okay. 
 Oh, Mom's okay.  They're just givin' her a ride back.  She almost blew outta the back of Loretta's pick-up on the way over. 
 Thank God for bunge cords. 
 (tearing up) ...Yah-well, at least, y'know, I got to perform.  And Mom got to see me. (crying) I guess number eight only worked for Diane Sawyer... 
 Hey-hey, I'm Second Runner-up!  Whooo! I got second place! 
 Third. 
 Huh? 
 No, it was worth it.  Amber shoulda won. 
 LISA'S FATHER I'll tell ya one thing.  Peter never woulda pulled a shenanigan like that. 
 Well, y'know what, dad?  Y'know what? Peter's gay! 
 LISA'S FATHER What?! 
 Well, it's all happenin' so fast. Goodness-gracious, it hardly seems real, y'know?  I mean, I won!  I'm the winner!  I'm going to State! 
 She's the winner and we're going to state. 
 #1 What a surprise.  Gladys Leeman's finally gonna go to State. And she'll probably ride on Becky's ass all the way to Nationals, too. 
 Ahhh.  Beautiful as a whore's ass today.  Eh, boys? 
 (into bullhorn) Hey!  Turn that float around.  You think a swan's gonna swim ass first up Main Street? 
 Yah-Gladys had me order that swan special made from Mexico (Me'hee'koe) in case Becky won.  I do a lotta business with those people.  I always offer to pay kem in tacos. (laughing) Whoo, they love that. 
 (into bullhorn) Yah-hello-hello...shit!  How the fuck do ya work this damn thing, huh?  Oh. Welcome to our first ever American Teen Princess Parade - which also happens to be the unveiling of our new sewer system! 
 Let's get this straight right now.  We wouldn't have been late at all if it wasn't for you. 
 I want to have the big bag of little donuts. 
 You get nothing, Hank, okay? 
 I want to get the big bag of little donuts. 
 There's your paint can.  The next time you drink window cleaner, I'm just gonna leave it in ya. 
 C'mon, Rebecca, you wanted it.  Now get up there.  Ride it side-saddle if you have to - like a horse.  C'mon, now. 
 It smells funny.  Like gasoline. 
 Oh for chrissakes, everything smells like that in Mexico. 
 My dress'll reek. 
 Listen, little missy, this cost your dad a pretty penny.  Now get your ass up there and show me some teeth. 
 Amber, if I die from these fumes, will you be sure to cover the hickies on my neck? 
 Yeah... 
 And the bite marks on my ears? 
 (slowly turning) Yes... 
 I know it doesn't matter, but on my inner thighs. 
 Yes, Leslie! 
 Help...Hank!  Help...Hank! Help...Hank!  Help...Hank! 
 Okay, I designed the float, you know. And, what's gonna happen here is that this is going to look like a glistening lake beneath the swan. 
 Uh, Gladys? 
 What! 
 We need more bars! 
 This is -- what? 
 Enid ate a whole pan! 
 I swear to God she can't do anything by herself. 
 (to camera) Oh-yah, this is exactly how I pictured it.  Chokin' on swan gas. 
! 
 Oh my God!  My Baby!  The swan ate my baby! (grabbing at burning float) Ow-ow-ow!  Get up, Rebecca!  Get outta there!  We've gotta go to State!  Oh hot! (she scorches her blouse) Oh, damn.  I like this blouse. Rebecca!  Get up, angel face.  Time to go to State!  Ow-ow-ow! 
 Gladys!  Stop it! 
 Guess it wasn't a garage sale as much as it was a bake sale.  Ah- hahahahahahahaha! 
 So help me, Gladys. 
 Becky was my only shot at state! 
 That's enough! 
 Let go!  Let go of me.  Oh my God, it's COPS! 
 Hey, man, how're you doin'? 
 Long time, no see. 
 That's why, dear Lord, it's with such great sorrow that we turn over to you a young woman whose dream of ridin' on a giant swan brought about her untimely death.  Maybe it's your way of telling us to buy American. 
 As, uh, actin' President of the Mount Rose Civil Servettes, it's my duty since Becky can't fulfill her duties - kcause she's dead-n-all - to make you Mount Rose American Teen Princess. 
 #1 Turn around and let me see. 
 What is wrong with you? 
 I don't know.  I just didn't wanna win like this. 
 You stop right there.  You are a good person.  Good things happen to good people. 
 Really? 
 No.  It's pure bullshit, sweetie. You're lucky as hell, so you might as well enjoy it.  Let's get you a root beer float. 
 Okay. 
 Do you guys want some shots?  I'm buyin'. 
 (V.O.) I never liked her, but she didn't deserve to die in the belly of a swan like that.  The whole thing's just kinda sad and lame at the same time. 
 (handing over packet) This came for you, sweetie. 
 Ah!  It's from State!  Oh my God! 
 What?  For chrissakes, spit it out. 
 I'll be stayin' overnight at... The Airport Howard Johnsons! 
 Right by the airport - Oh, Amber... 
 There's an indoor swimming pool! Ahhhh! 
 All right, say "Airport Ho-Jo." 
 Airport Ho-Jo! 
 I got it!  Yeah, why don't ya take a 
 Loretta, don't do that. 
 I'm sorry.  They're just starin'. 
 I gotta work with these women. 
 Okay, sweetie, that's all right. Let's go.  Let's go. 
 And you are... 
 Mount Rose American Teen Princess. 
 Funny, you don't look dead. 
 Okay ladies, listen up.  I'm Colleen Douglas and this raving beauty on my right -- 
 I'm a mirror. 
 Correction.  This spunky monkey on my right is Terry Macey.  And we are your Minnesota American Teen Princess State Board. 
 We're also the co-founders of the Minnesota Modeling Academy. Applications are at the tiki bar. We'll wave the fifty dollar application fee if you list a friend and put her address. 
 That's right. 
 Okay? 
 Mm-hm. 
 So...you're cute.  Oh, I see you're married. (to bartender) You catch this in your mouth, I'll give you a present.  All right?  Open wide... (she throws the olive) Oh, God, you got that on the first try.  Come here. 
 Due to budgetary cutbacks - and the fact that Nationals didn't cough up a damn nickel this year - you won't be stayin' overnight.  So pay attention, you've got about eight hours until showtime. 
 MR. MELCHOIR Remember to count, ladies.  Cross on the left and arms up on eight!  On the beat!  On the beat!  Keep on it!  Keep movin' it!  C'mon, Miss Forest Lake, take that stick out of your ass or I will.  All right.  Very nice.  Now come on, arms out.  We're in the front row.  Come on, sell it!  That's very nice.  Remember, figure eights, ladies... 
 (tipsy, holding up glass) I can sum up our entire philosophy with this glass.  I look at it and say, "it's half full."  Which, in the beauty pageant biz means, "Where the hell's my waiter!" 
 MR. MELCHOIR Miss Burnsville, you're up next... 
 Don't tell anyone, but, I have a little secret weapon of my own. 
 I don't eat shellfish.  Mom always says, "Don't ever eat nothin' that can carry its house around with it - who knows the last time it's been cleaned."  She should know. 
 ... I've done about thirty-five pageants.  I guess my most memorable one'd have to be Miss Teen America, 1995.  It was in Vegas.  My roommate did Adam West. 
 (whispering to camera) Oh my God.  Look at her, she's awesome.  I should just go home now. 
 Okay, okay, that's enough - I get it. 
 Oh - oh my God... (doubling over in pain) I gotta go! 
 (calling after her) Well, you're gonna have to do somethin' with those nerves before Nationals.  Thirty-million people aren't gonna wait while you run to the john. 
 (hand on earpiece) Today, a beauty pageant turned ugly. A salmonella dysentery outbreak, now traced to improperly refrigerated shellfish, was believed to be the cause.  Joining us now is David Richardson, a member of the documentary crew filming the pageant. He was there when tragedy struck. 
 
 Fuckin' beauty queens blowin' chunks everywhere.  I've never seen anything like it before, and I live in L.A. (laughs) Hey, Ed. 
 #2 Can you tell us any thing about the controversy?  Is there a controversy here?  Has there been sabotage? 
 (with forced sobriety) People, people - wait, wait a minute, here.  Uh, while we haven't ruled out sabotage from neighboring state pageants - Iowa, Wisconsin, North Dakota... 
 Yeah. 
 Dakota. 
 Ohio... 
 That bitch from... 
 What? 
 Wisconsin. 
 All right, then. 
 The bitch. 
 The important thing is that we have a winner... 
 COLLEEN (ON T.V.) And, on behalf of the Minnesota Modeling Academy, we proudly present Amber Atkins.  Your new Minnesota American Teen Princess. 
 Yah, ain't it just a kick in the fuckin' ass!?!?  I'll be a snake's prick if tragedy and pageants ain't got a way of bringin' folks together... (directly at camera) Yous boys tell me when want me to start, okay? 
 Amber?!  What-the-hell's goin' on around here?  I'm Mount Rose American Teen Princess. Where the hell's my tiara?  I bet those sneaky little Japs took it... 
 I, uh... I feel like... I, uh, I need a shower. 
 Jesus-Mary-n-Joseph I hope Gladys Leeman hangs herself in her cell when she hears this. 
 Uh-huh.  No, no.  Gosh, no.  You know I still don't want to be on camera... 
 WOMEN'S FACILITY 
 Get your sweet ass off the bunk, Cinnamon. 
 I just, I just can't believe it.  I'm Minnesota's American Teen Princess! 
 Our baby's going to Nationals! Lincoln, Alabama - look out! 
 I'm gonna be on TV!  Just like Diane Sawyer. 
 Annette, just use your hand. 
 They told me to practice. 
 Okay, ready?  Here's the signal I'm gonna give Ma when I'm on TV. 
 My little Carol Burnett. 
 (into bullhorn) Here she is, Minnesota's American Teen Princess - soon to be the next America's American Teen Princess - our little Amber! 
 LINCOLN, ALABAMA. 
 SUPER: ...PERMANENTLY 
"... 
... 
 
 Come on out, you little blonde piece of trailer park trash! 
 
 We are here in the sixth hour of a shoot-out between Gladys Leeman - 
. 
 This is Amber Atkins reporting live from the Food Shack for...KRLH News. One of our reporters has just been shot. 
. 
 
