 
 The N.T.S.B. guys are here. 
 (Doesn't look up) Yep. 
 It's here. 
 What about dinner tonight? 
 We go out to dinner - we might never come back. 
 Okay. (Beat) I want to wake up with you.    I want to... 
 ...at least see where you live. 
 I live...here. 
 Lieutenant Nunally, please. 
 No.  Thank you. (beat) I'll see him later. 
 You're - home early. 
 I just felt a sudden urge. 
 Are you...okay? Crawford shrugs, smiling strangely.   He looks pained. 
 I could use a hug. Jennifer submits guiltily.   Crawford embraces her, tight. She waits it out, until: 
 Have you been drinking? He lets go and she steps back.   Studying him.   Scared. 
 I've been watching you sleep.   At night. 
 (Gently) That's creepy. 
 Sometimes when I'm at work, I'll start thinking about you and I'll just get - just - overwhelmed. 
 Tommy - 
 It's a dense, crushing - geophysical force. Like I'm pinned. At the core - where things change. (beat) You ever get that way about me, Jen? 
 What are you talking about? 
 I'm trying to describe my feelings. 
 Those don't sound like feelings. 
 No? (Beat) What's the sound of one feeling...in a forest? 
 You think you're so much smarter than I am. That must make you feel very powerful. 
 Helpless, actually. Silence. 
 Okay.     Maybe it's time to really talk. 
 No. 
 No? He shakes his head.     Frayed and worn, she sighs. 
 Fine. Whatever. I'll make you some dinner. He watches her turn and head for the kitchen.          To her back: 
 I know.     Everything. She stops, exhales.    Looking down.   Afraid.    Grateful it's happening at last. 
 I'm so sorry. 
 Don't be. Knowledge is pain.         I'm used to that. Jennifer winces, feeling some sympathy.     Preparing herself to turn and end it, to grow, to move on. 
 It's not like I don't let little pleasures, in return for the pain. 
 Tom?   Jen?   Everything okay in there? 
 Everybody just LEAVE US ALONE! He calmly aims up at the frosted-glass transom and fires three times - watching Gifford fling himself away. Crawford collects the shell casings, wipes them, drops them back on the floor. Peeling off the rubber gloves, he crosses to the fireplace and throws them into the flames. They curl and blacken. 
 You the Negotiator? 
 Yes? 
 Who is this? 
 Get rid of the vampires. Nunally is confused; Crawford gestures at the flood-lit lawn outside. Nunally glances back, sees the SWAT teams and - down the street - the distant barricades, the media. He nods, steps in and lets the door shut.     Careful silence. 
 Do I call you Rob? 
 Not vampires. 
 Not vampires.     Ghouls.   Sorry. Nunally nods, humoring him, glancing around. Sees the small pool of blood where Jennifer fell. Plays it cool. 
 Is that your best shot? (Beat) So to speak. 
 Tell you what: I will if you will. Nunally frowns, wary. Crawford moves to the coffee table in the center of the room, holds his gun out over it. 
 We both put down our guns.      At the same time. Crawford gestures to a chair across the room - by the foyer door, near Nunally. 
 We set them down and step away. (Beat) Then you can "pay more attention" to what I'm saying. Nunally studies Crawford...and the gun, hovering above the coffee table. Looking for a trick, a catch. But there isn't one. If Crawford sets down his gun and steps away, he'll be standing in the open center of the room. 
 Happy ending, then. Nunally stares Crawford in the eyes - - then slowly takes his gun from his shoulder holster. Eyes on each other from across the room - moving very slowly - the two men cautiously set down their guns - - and step away.   Crawford smiles. Nunally smiles, too, reassuring and false. Begins to edge forward - alert to the possibility of a lunge for the gun or having another weapon. But Crawford stays absolutely still. 
 It's Tom. 
 You can call me Tom. 
 Yes. Crawford gestures to a library alcove, behind him, out of view. 
 I don't think she is.     I shot her, Rob. Nunally's nodding, edging to look into the alcove - 
 It was like I just suddenly - snapped. We were arguing - and I got the gun. 
 And I shot her in the head.   I know it was wrong. (Beat) Are you listening to me? But Nunally is not. He's frozen - staring, shocked, at the back wall of the alcove - which he can now see. There's a big framed black-white photograph: a portrait of Jennifer Crawford. 
 You know, I think I read somewhere that a good place to find a pulse is the femoral artery. It's on the inner surface of the upper thigh. If you put your fingers - you know, right up inside her dress - 
 Wait a second - she's not dead! Nunally whirls - everyone freezing, breathless, falling silent. The Paramedics kneeling around Jennifer work - - as Crawford lies on the floor, staring at his wife. Like she's a machine that defied astronomical odds and refused to behave according to his calculations. 
 You all right? Nunally "wakes" - nods.   Absently: 
 Wooton Sims?! Willy holds up a finger, talking into his cell: 
 Wooton - SIMS?! Wooton Sims?! 
 You asshole! 
 How the hell did you get a job at Wooton Sims?! I can't even get an interview! 
 I've been here five years. I'm your supervisor. I graduated USC, summa! 
 MONA                            NORMAN No problem.                     I'm serious. 
 A tuxedo?! Oh, come on!     You are so full of shit. 
 What's going on? 
 "Bob" Wooton?! 
 You're gonna need to pick out a style, Willy. 
 For the tuxedo. Willy hesitates, in over his head.   A DDA helpfully does the Travolta finger-in-the-air pose. 
 You wanna go Classic.    Fix him up. 
 We'll get you something Classic. (Picks up a ringing phone) Willy Slocum's office. 
 Make sure it comes with cuff-links and knee-pads. 
 (Hanging up) Willy? Her tone makes him - and everyone else - turn. 
 God wants to see you. 
 Who art on the Eleventh Floor. Willy, startled, looks around. Approving nods, raised eyebrows. He tightens his tie and heads for the elevators. 
 There is no justice! There is no justice in the city of Los Angeles! 
 William No-Middle-Initial Slocum. 
 Sit. (As Willy does:) Eighty-four-percent conviction rate. That's remarkable. 
 With a case load thirty percent higher than any other first-year DDA. (Beat) Of course - you also swapped more cases than the rest of them put together. Willy considers his options.   He always does. 
 You're going to need a middle initial. 
 You're going to Wooton Sims. 
 You'll be able to afford a better suit. But those guys all play squash and have middle names. They go in for the mother's maiden name a lot. Beat. Willy doesn't like the implied personal judgement, but the only way it shows is how calm he stays. 
 So you're a bastard; sometimes I can be a son-of-a-bitch. Maybe you belong here. 
 You're a street-fighter, Willy. You should be in court. We can move you up to better cases. 
 I didn't think so. (Closes the file, stands) Well - you got your litigation experience. Your chops. And your juicy private sector job. Anything else the City of Los Angeles can do for you? Willy's amused.    He stands, too.   As they shake hands: 
 The offer stands. If you get tired of carrying a spear. Willy nods - but Lobruto notes the tiny flicker in his eyes: not getting it and trying to cover. Lobruto smiles gently. 
 It's an opera joke. Give my regards to Bob. 
 I've got an Attempted Homicide. Conley caught it last night, but he's hung up in motions with Gardner. Arraignment in Part Seven, at three o'clock. 
 Thank you.   What's the temperature? 
 You do still actually work here, Willy, right? I mean, you're still going to be cashing your paycheck for another two weeks and everything? 
 Everybody's booked up. Look: it's not going to trial. There's a weapon with prints, and a confession. Take the arraignment and wait for the plea. 
 Spontaneous and signed.   Come on, Willy. Willy sighs.     Looking down at his coffee-soaked suit. 
 You know - I really wish I was going to see this. 
 Mr. Slocum. Nice to see a man who dresses for court. 
 Grapevine has it the punch-line is Wooton Sims. 
 Good for you, double-oh-seven. (Signaling the Bailiff) Let's see what public service is offering you by way of a send-off: 
 The State of California Versus Thomas Crawford. The Defense rises; Crawford hardly pays any attention to the Judge - glancing back and noticing Nunally, whose eyes bore into him, haunted and burning. Crawford stares at him impassively a second, then turns to lean past his P.D. and watch Willy hastily skim the file. 
 Mr. Crawford, you've been charged with section 664 slash 187 of the California Penal Code: Attempted Murder, with additional allegations of Assault With a Deadly Weapon - Penal Code section 245 dash A2, with Great Bodily Injury, P.C. Section 12022.07. (Beat) Do you waive further reading of the complaint and complete statement of rights? 
 P.D.                              (sotto)                    I do.     But, your honor - You do. 
 And do you wish to enter a plea at this time? 
 Not guilty. But I also want to waive my right to counsel, and represent myself. Willy looks up from the file - startled. 
 Do you have a problem with your appointed counsel, Mr. Crawford? 
 No. I just want to do it myself.     I believe it's within my rights. 
 I'm not your client. Try and keep up, would you? The P.D. shuts up, taken aback. The Judge considers Crawford, thoughtful, then turns to Willy. 
 Do the People have an objection or a comment for the record, Mr. Slocum? Willy hesitates, held by Crawford's strange, amused gaze. Shakes it off: 
 Excuse me? Your honor? I'm willing to waive my right to a preliminary hearing and go directly to a jury trial. (To Willy) Does that help? 
 You don't need to look out for Mr. Slocum, Mr. Crawford. The District Attorney's office can shift another prosecutor to the case - 
 No, I like Mr. Slocum. Beat. 
 Mr. Slocum?   He likes you. 
 Mr. Crawford seems to understand his rights and responsibilities. 
 I appreciate your concern for the dignity of my courtroom, Mr. Slocum - considering you're making the argument dressed as a game-show host. Unfortunately, the man is a tax-paying citizen, entitled by our Constitution to try and manipulate the legal system, like everybody else. (turning) 
 I understand.     Thank you. 
 Are the People ready to go to trial without a preliminary hearing? Willy hesitates, irritated. Looks through the file again. Checks Crawford - waiting, polite. 
 Are you a shark? 
 You've been circling the lobby for half-an-hour now, like if you stopped you'd die. 
 Why don't you talk to Bob? Willy stops walking, getting a little careful. 
 Nikki Gardner. Senior Associate, Wooton Sims. 
 On Bob's orders. 
 Interesting. They're each conscious of an unexpected buzz of attraction. The lobby lights flicker, breaking the spell a little. As the CROWD begins to drift toward the auditorium doors: 
 You like opera? 
 Neither do I. With a conspiratorial head-tip, Nikki moves toward the plaza doors. Willy follows. 
 Bob assigned you to my team. I'll supervise your case-work, steer you through the office arcana, and generally keep an eye on you. 
 Kind of like a probation officer. Beat. Willy nods, meeting Nikki's gaze as she looks to make sure he's got it. 
 Wooton Sims expects absolute loyalty and a hundred-and-ten-percent performance. But: you get to work on legendary litigation. National, sometimes global, in scope. It's high- stakes. And cut-throat - even within the team. We burn out associates at an astonishing rate. 
 Yes. 
 Can I ask you something personal? 
 Who are you? Willy doesn't answer. Maybe uncertain what she means. Maybe not wanting her to know. Or even not knowing, himself. 
 We have a guy in our criminal division, fresh out of Yale, named Calvin Tyler. One of our very rich clients gets pulled over, D.U.I. - which is routine bullshit, so Calvin gets it. Against you. Next thing we know, Calvin is fired, and Bob Wooton, who has never even interviewed a junior associate before - let alone hired one - says you're on my team. Willy weighs his options.    Decides to level: 
 Wow. You know what's brilliant about that? 
 You didn't actually do anything all that wrong. 
 You gonna get that? 
 We need to talk about your transition timetable. 
 Bob believes in trial-by-fire. He wants you up-to-speed two weeks from Tuesday, because we're getting on a plane to Chicago for depositions in a class-action against our biggest client, Armstead Pharmaceutical. 
 That's catch-up on three years' work - and you haven't closed out your old job yet. 
 You know, a little bit of fear can be a very healthy thing to have. 
 I'll have them put the Armstead materials in your new office. 
 Marchand. 
 Your gun in that Palisades shooting is no good. 
 It's a perfectly good weapon. A Heckler & Koch nine-millimeter. It's just no good as evidence. It's never been fired. 
 Yep. Bought by Mr. Thomas Crawford and registered to his wife, about a month ago. Apparently a gift. 
 Is that a question? 
 Do you have a question I can answer? Beat.   Willy shakes the puzzle off, irritated: 
 Ya think? 
 (O.S.) Slocum? Willy looks up, at a with another file box. 
 Where do you want it? 
 Is that the idea? Willy sourly gestures to a chair; checks the label as the Messenger sets it down - 
 I picked up at County.    Slip says bring 'em here. Messenger holds out a clipboard. Willy reluctantly signs. As the Messenger leaves, Willy cuts the tape and takes out a folder. Opens it: Crawford has scrawled NO in red marker across the top sheet. Willy turns to the next page.     A big red NO across that, too. Pulls out more documents - flips through: NO - NO - NO - NO - red letters wriggling across the typed pages, like flip-book animation. Beat.   Disturbed, he picks up the phone, dials. 
 Marchand. 
 We can't find it, Willy. 
 I know. I don't know what to tell you. I'm there now. 
 I'm here now. My team has been here twice already. (Beat) Do you really need it? 
 He went pro se, right? 
 You've got a confession and an airtight bunch of circumstantial. (Apologetic) We've gone over this place top-to- bottom three times now, Willy. Willy takes a breath.   Thinks it through. 
 Must be rough, figuring out what you're gonna do with all that money. 
 Oh gee - lemme see if I can express how much sympathy I have: Marchand snaps his phone shut. Willy smiles, hangs up. But then his smile fades, as he glances down again at Crawford's box of papers. Hundreds of pages.   Every single one scrawled NO. Willy considers them. 
 How's my wife? 
 I heard somewhere, I think it was on N.P.R., that you're supposed to talk to people in a coma. Play their favorite music. Supposedly it reaches them. Willy, now ready, lets Crawford study him. 
 You represent Jennifer. The voice of the victim, judicially speaking. But you haven't gone to see her? 
 Too busy getting up to speed on Armstead Pharmaceutical? Beat. 
 I'm not judging you. I think anyone - coming from...what you came from - then paying your way through East-Okie Cowshit College and Tulsa Law by writing papers for Princeton kids on the internet - my God, it must have eaten your liver! Sixty-thousand dollars in debt, eighty-four percent conviction rate: you deserve this. Willy tries to stay in control. 
 I'm permitted the use of a private investigator. 
 Why not?   You're investigating me. 
 Allegedly. That's how it works, right? If I can't introduce something in court as evidence - it doesn't exist. Legally. 
 I'm afraid you have to. 
 You sent me a box of papers. 
 There's nothing in it, Willy. You haven't 'discovered' anything. Have you found the gun? Beat. 
 No. (Beat) Does it bother you that I call you Willy? 
 I'd like you to consider becoming my lawyer. I'll pay you. A lot of money. 
 Yeah, but I'm offering you a chance to get on the right side of this whole mess while you still can. 
 I think - on advice of counsel - I'll decline to answer that one. Willy studies him. Decides: it's an elaborate act.   Begins to put away his papers. 
 She was cheating, you know. Willy looks at him, slightly taken aback.   He didn't know; it wasn't in the confession. As he considers whether it makes a difference - he notices Crawford watching, enjoying. Willy shuts his briefcase. 
 Perhaps. But - maybe my so-called peers will look at me and see themselves. Betrayed. Frustrated. Humiliated. And you and I both know, Willy, that people have an infinite capacity for believing in their own innocence. 
 Not to mention the fact you have no actual evidence connecting me to the crime. Willy smiles, gets up. 
 My grandfather was an egg farmer. Willy stops, annoyed. 
 I used to candle eggs at his farm. You know what that is? You hold an egg up to a light, and look for imperfections. (beat) The first time I did it, he told me to put the ones that were cracked or flawed in a bucket - for the bakery. (beat) He came back an hour later and there were three hundred eggs in the bakery bucket. He asked me what the hell I was doing. (beat) I found a flaw in every single one. Thin places in the shell, minuscule cracks. (smiles) Look closely enough and you'll find everything has a weak spot...where it can break. 
 No, I've found yours. 
 You're a winner, Willy. Silence.   Willy pushes the call-button by the door. 
 Yes.   It is. 
 Make sure you sign the one with the devil in blood. It's not binding otherwise. He looks up, smiles. 
 You've got a trial Monday? 
 That gives you three days. You told me - and I told Bob - that you would be ready to hit the ground r- 
 Willy, some but acting as his own lawyer - he could drag it out for months! 
 No witnesses? Willy leans in, enjoying this part - analyzing, even admiring, Crawford's ploy: 
 You're gonna miss being in court, aren't you? He studies her, confident.    Gestures to the stacks of Armstead materials: 
 You don't go home for Thanksgiving? Slight beat. 
 If you want - you're welcome at mine. My family's. 
 I think it would be interesting. Beat. 
 Cool. Beat.   She leaves.    Willy doesn't go back to work right away. 
 We established a perimeter around the house and then waited for SWAT and the Negotiator. It was strictly by the book. 
 Maybe ten minutes. 
 Sorry. 
 Oh yeah. Neighbors, came out to look soon as it started. 
 Definitely not. 
 Mr. Crawford? Crawford looks up from his drawing. 
 What? 
 Your witness, Mr. Crawford. Crawford takes in the Uniform Cop. 
 No questions for this witness. Willy watches Crawford return diligently to his doodles. 
 DR. KANG - through the frontal cortex and the temporal lobe, coming to rest against the back of the skull. 
 DR. KANG It inflicted serious and irreparable injury. Willy nods, allowing the jury time on this. He checks a note- card, glances at Crawford. Considers his options. 
 Mr. Crawford, you might want to object. The witness can't know your state of mind. Crawford doesn't even look up from his drawing. 
 No thank you, your honor. Willy gives Judge Robinson an I-told-you-so shrug.     Turns to Dr. Kang. 
 I would say so, yes. 
 (low, still drawing) Objection. Everyone turns, surprised. 
 I'm sorry - Mr. Crawford, did you say something? Crawford sets aside his pen for the first time.   Looks up. 
 Yes.   I want to object. 
 On what grounds? 
 I don't know. 
 I don't know what you'd call it. They - it wasn't the first time, either, but - I don't know the legal term. 
 Why don't you just explain it in layman's terms. 
 Fucking the victim. Uproar in the court. 
 Mr. Crawford - 
 You said layman's terms - 
 I'm sorry - what would you call it - legally - when the officer who arrested you has been having sexual intercourse with your wife? Utter silence. Willy whirls a look at Nunally.     The cop meets his eyes - a deer in headlights. 
 I think it's objectionable - maybe I'm wrong. 
 Detective Nunally? Nunally looks down, silent.    Shaking his head. 
 Rob? 
 (Shrugs) My mistake. Sorry. 
 Mr. Crawford, I warned you about representing yourself. 
 What about the fact that it's true? I mean, isn't that the point here: to get to the truth? 
 Mr. Slocum - is it true? 
 Put him back on the witness stand if you don't believe me. 
 My Dick has evidence. The Judge and Willy look at Crawford like he's truly insane. 
 Excuse me? 
 My investigator. I call him Dick. I guess I should call him as a rebuttal 
 Mr. Slocum - your witness was intimate with the victim, and he assaulted the defendant during the arrest. 
 Actually, while obtaining my so-called "confession." Willy stares at Crawford, shaken.    Understanding the trap. 
 He's got a point. They were alone in the house. The confession is no good. 
 Is this a legal argument?       "Oh come on"? 
 In police custody. Arguably, in fear for his life. I'm sorry, Mr. Slocum - it's all 'fruit of the tainted tree.' We have to exclude all versions of the confession and any evidence collected by Lieutenant Nunally or by other police officers on the night he was present. 
 It's Biblical, isn't it?   The fruit and the tree and - 
 Yes, I do. And I don't like it. But it's done, so we have to deal with it. 
 Do you think I could go home today, your honor? With Thanksgiving around the corner - 
 Don't push it, Mr. Crawford. (Beat) What we're going to do is give Mr. Slocum a few days to regroup and come up with new evidence. If he doesn't - then you can go home. That's going to put us into the long weekend. We reconvene Monday morning. Willy just stands there: blind-sided, shell-shocked. Crawford smiles at him. 
 Well - you've gotta admire the cleverness of it. Willy begins cutting open the package as he talks: 
 (V.O.) Come on, Willy - give the devil his due. 
 Okay: then listen - I checked with Bob on how he wants you to handle this. 
 Well, he pretty much has to if he's gonna save any face. So here's the strategy: you let him. Willy cautiously lifts the box's flaps - pulls aside tissue paper - to reveal: A single eggshell.   Broken, empty. 
 (V.O.) Yeah, damage control. Stop getting your face on TV. As it is, I had to talk Bob down from cancelling your contract. 
 NIKKI (CONT'D) But we've got to move fast and get out from under. Otherwise, and I quote: "Stick a fork in this kid's ass and turn him over, he's done." 
 Willy: today, you got killed. The issue now is saving your new life. Willy can't take his eyes off Crawford's "gift." 
 You want to come out and get drunk? 
 All right.    Don't beat yourself up. 
 You don't look into who the victim was sleeping with? Willy burns, ashamed.       But unable to admit it. 
 But you still walked   it into court, Willy. We might not    have a case...but it didn't have to be   a public humiliation for this   office and the police department. Silence. 
 You're leaving anyway. 
 That's not new evidence. 
 It's not about you, Willy. 
 What is that - some kind of Oklahoma insult? 
 No. You won't. That's what I need to make sure you understand. I remove you now: I'm covered, I took some action. (Beat) If you go on with this, when you lose - blame has to come down. And it'll come down on you. I'll have to investigate you for improprieties, incompetence - anything I can. In public. I'll hang you out to dry. For the good of this office. Silence. 
 What? 
 All right.   It's yours. Willy nods.   Stubborn.    Scared. 
 SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES - - passing hand-held metal detectors along the furniture - - taking pictures down from the walls - - turning over mattresses - patting-down every item hanging in the closets - - wriggling into crawlspaces - poking into light fixtures recessed into the ceilings - - opening the air-conditioning unit, up on the roof - - ripping out Crawford's high-end home-theater system - - taking apart the Porsche in the garage. Willy paces the edges of the action, restless, edgy. 
 Huh? 
 And the tool shed, and the roof, and the H.V.A.C. ducts. 
 What did he do: rip open a door frame, hide the gun inside and re-plaster the wall before SWAT showed up? 
 We checked. (Beat) He might have passed it off to somebody, Willy. Had an accomplice, waiting, out the back. Willy shakes his head, grim.    Pacing. 
 I'm sure. Willy grimaces.   Fuming, relentless: 
 But then he carries her back there. Why? Willy walks along the path defined by the drops of blood: 
 Neighbor comes to the door. Willy nods, comes out - crosses to the foyer: 
 So everybody knows he's dangerous - and she might still be alive. 
 I'm sorry, Willy. Willy won't respond - because accepting the apology means admitting he's got nothing left. 
 (O.S.) What are you doing? Willy turns. A work-weary comes past him to check the I.V.'s and monitors. He's about Willy's age. 
 Who told you that? 
 Are you a member of the family? 
 This woman had a bullet plow through her brain. 
 You hear about Elvis and Aliens, too. All the time. 
 No. It's not impossible. But even if she did, she might not remember how to talk - let alone anything about how she was shot. 
 Are you just going to keep asking the same question in different ways until you hear the answer you want? Beat. 
 I knew I should have gone to law school. Willy watches the Resident go out. Then he looks back down at Jennifer. Listening to the machines. 
 Yes. Browses a wall of framed photos: Crawford at crash sites, universities, engineering test-labs - awards, certificates, articles from industry publications lauding Crawford as the Go-To-Guy for investigating mechanical failures of aircraft. 
 He was drinking. The past few weeks. 
 Do you want coffee.    He said I should ask. Willy turns, a little rattled.    Beat. 
 A month. Willy considers it.     He's got nothing else to try. 
 I'll have it for you Friday. 
 We're short-staffed tonight and tomorrow. Beat.   Seeing Willy's confusion: 
 Thanksgiving? Willy nods, trying to pretend he hasn't forgotten: 
 White or dark, Willy? 
 I'm off-duty, you can call me Lew. While Gardner piles turkey on a plate and passes it: 
 Well, Nikki's not. 
 Ha ha. (To Willy:) Burton's a counsel for Sierra Club, and Sandra's ACLU - so they use the holidays as an opportunity to give me a hard time, because I can buy and sell them. 
 We're not actually for sale, Nick. Nikki gives Willy a did-I-tell-you? look. 
 Nicole decided early-on that black sheep was the most effective role in which to distinguish herself from her siblings. 
 You know of any other family in America where the corporate lawyer who's going to make partner by thirty- five is the "black sheep"? 
 Well - you may be lost beyond recovery, but maybe we can still convince Willy that defending giant corporations against injured citizens is not the best use of his skills. 
 (Scolding mildly) I believe that phrase refers to banks. And it was coined by a thief. Beat.   Willy remains polite, but won't back down. 
 (To Willy) You don't have to do this. 
 Appearances can be deceiving, Willy. I grew up with eight brothers and sisters on a farm up in Fresno, and I promise you I saw my share of hard times. Willy considers his options. 
 You win. Beat.   Willy looks down, begins to eat again. 
 (Gently) Yes.    I see that. 
 I don't know if you will against the wife-shooter, though. The click of silverware. 
 Whoops. 
 Nice, Burton. Beat.   Willy looks up at Burton, steady.     Shrugs. 
 That looked pretty over. 
 Anyway, Willy's been taken off the case. 
 It might not seem like it now, but that's a blessing in disguise, Willy. Willy nods.   Beat.     To Nikki, uncomfortable: 
 What? 
 That...doesn't make any sense. Lobruto has to do some kind of damage control - 
 You are really stupid, did you know that? Willy doesn't know how to handle this; everyone else tries to be polite, eating and pretending not to notice. 
 Where? The Evidence Store?! Oh, that's right - they open early the day after Thanksgiving. You're gonna be fine! 
 Who cares?! Win what? 
 You wanted corporate, right?! You wanted to play in the big leagues?! 
 You go to all that trouble getting yourself in - and then you just pay no attention to wh- 
 Fine. 
 I need to talk with you. She gets up and walks out of the room. With an awkward glance around, Willy excuses himself and follows her. 
 Did you hear me, when I said Bob wanted you gone as soon as this thing broke?! Did you hear me say I went out on a limb to convince him - 
 And what if you don't? Willy has no answer. He doesn't think that way. And she sees that. She sees a young man from Oklahoma, in way over his head. Desperate to get through: 
 You don't get it at all, do you?! You pulled a stunt to get yourself this job. Fine: you're a hot-shot! (Beat) Wooton Sims does not need hot-shots. Because you don't win. The firm wins. Bob wins. 
 We told the man you're getting on a plane to Chicago, Tuesday. Painful silence. 
 All right. (Beat) Call if you want. He nods. Neither one moves. Judge Gardner enters cautiously from the dining room - breaking the spell. Nikki nods goodbye to Willy, and goes out quickly without meeting her father's eye. Awkward pause. 
 You know what nobody understands about certain kinds of underpaid public service work? Now and then you get to put a fucking stake in a bad guy's heart. We're not supposed to talk about that when we visit a third-grade class on Career Day, and it doesn't get you very far into the country-club locker room - but it's hard to beat when you actually get to do it. 
 Willy.     There's nothing here. Willy has barely slept all weekend. He shakes his head, reviewing the hotel surveillance tapes on a VCR/TV, stubborn. 
 Two months before he shot his wife, this guy had his investigator watching the cop at work. He knew exactly how it would go down - and he didn't leave any loose ends. 
 Had to see it for himself. 
 The unmade bed. Her panties. Man's gonna shoot his wife in the head, he needs to get himself all worked up. Willy stares at the grainy black-and-white figure emerging from the room, walking away down the corridor. Unconvinced: 
 Willy, go home. Tomorrow you go back into court and take your lumps - then you start your cushy new life, and you forget all about this one. (Hoping to get a smile:) And then you can lend me money and shit. Willy says nothing.    Runs the tape back and then slow-motions it forward again. Marchand goes out.    Leaving Willy alone, watching Crawford. 
 You okay? 
 Sure. 
 You found it? Beat. 
 Oh: this came for you. He takes it, and as she leaves, checks the return address: Wooton Sims. Willy grimaces, opens it. Inside are an airline ticket to Chicago - first class - and a handwritten note, on Wooton Sims stationery: We only win the favor of the Gods by making a sacrifice See you tomorrow - Nikki He stands in his empty office, considering the ticket and the note. 
 Yes. I was very concerned about Jennifer. She was a lovely woman. 
 That's correct. 
 Mr. Crawford? Crawford glances up at the Judge. Then at Gifford, as if he's just noticed him up there. Beat. Without getting up: 
 Did you see the guy run out the back door? 
 What..."guy"? 
 The other guy. The one who shot my wife. Did you see him run out the back of the house, carrying the gun? Willy closes his eyes.   Gifford grimaces. 
 I couldn't see the back of the house. (Trying to salvage it:) I believe...the police went around back when they arrived. 
 No further questions. Willy immediately stands: 
 I've also written a motion to dismiss. 
 On what grounds, Mr. Crawford? 
 The prosecutor doesn't have any actual evidence. 
 All of his witnesses are going to testify to the same facts: that my wife was shot and that I was, tragically, in the house at the time ...a witness - and, in a way, a victim myself. I'll stipulate to Mr. Slocum's entire witness list right now, a request a directed verdict or dismissal, per California versus Collier, 1982, and the Appellate court decision, v. Watrus, 486.19. Willy stares at Crawford, stunned. As the Judge reluctantly nods to the Bailiff to collect Crawford's pages and opens a law book: 
 Your legal skills seem to have improved over the long weekend, Mr. Crawford. While the Judge checks the citations, Crawford glances at Willy. Amused. Beat. Willy looks down - reaches into his briefcase, moves his cell-phone out from under some papers. To where he can get it easily. Looks back up at Crawford.   Smiles slightly. 
 Mr. Slocum? Willy and Crawford turn to the Judge. 
 Have you got any new evidence? Beat. 
 Mr. Slocum? Willy turns back to his briefcase.     He breathes.   Press the MENU button - selects SPEED DIAL. On the tiny screen, a list of names.    Selected: MONA/CELL. 
 Your honor? Can we signal the prosecutor from here on planet Earth? Willy's fingertip hovers over the cell phone keypad.       Press, and a path is chosen. Possibly for life. Next to the cell-phone, the ticket and the note.       See you tomorrow. Nunally sits forward.    Lobruto is watching intently. Willy doesn't move. 
 Mr. Slocum?     Now or never. Willy won't look up. Nunally stares, agonized. Willy grimaces slightly, as if he feels his soul burning up, turning to ash and blowing away - - nods, closing the cell phone, sliding it under Nikki's note. Shuts the briefcase. Looks at the Judge. 
 Motion to dismiss is granted. Uproar.   The Judge bangs his gavel - 
 Order! The jury is released, with our apologies - - practically shouting over the chaos - REPORTERS hastily heading for the doors, pulling out cell phones - 
 - and the Defendant is free to go. Crawford gives the Judge a gentlemanly bow of the head. Willy begins to pack his papers into the briefcase.   Refusing to look up. The Judge and the Bailiff might be saying other things, but no one is listening - SPECTATORS swarm up the aisles, out to the hallway - and the Court starts to close down. Crawford comes over to Willy, holds out a hand. Willy looks him in the eye.   Doesn't move.   Crawford shrugs. 
 Even a broken clock gets to be right twice a day. He winks, and heads up the aisle. As Willy watches Crawford go out the doors into a clamor of lenses, hand-held mikes, white-hot halogen glare and flashes - - he hears a buzzing noise. Looks down at his briefcase, moves the papers aside: his cell phone is vibrating. Willy stares at it, as if he'd forgotten the thing could be used for an incoming call. The caller ID reads: WOOTON SIMS.   He picks up - 
 Hey, you. 
 What did you think - I wasn't keeping tabs? 
 Listen: what do you say I take you out tonight and get you completely trashed? Tomorrow's just a travel da- - there's a gun shot outside the courtroom. Willy turns.    Shocked.    Screams and shouting in the corridor. 
 Yeah, I understand - 
 The normal reflex goes downward.   Up indicates brain trauma. 
 Sometimes we have to tape their eyes shut. They all move - they make sounds, they twitch. You think they're dreaming. But they're not. It's just what's left of the system, sending broken signals. 
 You're not authorized to order tes- 
 You get the paperwork, I'll do what I can. Willy nods, grateful. As the Resident heads out, Willy sits by Jennifer's bed - protective, intent. 
 Mr. Slocum. 
 This isn't like you at all. 
 You haven't got anything to gain. 
 Of course I have. (Leans in) The truth about me is, Willy...I'm really not very nice. Willy nods.    Concealing the ace up his sleeve. 
 Not an ounce of sympathy, Willy? (Beat) Imagine it - imagine she was yours. And you knew you were losing her. (beat) Imagine days. Weeks. Going through her desk. Her purse. Her closet. Alone. Staring at her clothes. Her shoes. Knowing this is what it will be like. After. (beat) Do you have any idea how hard it was to go on living - with her - every day, knowing? 
 There are many kinds of passion, Willy. 
 About...? 
 Who are you here to see? 
 I told him. 
 You don't work with anyone. 
 Jesus, Willy, wake up! It's over! What is wrong with you - it's first year law: that woman could fully recover and swear he shot her and it 
 You've got no standing. 
 What's the point, Willy? 
 Yeah. (Beat) What does that have to do with Wooton Sims? Willy just breathes.   Vulnerable like we have never seen him before. He looks across the big reception area, at Wooton and the team of associates. Some look away. 
 I warned you. 
 It's what it is. 
 I warned you. She starts for the elevators, Willy following - 
 Oh I'm supposed to lose my job over your problems?! 
 What do the doctors say? 
 What did the doctors say, Mr. Slocum? 
 I'm sorry. I have no probable cause to issue a court order against Mr. Crawford - and he's protected agai- 
 Have you been home at all today, Willy? 
 There's a court order out against you. 
 A restraining order. (Beat) You were at the hospital?       Talking to her doctors? Willy nods. Lobruto looks out at the confused, frantic young man - truly sorry that he can't help Willy fight his way back toward doing some good in this mess. 
 Crawford hired a lawyer this time. They saw Judge Gorman this afternoon. 
 You need to stay away from him, and his wife, and the hospital. He can have you arrested if you don't. (Beat) I'm sorry. (beat) I can't help you. I told you how it would go. Willy stares a second, slowly understanding his situation. 
 I don't see how. Willy grimaces.   But nods.   Turns away. 
 DR. LUNT Has Mrs. Crawford been prepared? 
 These have to be served in person. 
 You just missed her. 
 She just went on up. Willy struggles to control his emotions.     Looks down. 
 What? (Beat) The roof. (Beat) 
 Nothing but the best. We hear the surge of a jet engine - - as Willy runs out of the room. 
 DR. LUNT This orders him not to take her off life support! He's not! We can't stop the man from - 
 DR. LUNT You're talking about a phenomenally expensive delay, Mr. Slocum - when the man has every right to move his wife! 
 Less traffic. Willy looks at Crawford. 
 Get in your seat! 
 Who's doing something? Willy points to Crawford, who's just sitting there - 
 Get back in your goddamn seat! 
 Willy, I'm not doing anything. Everyone can see that. 
 I don't know - I'm - there's a - malfunction - - Willy whips around to look at Crawford, with fury in his glare: oh, you bastard. Crawford almost smiles. 
 I can't do anything with this, up here. The Pilot turns - steeply, Willy falling over, the Med Tech's supplies spilling - as the Med Tech hastily removes Jennifer's breathing tube and prepares to begin C.P.R. - 
 She's D.N.R. The Med Tech looks up - startled.     Confused. 
 Check. Willy watches, wide-eyed, as the Med Tech grabs up his paperwork, searching it - 
 She's Do Not Resuscitate. Willy turns on Crawford.   He shrugs. 
 It's in her living will. The Med Tech looks at Willy, paralyzed. 
 She's D.N.R.    She signed it. 
 No extraordinary measures. (Turns to Willy) Unless your court order specifies 
 
 You pushed it, Willy. We didn't have to be here. (Beat) But now you're my witness. You saw: I didn't touch anything, I didn't do anything. The machine went down. Anybody asks - you'll have to tell them. What you saw. (Beat) That's really kind of perfect, isn't it? Willy stares into his eyes. Cold.        Then he looks away.    Out the window, into the sun-glare. 
 You're not answering your phone. Beat. 
 Where are you headed? 
 I shouldn't have let it get so far out of control. (Beat) We all lose, Willy. 
 We just have to live with that, and keep fighting the good fight. 
 You belong in a courtroom. Willy packs, thinking about that.   Shakes his head. 
 You're a good lawyer. All this may have even made you a better lawyer. Don't waste it. Willy turns on him - angry, confused, bitter: 
 If it makes you feel any better - technically, you let a man get away with attempted murder. Willy doesn't respond.    Keeps packing. Lobruto goes out. After a moment, Willy stops.    Looking up.   Something turning over in his mind. 
 (Gently) Willy... Willy comes toward him - excited, insistent: 
 Willy - what happened to you, on the helicopter - we don't even know if we could prove - 
 A second indictment on the same incident? 
 All your evidence is still toxic.      The confession, the arrest - it's all still inadmissible. Willy grimaces.    Looks down.    Thinking, intense. 
 I'm sorry, Willy. It was a good idea, but - 
 How? Willy looks up at him.    Calm now. 
 Willy, you can't - 
 Don't do anything crazy. 
 These are from that thing at the courthouse, right? 
 Very dramatic. Willy crosses the room to the alarm panel on the wall. 
 Why?   You've already got one. 
 You're serious, aren't you. 
 (A smile dawning) Willy. You got religion, didn't you?! You care. That's...priceless. He laughs.   Willy keeps the gun aimed at him. 
 No, it's very sweet. Really. 
 Getting it like this: is that going to hold up in court? 
 It takes a very special kind of person to look right into someone's eyes and pull the trigger. It takes a unique kind of strength. 
 Yes.    I would. Willy cocks the gun. Crawford shakes his head.    Eyes on Willy. 
 I don't think so. Willy doesn't lower the gun.    But he doesn't pull the trigger, either. 
 No? 
 Then I'm in for a - rude awakening. Willy glares over the gun.     Crawford shrugs. 
 Tick-tock. Willy's angry.   Frustrated.    Trapped. His bluff called.     Refusing to back down. 
 Where did you even get yourself a gun? 
 Nunally's.    Really. Willy grimaces, over the gun still aimed at Crawford's face. 
 Willy.    Put it down. 
 Willy.   Think. And Willy does.   Hesitating. Distracted, by a thought. Lowering the gun slightly, looking at it - remembering: 
 The police will be here very soon. 
 If they see you with a gun in your hand - they're not likely to ask a lot of questions. 
 I gave it back. 
 (V.O.) The truth is I could have done it right in front of the man and he wouldn't have noticed. - ignoring Crawford behind him. 
 He had...other things on his mind. 
 You know, this is really kind of fun. It's like showing some caveman a cigarette lighter. Willy looks down at the gun in his hand.    Thoughtful. 
 It's still not evidence, Willy. There's no prints left by now. Nothing ties that gun to me. Willy smiles, slow...    Enjoying himself, at last. 
 Those what? Willy nods to himself, going to the wooden bowl of ball- bearings - selecting one, carrying it to the Rube Goldberg machine: 
 
